ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10746	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask all Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to a common principled and uniform search on the drafts of the law from the second to the 15th agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that they are invited to attend the meetings, Branislav Nedimović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Marija Obradović, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Tomislav Momirović, Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Saša Stevanovic, Slavica Savičić and Daniela Vazura, State Secretary, Maja Macužić Puzić, State Secretary, Enes Buhić, State Secretary, Darko Komnenic, Dr Dragan Demirović, Ana Tesić, Vojislav Lazarić and Snežana Karanović, Assistant Minister of Ministers, Enes Obskoković, Deputy Minister of Minister, Zveznjanović, Director of the Director of the Governing Board of the Governing Board of Management of Management of Management of the Generals and Directors of the Generals of the Generals of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Zagreb, Mr. I'm asking MPs' groups, as long as they haven't done it before, to report immediately. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint principled single search on points 2 to 15 of the agenda. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10747	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have a set of laws on finance, and in the first part of today's session, I will do my best to make sure that as long as possible until the finance minister arrives, I will give an introductory explanation as to the reasons for changing the law and concerning the budgetary system and concerning the various parts of the tax policy. In today's presentation, I will also refer to amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development and to the section concerning the amendment and addition of the Law on Employees in Autonomous Provinces and Units of Local Self-Government. Yesterday, the 2022-year budget of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, and accordingly, it is necessary that it be implemented to adopt a set of laws, which, on the other hand, lead to certain creations of new inflows, i.e. new expenditures, on the other hand. I'd like to move on to the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system. Amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act are necessary due to an announced increase in salaries foreseen by the 2022 budget. Very important, what was announced during 2021, to obtain its implementation through the Budget Law on the one hand, and on the other hand through the implementation of amendments to the Budgetary System Act. As promised, in 2022 we will raise pensions and salaries in the public sector, as well as minimum earnings. In this way, we continue to further improve the standard of living of Serbian citizens. This is doubtless possible for a simple reason because Serbia is financially consolidated, with its finances, on the other hand has achieved one of the highest growth rates in Europe, with a growth rate in 2021, which will surely go to 7% and with an expected growth rate for next year, of more than 4%. In 2022, an 8% salary increase was foreseen for healthcare workers, the Ministry of Defence, health care and care workers at social protection institutions, doctors, institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions and healthcare workers at the University of Sport and Medicine of the Republic of Serbia. For other budget users and users of compulsory social insurance organisations, an increase in salary of 7% is foreseen. I will remind you that President Aleksandar Vukic is also in his own time to present how much the average salary for 2021 is expected, and we have already met the 500-euro figure and now we are attacking the figure that we set for ourselves with the "Serbia 2025" programme for the purpose, which is that by the end of 2025, the average salary in the Republic of Serbia is 900 euros, and the pension between 420 and 440 euros. When it comes to public administration salaries, I would like to extract some data showing how much wages have increased by sectors since 2014 when we implemented fiscal consolidation. Salaries in healthcare institutions: medical doctor by 79.5% are higher salaries, nurses, record 91.1%, primary and secondary education institutions for 61.8%, higher education institutions for 47%, preschool institutions 61%, social protection institutions 60.2%, and culture institutions 54.3%. Undoubtedly, by observing this growth, you can see that the accent has been placed on health workers. They've been heroes for the last year and a half. They're heroes fighting the crown. We haven't finished this fight yet. We have good trends in combating birds and I hope that the health system, as it has so far endured us in terms of human potential, and also in terms of medical infrastructure, will resist this greatest monster that has ever found mankind since World War II. Just to remind you that from January 1, 2022, we are expected to increase pensions by 5.5% in accordance with the Swiss formula. I remind you that pensions have increased since 1 January of this year according to the Swiss formula by 5.9%. Otherwise, in the last few years, since 2014, when I return to this financial consolidation which is the cornerstone of all the reforms we have implemented and all the successful and valid increases and profits and pensions, which were the basis, pensions have increased on average by about 34%, including the 2020 increase mentioned. When this pension increase is added that all pensioners will receive 20,000 dinars of monetary support in February, there is a total increase of 11.2% of pensions in 2022 compared to all receipts made in 2021. For those 20,000 dinars, additional 34 billion dinars have been allocated for pensioners. From January 1st next year we are expected to increase and make minimum earnings by 9.4%, i.e. from the current 183.9 dinars per hour per digit that once seemed completely unreal, of 200 dinars. It's been transferred and now the minimum wage watch will be 201.2 dinars. This means that the average minimum profit for the first time will exceed 35,000 dinars, and remember that just 10 years ago, we had a minimum profit of 172 euros, and today it exceeds 300 euros. I know that many accountants will probably still not realize that 300 is larger than 172, but for that they will have to go back to elementary school to the teacher and go back to math class. I'm talking about those midwives who haven't realized that 300 is far greater than 172. The next regulation in front of us is the Proposal to amend and supplement the Law on corporate tax. Amendments to this law have been proposed to encourage the entry of rights. So we come to a higher level of this business video game of ours. This is the introduction of intellectual property rights as a non-financial role in the capital of a resident legal person, irrespective of whether it is a new legal person and in terms of capital injection or an increase in the capital of an existing legal person, so that the obligor who introduces those rights to the legal person's capital would be able to specify that the capital gain determined on that basis does not include in the basis of the corporate tax. This is a big deal for the Serbian economy. So far, they have mostly entered basic capital or money or rights or other things, which were mostly physically tangible. Here, for the first time, we are making a step and we are putting intellectual property into basic capital and thus encouraging the growth of the value of companies. Don't forget that without science, without intellectual knowledge in the 21st century, if everything is based on basic means of machines, which are about money, there's no business. These are the values of the 20th century, intellectual property, knowledge is the value of the 21st century, and it will increasingly come to terms. The main objectives of this proposed law are to encourage the application of innovation and the creation of their own products and services with the help of intellectual property owned. I don't need to remind you of IT and what kind of breakthrough we're making in this sector, and what value these companies dealing with IT can have if we regulate this matter and the enhanced technology transfer, the introduction of domestic technical and technological organisational and business innovations, in order to enable the competitiveness of the domestic economy to be increased. I'll use one example from the agrarians. Intellectual property, mobile solar panels that are one of the inventions that happened in Serbia. Most of the time, we've had fixed solar panels that were an alternative to electrical energy in the fields. With this invention, with this intellectual right, an increase in the value of companies that invented this, and not only here, but also in the sector of application of phytosanitary protection through drones, through the application of robots in agrarian, you are thus increasing the value of these companies that can achieve greater values on the market, and therefore there is traffic in these companies. The next regulation in front of us is the Proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. This legal solution envisions further fiscal redundancies. The increase of the non-taxable part of the profit allows for more favourable conditions of governance, disassembly of business entities and encourages employment, investment inflows and economic growth. What exactly is this about? In order to continue fiscal redundancies, an increase in the non-taxable amount of earnings has been proposed. So the part that I say is, when you don't have to pay taxes from 18,300 dinars to 19,300 dinars a month, while reducing the rate of contribution for the PIO to the employer's burden by 0.5%. This reduces the tax burden on the economy. In total, this is for the economy, a total savings of around 17.2 billion dinars. It's the income the state has given up, it's been given up by the economy in the hope that all of this will be used for development, for new investments, for an increase in profits. Thus, there is a reserve of an additional source of funds that is not budgetary, but exclusively a resource that remains an economy that can accumulate into its new investments. This is doubtless going to lead to new investments in the economy sector by using new technologies, new scientific and technical solutions, and this thing represents an amanet for the future to go on as long as our "jorgan" is and as long as we can extend to reduce the burden on the economy. That, you'll agree, we couldn't do a single moment if we didn't have fiscal consolidation, if we didn't have the economic growth that we have, that we don't have GDP for the first time over 52 billion euros. So these are all the things that made it possible to get rid of these things. The next thing is, i.e. the next regulation whose amendment we have proposed as Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, it is the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods. I think this law in public is going to come across an extraordinary approval. First of all, it is mostly the most common procedure for vehicles, passenger vehicles and other vehicles, among other things, which are between five and twenty years old and which have more than two thousand cubic metres, these will pay lower tax on registration. It is that registration is once a year, but if you save a little more than 100 euros, it's not that small for the home budget. When we translate it into something else, it's maybe, well a little bit more, one good ice TV or one credit war, depending on who's on the loan. I'm putting it down a little bit now, you won't mind, but what's it got to do with it? This will be true if, of course, it comes to the approval of your MPs, because you are the only one who owns to decide on it, we only suggest that this regulation applies from 1 January 2022 and this way the constitutional principle of taxation is implemented, relatively to the economic power of the obligor, given the market value of the car. If we want to enter, first of all, because of the MPs and for the public, to get into concrete things, the current tax on the use of motor vehicles paid for registration is reduced by all vehicles based on their age by 15, 25 or 40%. Now we're proposing an increase in the percentage of the decrease. How nice this sounds, but I hope everyone understands when we get to specific figures. I'll try to explain it to you on plastic examples. By category, for vehicles from five to eight years of age, tax cuts will be 25 instead of the current 15%. For vehicles from eight to ten years of reduction from 25% to 40% and for vehicles from 10 to 20 years of age, the reduction will be 65% instead of the existing 40%. On the other hand, for vehicles older than 20 years, the tax is now paid at 20% of the prescribed amount. The maximum reduction will have vehicles between 10 and 20 years of age that have over 2,000 cubic metres. If this applies to this year's taxes for vehicles, it is a decent number of vehicles in Serbia, 20,387 - 14.563 dinars will be paid instead of the current 34,950 dinars, less every year than next year, and for vehicles between 2,500 and 3,000 cubic metres, instead of 70,824 will be paid 41,314. So here is the reduction of 29.510 dinars. This can come out at 230 and 240 euros when it's recalculated. For vehicles over 3,000 cubic metres, 85,389 dinars or 500 euros will be paid at an annual level instead of 146,382 dinars, etc. We can go from category to category. I think that this proposed solution, I hope, will come to the approval of the first MPs in the voting day and later the public. I'm sorry, I've got a little more of these changes and some of the tax laws here, but we do have a time, I hope. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Taxes on Property, the amendments that are submitted before you are due to the need to simplify the procedure for the determination of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights in the case of transfers with subsequent useable motor vehicles and to postpone the time limit for the transfer of the account and the collection of this tax on the transfer of absolute rights and inheritance taxes and a gift from the Tax Administration to the units of local self-government so-called, as they are called, the LPA, the local tax administration, which, I can tell you, has recently been quite well-trained, quite well-trained, and I hope that on January 1, 2023, this will be implemented most often because of... I remember the time when I worked in the Tax Administration, the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and inheritance taxes and the gift is one less generous tax revenue, and it's perfectly normal when you have a certain amount of people to look at the highest tax forms as soon as possible to figure out how to fill the budget, because it's in the extreme sense and the basic function of the Tax Administration, and then if you don't have enough resources, then you leave these things to the end and then it's due to delays and therefore it's good to come to this transformation, to make this change easier to determine and tax on the transfer of absolute rights and taxes on inheritance and gift, and later transformations towards and transfer completely from the Tax Administration to local self-government units. The seventh proposal is an amendment to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. The proposed changes will lead to fiscal redundancy based on work, through reduction in the rate of contribution to compulsory social security, will allow for more favourable conditions for redundancies by discharging economic operators and will result in employment, first investment and economic growth. Something similar to the tax we were commenting on earlier. In order to continue fiscal decommissioning, income based on work is proposed to reduce the contribution rate for pension-inhabited insurance from 25.5% to 25%. This ensures a reduction in fiscal burden and this is a very important thing. As long as it is, I repeat, it will be as long as the state will be able to extend itself and give up the works of its income, and for the benefit of the economic operators and those who do. The next regulation in front of you today is the draft budget inspection law. One of the most important reasons for the adoption of the new law is the centralisation of the budgetary inspection, which has been laid down among other things as an obligation in negotiating Chapter 32 - financial supervision. Given that the Republic Budgetary Inspection covers jurisdiction and budgetary inspections by local authorities, which was most often not in a position to carry out due to limited capacity, the new law will allow for better capacity, better equipment, easier control and easier equalisation of conduct in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Centralisation of the budgetary inspection aims to increase the average number of controls carried out per inspector in addition to capacity building. The average number of controls carried out has been established... (Mihailo Jokic: Who chooses budget inspectors at the bar? )......................................................................................................... We'll do it now. Now let's get to it. I'm glad everyone's watching. It was found that the average number of controls carried out per inspector at the Republic level was 4,86 at AP level 3.33, and at the level of local self-government units was 2.65. According to projections since the start of the new law, i.e. from 1 January 2023 taken as a base year, in which the average number of controls per inspector would be five, the average number of controls was planned to increase by 40% in 2024 compared to the base year, which is that seven controls per inspector etc. In 2026, we would arrive at 11 inspections per inspector. The ninth proposal is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expropriation Act. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act, they further define the subject of expropriation users, shorten the time limits for the handling of competent authorities, resolve the question of illegal objects in expropriation and define the issue of administrative transfer. The amendment determines that the object of expropriation can be all forms of property, including real estate in public property, which has not been the case so far. In fact, so far, administrative and judicial practice has come to the conclusion that the real estate in public property must be subject to expropriation, not administrative transfer, as it has been so far, which would most often be done without compensation as wrongly interpreted by Article 70 of the Law. It also further defines the concept of users of expropriation, as well as a person who can acquire property rights. The proposed amendments shorten the time limits for the conduct of a body whose competence is to act upon a request for public interest and to extend the basis for establishing public interest. In addition, it has proved justified that the public interest is established in the case of reconstruction and adaptation of an existing facility, not only in the case of its construction, and in the case where the implementation of the project is designed to build objects of importance for the Republic of Serbia when the project is part of an interstate agreement. We had many railway corridors where we needed to expropriate, and it was a reconstruction. It wasn't about building, and we were getting into trouble. Nis-Dimitrovgrad, our biggest problem was this because you have a bunch of objects on the road, which were once in social property, went through privatisation, private property, and now you get into trouble because you can't easily get to those spaces, these plots that are necessary for the reconstruction and adaptation of certain objects. Shorter deadlines shall be set for the conduct of the Authority responsible for deciding upon the requirements for expropriation and after the appeal made. Now, since he will be present in the later part of the debate and the finance minister, he will talk a little more about the Customs Law and some international agreements, I would refer to a part concerning the amendment of the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development. Amendments to the Agricultural and Rural Development Act have several basic objectives. The first goal is to introduce the so-called It's agrarian. E agrar allows us, since we are in the 21st century, we have entered the digitalization process, the crown has shown us that many things can be done much faster, that we can introduce an electronic system for the application of subsidies, most of the subsidies, it will also facilitate the work of the Agrarian Payments Administration, facilitate the work of the Treasury Administration, which is an auxiliary body in the payment of subsidies, that people can at any time inform themselves of the state of their claim because everyone will have their own identification number, enter their own subject and be able to see what state it is in and when they will be charged. This achieves greater transparency, and I think this will significantly increase confidence in this system of pay subsidies in the Republic of Serbia. In addition, we have one more thing about amending the Agricultural and Rural Development Act is the introduction of amendments concerning IPARD and the implementation of IPARD 2, which is close to the end, but IPARDA 3, which will be signed by the end of December by a new 280m euro of European money that will enter Serbia for farmers, for the purchase of their basic assets and tractors and machines and objects and rural tourism and all that is necessary, and this time and rural infrastructure, we will have this for the first time, in IPADU 3. to enable the first person who approves IPARD funds to be paid an advance of 50% of the approved funds, and finally to realize the investment another 50%. This will achieve two effects. The first effect is to speed up the investment system and help the agricultural producer enter the IPARD more easily, and on the other hand to make the full amount of funds agreed on under the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU faster. In addition, as regards the time limits for the acceleration of IPARD incentives, due to the need to reduce the time of processing requirements, if one requirement contains a formal deficiency which prevents the handling of the IPARD may be completed within a period of not less than eight days and not longer than 30 days. What do these accomplish? We have so far had the situation based on the General Administrative Procedure Act, this will be a lex specialis in relation to these things, that we could be endlessly supplemented and that someone brings a blank request and that every 15 minutes complements their request and there is never an end and you never know when one item is finished or not, and that allowed our General Administrative Procedure Act. With IPARD, we are speeding up this whole process and I hope that in the future we will be able to do that in other ways. In addition to e-agrarians, the amendments to the law provide for the establishment of an IACS system for the control of payments in agriculture and rural development, giving the Agrarian Payments Authority the basis for the competence of establishing that system. Also, provisions relating to the Elpis system have been specified to identify land parcels. Why is this Elpis system very important? So far, subsidies have been given per hectare based on land ownership, or what is written in the catastro. Not by nature the owner of the land and the farmer, and this is a subsidy for agriculture, not for the owners of the land, the owners of the agricultural land. We had a large number of persons who were exercising their right, and later gave their agricultural land to the so-called so-called land. And then they took both the arena and the subsidies for agriculture. This introduction of Elpis will enable us, it is an electronic system, that anyone, whether owned by the country or in a lease contract, can receive land subsidies over which they make their agricultural production and thus direct subsidies will go to agriculture. We'll avoid these situations so that the owners of the land, the agricultural land, take it. Why is that so important? We, when we want to introduce a professional agricultural producer now and when we want to introduce so-called. Blue diesel, we can't determine in a situation like this, because we'd have to grant subsidies to those who are agricultural land based only on land ownership, which are not agricultural. You will agree that this cannot be applied, and that is why we need these interventions to be able to work in this field in a quality way in the future no matter who runs this sector tomorrow where there is an adequate way to solve things quickly. And, last rule I'd like to say, it concerns the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employees in Autonomous Provinces, units of local self-government. Significant changes have been proposed in the area of regulating the working relationship of employees in these bodies. The most significant changes relate to the start of the establishment of the system of competences needed for the work of officials in those bodies, which means that all human resource management processes, starting with human resources planning, the establishment of a working relationship, the course of the working age, are worth these competences according to these professional abilities, so that appropriate benefits can be achieved for employees. Amendments to this Law of Competence shall be defined as a mandatory part of the content of the Regulation on Organisation and Systematization of Jobs and shall prescribe the obligations of compliance of these Regulations with competences within nine months of the entry into force of this Act. When we talk like this in this stupid legal language, someone's gonna think about what they're doing again. This applies exclusively to employees working in units of local self-government, autonomous province because this system of competence has been introduced for civil servants, but for these categories of employees it has not been and this way a single system of staff management will be introduced throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course there will be a lot of resistance, but we can't get a good civil servant unless we have enough criteria to be able to value him throughout his entire working life. I'd like to brief you on these bill proposals. In the course of the debate, we will also try to support these amendments to the law, which will later be here, to answer all the necessary questions, and I hope that in the day of voting, they will support these changes of the law because they will certainly lead to acceleration and investment, greater profits, reduction of burdens on the economy, introduction of innovation, but also to the benefit of agricultural producers. Thank you. I would ask the parliamentary groups to make a positive statement in the voting day on these drafts of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10748	Thank you. The Committee's rapporteurs, Vice-President of the National Assembly, and President of the Committee on European Integration, Elvira Kovac, hold the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10749	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Committee on European Integration, I will talk about the only proposal the Honorable Minister has not spoken of, which is the Customs Law. The current Customs Law was adopted at the end of 2018, in 2019 and at the end of last 2020, and this current Customs Law has been largely in line with EU customs law, which entered into force on 30 October 2013, and has been applicable since 1 May 2016. However, we must bear in mind that EU Customs Law has been amended and amended in the meantime, and there is certainly a obligation to bring our domestic legislation into line with EU legislation. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed new amendments to the Customs Act, which further aligns the rules in order to specify certain provisions of the law, including appropriate changes in technical nature. This is an interesting situation, and now we are not talking about the directives that we are harmonising with, as this matter of customs is regulated in the regulations that are directly transposed. As we heard, at Monday's session of the European Integration Committee, it is known that all EU Member States are part of the EU Customs Union and all of them must comply with the same customs rules and procedures. This requires harmonisation of legislation, adequate implementation capacity, so to implement and implement, as well as access to common computerised customs systems. This matter is, when we talk about chapters, that is. Chapter 29 - Customs Union and, as known, this chapter has been opened by the Republic of Serbia, today is a very current issue of the latest reports of the European Commission. The report says on the issue of the Customs Union and specifically this chapter that Serbia is at a good level of preparation in this area of the Customs Union, which is an extremely good assessment, that, compared with last year, limited progress has been made by the adoption of amendments to the Customs Act and the Customs Service Act, that unfortunately, no progress has been made in upgrading the system of customs processing and development of the IT system of national customs customs duties, mainly due to the pandemic that has hit us all, and that the Republic of Serbia needs in particular to further upgrade the customs system of processing, integration of risk management, and further development of the IT system of national customs services, in order to allow its integration with the EU system. As I said, the customs legislation of the Republic of Serbia is largely in line with the EU's legal assets. Some places even mention an incredible percentage of 97%. Amendments to the Customs Act and the Customs Service Act, adopted at the end of last year in November 2020, aimed at improving the effectiveness of the implementation of customs legislation. As is known, the Republic of Serbia is signatories and the Convention on a common transit procedure and implements EU rules on transit movements. The rules on the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the customs procedure are also largely in line with EU legal assets, however, legal regulations relating to cultural goods, free zones and security aspects still need to be in line with the EU legal assets, since in practice the fees for goods vehicles entering customs terminals are still charged to meet customs obligations, which is simply not in line with our obligations, with the obligations of the Republic of Serbia from the SAA, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but are commended to be working on strengthening the risk management system. It is important to stress that the Republic of Serbia is conducting a consistent risk analysis, both before and before arrival, including food safety, and all in line with the EU Customs Code. In the context of the outbreak of Kovid's pandemic - 19 seven border crossings with neighbouring countries are determined to be border crossings on the green corridor, which is extremely significant, in order to ensure the smooth and priority passage of basic goods. You therefore certainly have the support of the European Integration Committee regarding customs laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10750	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. The word has a member of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Committee's rapporteur, Djordje Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10751	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable ministers with associates, the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government at the previous session supported amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, and you spoke of it. The main newspapers are that we will find a way through these changes of laws to our agricultural producers and users of IPARD funds to enable the advance payment of subsidies. In this way, a much wider circle of faces gets the opportunity to apply for these subsidies, because you will have the opportunity for everyone who wants to apply to receive up to 50% of the money immediately, of course, with a bank guarantee, and for the realisation of the investment to get the rest of that money. It is certainly an important newspaper for all our citizens, especially farmers, people who want to deal with agriculture, rural tourism. In this way, the state shows that it finds ways to give as much incentives as possible when it comes to agriculture itself. The theme of agriculture is always current in Serbia. Yesterday you had a chance to talk about this on one show, 4.2 billion dollars was our country's exports in 2020 when it came to food products, and the comparisons, 10 years ago only two billion dollars was exporting our agriculture abroad. And by these mathematically expressed exact numbers you can see how much our country has progressed from 2012 to today. So we have doubled the amount of our agricultural products, in all ways we help, and through these incentives and through these measures that we bring here, our agriculture, our domestic farmer. This assembly of the National Assembly played an important role not long ago when we passed the Law on the regulation of the agricultural market. In this way we adopted a roof law that served and as a tool for our Ministry of Agriculture that in all those situations when the devaluation of market prices occurs, the ministry can react without delay and help to increase prices, i.e. when, say, the price falls below the purchase, the Ministry can react and help in these situations. There have been cases of tomatoes, the ransom price of milk, etc. So, the ministry now has much better opportunities and tools to take care of the domestic farmer. And not only is that the case now, but for ten years this government has budgets that increase every year when it comes to agriculture. This year, the prime minister spoke of it yesterday, as much as 62 billion will be the budget for our agriculture. Compared to ten years ago and up to ten times the amount, and compared to the previous year, we increased the amount for agriculture 20%. So these are facts and mathematically easy to express in numbers. When you have the opportunity to raise your budget, when you have the opportunity to adopt development budgets, that's how all citizens feel better. The budget was adopted yesterday, it's one development budget, 486 billion will go into capital projects, into investments, into infrastructure. Yesterday we talked about it here - 1,200 km of new highways, fast traffic, railways, will start already this year, and next year all these investments continue. There is no local community in Serbia, no settlement, no city, village, that no huge funds are invested from the state level. In 2022, it was also a year of accelerated development, as it was in 2021. The prime minister said, when we look back three years of cumulative growth, we will have more growth than most EU countries. And Mr. Sinisha Mali spoke of it. In this way we show that even in years of crisis, when the belt is tightened, when all the states are watching them make savings, when there are layoffs everywhere, we show that we are not only maintaining the level of investment but even raising the level of participation of investments in our budget. The budget for next year is recordable, both by the amount of capital projects and by the fact that we will have and create the opportunity to raise further salaries and pensions. To remind Serbian citizens that since January we will have an increase in wages, an increase in pensions by the Swiss model, we will have one-time assistance for our pensioners and thus the state shows how it really fights all those things that are important to the citizens of Serbia. The president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, announced about half an hour ago that despite all this we are doing well for agriculture and agriculture and when it comes to infrastructure projects, we are still thinking about what is most important, and that is certainly our nature. The state, and that's what the president said just before, will give a higher amount for the first child, instead of 100,000 we will give 300,000 dinars for the first child. It is certainly an important thing for all people and couples who want to have a child and thus the state helps them in that case. Of course, this topic is not strictly related to economic stability, we know well that in those richest Belgrade municipalities, usually the smallest birthplace, and where you have poorer municipalities in the interior of Serbia is greater talent. But then again, that's how the state shows it will, it can also want to invest in what's most important. Also, the president announced an increase in the amount for the second and third children, and this will be a drastic increase compared to what we have today. So, I say once again, all of what this country is doing, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, of course all of these laws that we are adopting here are aimed at improving the standard of living of all Serbian citizens. We also think about infrastructure, we also think about investing in our agriculture, of course we think first and foremost about our nationality and we invest increasing amounts of money in all that is needed for the citizens of Serbia. When we hear, I say, on this side of the opposition spectrum, that they tell us that something was better than it is today, we often hear some statements from people who were in power, such as Nikezic and the company Gilasova, who got rich while they were in power, they say that some parameters were better. There's no parameter that anything was better than it was today. We've raised the budgets up to ten times, 20 times the budget for the military, for health care is 20 times the budget, we've increased all those parameters that we can track since highway construction, since they built 30 kilometers in their mandate, today we have 350 kilometers done and started 1,200 kilometers. When they speak, they say: treat your children with SMS messages. Since they're not ashamed, in 2012, we sent eight children to be treated. The president of the state said this year, so the previous over 150 children are being sent abroad for treatment. There's not a single parameter that was better than it was today. We have improved everything, we are still trying and, of course, that the budget that is ahead of us and that we adopted yesterday is developmental and that the citizens of Serbia will continue to feel better because this is important, it is important that you show the citizens that you think about them and thus the SNS returns for the trust that citizens give us in the elections through concrete results and we will, of course, continue to do so. Once again, we will support these amendments and additions to the laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10752	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Justice Committee. The word has the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10753	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, we on the committee on Monday, November 22nd, adopted 11 agenda points from today's session, which are in fact directly related to the budget for the following year. When we look at the Budgetary System Act, it not only speaks about the increase in salary in the next year of 7% or 8% for different categories, or 7.3% in the average amount, it is talking about the legal basis for the single comprehensive salary account, the new software "Iskra" which the Ministry of Finance wants to establish. Since we have exactly how many people work in the sector, they want the system to be established in a certain way and it is unique when it comes to the billing of salaries and at any moment anyone who is employed will know how simple the funds are drawn from the budget. The law on corporate income tax, as well as the Income Tax Act, are currently talking about the fact that we have incentives, but we also have a part relating to the redundancy of the economy when it comes to hiring new, unemployed persons, when it comes to hiring young people and when it comes to self-employment, when it comes to young people who bring in, they bring in their business agencies or companies patents, innovation. That's why the state wants to help them in a certain way. There you have a really visible discharge in the next two, three years, when it comes to paying taxes and contributions, and also to the part relating to the discharge of employers, when it comes to the law on compulsory social security. We said a 0.5% discharge. That's what actually is part of next year's budget. The most important law, I think, has caused a very high public interest, is one that relates to the use, carrying and availability of property. The majority of the discharge, i.e. the release of citizens of Serbia, is for those who own motor vehicles aged 13 to 20. The rates of relaxation of payments, i.e. the tax reduction that will be paid in the registration of vehicles themselves, ranged from 25% to 40%. I think it also refers to vehicles over 2,000 cubic metres, which I think is a big benefit for citizens who have been asking for years to find a model that the state will help solve this problem. I must say that older vehicles than 20 years of age and due to the Green Agenda, and because of environmental science, will not be released from payment. So they're not going to have any subsidies on registration, because it's just going to be that vehicles that are large pollutants will simply have to bear financial costs. When we talk about the Expropriation Act, I don't think it's explained enough in public, and I think that today and now, and when the Finance Minister comes, it's clear to the public that this law doesn't essentially change anything from the law that existed before. When a public interest is established, when you have international contracts, when you want to build a road, a bridge, the dam simply comes into a situation as a state that with the owners of private parcels you have to sort out the expropriation. The state has to pay off those owners. So far, these procedures have been very long, and by the very fact that you have had 30, 60, 90 days of possibility of appeal. Second, a large number of co-owners on the plot. The state has indeed carried on in a certain way that projects of international character, when you withdraw certain financial resources to build roads, bridges and complete infrastructure, have stalled precisely because of this expropriation process. For this, as a state, we paid a certain kind of interest and penalty because we did not withdraw funds from international banking institutions at a certain time. Therefore, the state only wants to comply with international agreements within the time limit, to establish public interest, and to make these cases that have been experienced and case law easier for people who are co-owners on the plot to complete this process earlier. You know that many in the parcels of people who are co-owners live abroad, many have died and have to wait and leaven procedures and that it lasts. The state has now decided to help, to cut deadlines. It means that within 15 days, the Department of Construction has to declare that the Ministry of Finance has 30 days to declare itself. Thus, all proceedings are shortened, which is also in the interest of those people involved in the expropriation process, who are due to receive money from the state for parcels through which the infrastructure will pass. Therefore, no material effects of this law exist. Everything is the same as before, only deadlines are reduced to make this whole procedure more effective. On the other hand, those who were rallying here yesterday tried to pull some political points, tied it to a referendum story, with Rio Tint, which simply doesn't exist. On the other hand, when we talk about KfW and the Republic of Serbia, which was one of the points of the agenda today on the board, I must say that KfW Bank with a contract with Serbia has allowed the opening of transfer stations for solid waste management. The town of Vranje and the town of Kruševac have entered these projects into the realization of such important projects. Therefore, the laws we had at the board's session and today we have at the tide are primarily laws that directly affect the lives of Serbian citizens through direct incomes and effects relating to the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the following year, and these laws, such as the state's obligations in relation to expropriation, customs laws that we had the opportunity to hear, which facilitate the simple process of functioning and customs and the release from customs fees for technologically harmonised products and the part relating to our commitments to the IMF, where we will have the opportunity to withdraw 890m euros as certain loans to repay those expensive loans that were owed by the government which destroyed Serbia's economy by 2012, are in fact indirect benefits that citizens will have. The inspection, I end up, which is a budget inspection, a new law, should also make life easier for us, because this law has established the obligation that all budgetary inspectors will now respond at a state level, at a republican level, and we will oblige them that 11 cases a year every inspector has to do. So far, it's been three to five cases a year. So the state wants a more efficient state administration, more efficient work by the executive government, to establish greater financial discipline, better budgeting, realisation of better infrastructure projects, because we want Serbia to grow and develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10754	Thank you. The word is made by the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10755	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as president of the People's Peasant Party and chairman of the Committee, I must, in my opinion, thank the Government in a certain way for the proposal and the MPs who voted for the adoption of the entire budget in the framework of the budget and the division of 24 Ministry of Agriculture, especially in the part concerning incentives that have grown to 50.6 billion this year. I have to compare it to 2012 and say that the ministry's budget, which was covered by the Ministry of Agriculture and Trade, was 30% lower for the ministry by two ministries than it was intended for the Ministry of Agriculture only in 2022. Let me remind you that during the Democratic Party, probably because of the transgea of trade and various export-export influences on agriculture, the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture was united, and under the authority of the great Dusan Petrovic, whose time of rule was slaughtered or missing 200 thousand cows, which was a true tie at the time. Therefore, this affected, given the reduction in the number of throats, the number of cavities, or the production of beef. When we compare 2012 incentives that concerned only agriculture, incentives that year, and especially those who look at us to remember it well, they were 19.9 billion. That's the story you can hear about how, during the time, whenever the DS incentives were far bigger than they are now and they amounted to 12,000 dinars per hectare, which was a fact, it was so approved, but it wasn't paid. Then in 2013 and 2014, because of their debts for non-commercial holdings and for non-payment per hectare, we had to pay 10.2 billion in public debt, to pay their obligations that they had issued at the level of 19.9 billion, but they didn't pay it either. Now, when you compare 2012 and encourage in agriculture of 19.9 billion with incentives for 2022, they are 50.6 billion. That's a 270 percent increase. So, the criticism that the agrarian budget is reportedly reduced, that incentives are reduced absolutely do not stand. The redistribution was made in favour of intensive production, i.e. for the benefit of livestock farming, the raising of new plantations, because during their reign, only Mr. Zoran Zivkovic and some loved ones could have been raised under subsidies, etc., while today everyone who submitted the requirements in one way or another is being respected. I would like to point out that the National Assembly, given the number of calls we receive for incentives, asks only in relation to the amount of funds. So, what my fellow MPs voted yesterday, along with my smallness, 50.6 billion, means that the Assembly has determined that these 50.6 billion belong to agriculture and farmers, and later the rules and regulations solve redistribution. So I suggest that, in time, if they have any objections, before the budget is passed, before the rules are passed, they suggest to the Minister of Agriculture, the Secretary of State, the assistants, the people employed by the Ministry of Agriculture, in which sense they think they need to increase incentives for certain areas. And let me also tell you about the milk premium, which was raised to 10 in Serbia from seven dinars, to remind you also that you could never get, say, 125,000 dinars for a breeding heifer, or for a high-quality breeding throat. You could never win for a sheep, say, 200 euros, a feeder of 200 euros, for the purchase of breeding material, you could never get that money, for a cow and a calf, it was a mental noun to get 45,000. It's the supply of breeding heifers. Later when they're abducted, when they become cows, a year old cow, a calf, 45,000 dinars, and for a cow you have 25,000 dinars. If we take that one cow can have 7,000 liters of milk, but we take the average of 5,000, Serbia buys about 800 million liters, and produces over a billion and a half, if you take one cow to give 5,000 liters of milk, only on the basis of the throat you get five dinars per litre of milk, plus a premium that doesn't exist in Europe, of 10 dinars per litre, that's 15 dinars. If you take the price together with a premium and a Greek subsidy of 40 dinars or slightly higher, you get 35% of the country's share in the price of milk. So it's very difficult to produce milk, but besides these livestock measures, every farmer who owns agricultural land from whom he feeds his throat also has all the measures that warlords have, therefore, and per hectare for the purchase of machinery, plus for the purchase of equipment on farms. Ladies and gentlemen, not all the Republic gives. So, for the plantings of vineyards, fruit, etc., nothing until 2012, and any objections have been unfounded, and I believe that when we enter the European Union and before we enter the European Union, by the development of the economy, the agrarian budget of the subsidy will be increasing and the amount of 50.6 billion will be exceeded by the next year. But the objections don't stand. We have worked patiently on this over the past ten years, and if we join the European Union the incentives our farmers receive will be between a billion and a billion euros on an annual basis. I believe that our farmers who are far more resourceful, because the past period has forced them to do so, are very quickly overreached by the quality and quantity of production of European farmers. That's why my party's priority is to see the ruling coalition, to join the European Union. The biggest winner will be agriculture and farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10756	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the mandated representative of Parliament's Justice and Reconciliation Party – United Peasant Party National MP Misala Pramenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10757	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, as we had the opportunity to hear, today there is a really broad spectrum of laws in different areas that are well concerned with the property rights of citizens, and yet a reflection or impact of budgeting for 2022, and this budget that can be characterised as a developmental one, especially because of the fact that it is being brought in the pandemic, when the global crisis is present and in much stronger and more developed countries. The way financial resources are consolidated in this way, the country itself's financial opportunities are commendable. In fact, the direct budget is the reason for the adoption of certain laws, such as the Law on Budgets, the Tax Act, etc., in order to close the budget year in some ways and start a new one fully prepared. On the other hand, we see that there are also completely new legal solutions, such as the Law on Budgetary Inspection, which will give concrete effects, positively, regarding the organisation of public administration, and which we hope will most hopefully reflect on the local communities themselves. With regard to the amendments and additions to the law itself, I would first refer to amendments and additions to the Agriculture and Rural Development Act. We have had many opportunities to hear from the minister and rapporteur of the committee, but I believe that this topic is extremely important and that, in fact, one of the basic strategic directions for the development of the Republic of Serbia is certainly the development of agriculture and rural development as well. On the other hand, it is one of the biggest development opportunities that should certainly be used, and on the other hand, as we hear, the adoption of a new budget for 2022 will do much to speed up, hopefully, the life of specific agricultural producers in the country, but also have reflections on society as a whole. With regard to the very objective of passing laws, we can certainly say that some general assessment of this law is, in fact, that it represents the creation of a legal basis for implementing the IPARD programme in the Republic of Serbia, which on the other hand will allow competition for funds from pre-accession European Union funds that are very important and which should also be an example for us in this regard as regards the development and development of agriculture itself and the general affirmation of life in the country. This legislative solution also provides for a number of new concrete mechanisms that will make life in the country easier for themselves, but also for better quality work and co-operation with agricultural producers. Therefore, in line with the current digitisation in all fields, it was necessary to certainly work on the field of digitisation and modernisation of correspondence and bureaucracy in terms of agriculture itself. This came up with a new E-agrar software solution, which in the future will have a very significant impact on life and growth, primarily agricultural producers, because this software solution will actually be much easier in terms of concrete procedures. For example, this software solution will contain a register of agricultural holdings, which means that directly, electronically, agricultural producers can register their agricultural land, on the other hand, they can restore agricultural land every year. In addition, at any moment they may have access to their case, case, and information about the ownership, and only one click literally leads to the necessary information. On the other hand, we hope that this system will certainly affect transparency, with regard to subsidies granted to agricultural producers, but on the other hand, and with regard to the end-user himself, i.e. the specific agricultural producer, in terms of the procedure, which was once extremely difficult and sometimes even, in certain segments, to be late for the very payment of subsidies. We believe that this solution will also prevent some of the abuses that we have so far, perhaps in terms of intermediaries, which were made available to farmers themselves, and perhaps they weren't actually that up-to-date or that they were working to help the farmers themselves. What some conclusion might be, in fact, the question is whether agricultural producers are actually trained in terms of information about the literacy and use of these modern means of communication, which will certainly be present through the E-Agrar. We see that this legal solution and this has been taken into account and that it is likely that some sublegal acts will actually be arranged by the organisation on the ground, through the establishment of different offices, as I could understand from the proposed proposal, through the establishment of different committees, in fact, places where agricultural producers can directly address and get the necessary help and logistics. This is very important in terms of transparency and more efficient work in the field. On the other hand, the issue of life in the country, the organisation of life in the country, the issue of general affirmation and the view of the country, by society, is one of the essential issues and this issue needs to be approached most seriously. The quality of life in the city, in urban areas, will depend largely on the organisation of life in the country, which specifically means that other than these legal solutions, which are extremely good, certainly all forces, as shown, we should continue and work to improve the conditions for people living in the country. In this sense, in order to make someone an attractive life in the country, all basic living conditions, such as good traffic infrastructure, such as good social services, health services, etc., must be ensured. In this field, you really need to work to spot the smaller gap between life in the country and in the city. On the other hand, living in the country with regard to the attractiveness of young people or young couples is something to pay particular attention to, in terms of opportunities and desire to stay on their property, unlike when deciding to leave their estates, to come to live in the city, where they may be tenants, where they will live on a single salary, and perhaps barely make ends meet. With regard to subsidies and state support on this issue, it could also be possible to point and gain concrete effects in this field. The issue of rural areas that can be considered the jewel of this country, among other things, I would mention the question of the Cave High as parts of the untouched nature, in terms of healthy climate, healthy agricultural products, meat products, dairy and so on, it seems to me that a still insufficiently used resource in terms of the possibilities actually provided by this part, which is located in the territory of the Sanjah municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. The issue, the country's relations are very important, but on the other hand, the issue of local self-government, i.e. local self-government units and those who have been leading units of local self-government for years, actually bear a very large responsibility in terms of affirmation and the desire to speed up life in these areas. For example, we've been free to say over the past decades we've had a series of promises regarding the affirmation of the cave, especially that part on the territory of the tutina municipality, with the promise of some industrial zones and various other projects of which unfortunately nothing has happened to this day. So we have a power that's constantly 30 years suffocating that space. When potential investors from the diaspora appear or simply people who want to invest, they seek to defuse their intentions in every way and thus block development. On the other hand, part of the Cave located in the shadow community's territory, for example in the last little over a year, shows when you have local authority, which is domestically oriented, which takes care of resources and possibilities and which, apart from all the loans and debts from the previous period, seeks to enable citizens and residents of the municipality themselves, to exhaust every possible resource, then you immediately see progress in that segment. In particular, several days before the Municipality of Sjenica, an agreement was signed with the Ministry of the Village on the support of cooperatives as an effective and useful way of organising agricultural producers, in addition to this budget for the construction and reconstruction of primary schools in Sjenica, it is an indication that if people who carry important functions at the level of local self-government go with requests to the republican authorities, then what result can be achieved. I would further refer to the issue of amending and supplementing the Tax Act on the use of holding and bearing goods. This is an extremely important legal solution and it seems to me that the effects in the public are precisely very positive and come from a simple fact that this legal solution will reduce the tax on the use of motor vehicles, specifically passenger vehicles, and that will be very significant in the registration of a vehicle where, based on age and motorcycle cubicity, it reduces a significant tax on older vehicles and vehicles that have stronger cubicity. This solution proposes reducing taxes on cars, engine volume over two thousand cubic metres, which is completely justified and represents a very good solution. The current tax burden, for example, increases exponentially when the engine volume goes over two thousand cubic metres, which has no justification, because vehicles of newer production are very often achieved with a smaller cubicity stronger engine power, which means that from a technological point of view this previous solution has been somewhat overcome and the new one will certainly give and show concrete results. What might as well be a form of, say, suggestions on the adoption of this law is the following thing, that vehicles from two thousand to two thousand and five hundred cubic ccs may need to think about it in some subsequent legal solutions, that they should not be taxed exponentially, because the value of these vehicles is not much higher than vehicles from 1600 to 2000 ccs. Maybe you could think about it that way, so instead of five times that there might be an increase, that somewhere compromise might be three times. The next legal solution I will refer to is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employees in Autonomous Provinces and Units of Local Self-Government. So this is certainly about the public administration reform strategy in the Republic of Serbia that should contribute to improving the legal and organisational framework, i.e. capacity and staff. We see, therefore, that only the gravity is now descending on employees of local self-government units, which is very important, and that a new framework of competence is being introduced. So we hope that this legal solution, if fully implemented, will affect the fact that the competence framework itself is respected when receiving employment and the general monitoring of civil servants themselves from the very beginning of a working relationship to the end of the engagement at a certain level. We hope to reduce the abuses of party employment and some of the petty interests that we have very often at the place, and at the expense of quality, the efficiency of the work of local self-government. What I would like to point out and what is actually known, the legal and constitutional obligation is, and here it is decadently pointed out in article 19 that employment must make sure that national composition, gender representation and the number of persons with disabilities among employees must be maintained to the greatest extent the population structure. Therefore, an appeal to local self-government and state authorities, institutions at the level of local self-government to respect the national structure in environments where it is a mixed composition. As far as the Budgetary Inspection Act is concerned, I would like to say something as a new legal solution. So we heard from the minister that this actually means centralizing budget inspection. This will certainly mean more adequate and better control in terms of more efficient spending and use of public funds, the goods of this country through more adequate control, where it will not only be left to inspectors at local level, but it will certainly be centralised and will be appropriate to higher instance and certainly reduce the space for abuses. From that point of view, the issue and implications of these laws on the life of citizens will be visible, and in a positive direction, certainly characterised and I would like to point out in the end that in the day of voting, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasants will support these legislative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10758	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10759	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, we have today a set of draft laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the 2020 budget, which you have just explained and I will only briefly refer to the 2022 Budget Act that we adopted yesterday and which is primarily developmental, because in terms of recovery, the economy is affected by the consequences of the pandemic and how difficult it was to plan one of these budgets, the development budget, which will at the same time meet all the needs of our society. The budget for next year envisions a 4.5% GDP growth, and it is very clear that it will be bigger. In addition, pensions will be up by 5.5%, and minimum earnings are up by as much as 9.4%. You will agree with me that the risks to achieving these projections of the budget remain high and uncertainty over the future course of the pandemic is also the greatest risk of projection of the growth we have in the budget. But, of course, this does not mean that projection is unrealistic, but rather that we have to move on, plan our incomes and our expenditures according to the many parameters we have at our disposal, and all in line with the fiscal policy of the state that has so far produced excellent results. As far as the Budgetary System Act is concerned, the fiscal policy conducted by our country over the past few years has provided room for increased wages and earnings, as well as capital investments as a basic precondition for the development of the economy and the overall standard of living of the population. I will also mention that on the National Employment Service's record there are currently 482,000 people, the smallest number of unemployed in the last two decades and the total amount of state expenditure on salaries and pensions going as much as 40%, which is not negligible. However, despite all this, labour market developments, both in the private and public sectors, enabled the planning of salary growth in 2022 for beneficiaries of budgets of over 7%. I also need to mention that these changes, or these plans, do not cover public utility companies that are the main ones of local self-government. Namely, in a large number of public utility companies and before the implementation of the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, profits were significantly lower than averages, so their freezing at the level of 2014 only further accelerated the already present trend in the decline of standards of employees in the municipal economy. Of course, in the meantime, there was a growth in the minimum earnings that public utility companies had to apply by supplementing from their own resources the amount of the Law provided for, or prescribed minimum earnings and the fact of such a law for a full five years and seriously disrupted the overall business of these companies. In addition, the pursuit of communal activity is threatened because we increasingly have cases of the departure of workers of specific professions. I mean the drivers, the handlers of certain machines, the masters of different profiles, and they're permanently leaving the utility company, and all this cumulatively led to the depletion of the personnel on one side, which combined with a limited profit mass approved by the founder through the business programme, makes the situation even more unfavourable. I will also remind you that in 2014, when the law mentioned earlier began to apply, the minimum earnings amounted to only 18,400 dinars. Today, after seven years, it is planned that the minimum earnings for 2022 are twice as much, and that is 35,000 dinars and that is for every praise, but personally I think it is now time for the state to devote itself to the problem of public utility and the municipal sector to enable them to develop in the coming period. I will also mention that a survey conducted among COMDEL members as an association that brings together public utility companies at Serbia level showed on a sample of 48 companies that, with the current minimum earnings of 183.93 dinars per hour, even two-thirds of municipal enterprises must complement the amount paid to employees in order to achieve minimum earnings and this is a huge burden for both local self-government and public utility companies. I also have to say that they have been established to do business of general interest and their work depends directly on the quality of life in that environment and as much as cities and municipalities are trying to establish a balance, due to limited resources identified by the local budget, but also due to the lack of compliance of legal regulations or simply the inability to implement these regulations without causing any more serious operating disturbances, they themselves cannot find a balance. Why? Because the profit mass is planned through a business programme based on the realisation of the planned service execution, and in order to increase the mass, the prices of services provided by the municipal enterprises must also be increased, which means, in the end, an increase in the expenditure of citizens. You will agree with me that this is not a solution to the problem and that the burden should not be passed on to the citizens, and that is precisely why we need to agree to the regulations and we need to deal seriously with one of these problems in the next period. That is why I appeal to the ministry that now that the finance allows it, when we have stabilised finance and when the public sector has been looked back for years in the area of profit growth, I think the time has come for this growth to be monitored by public utility companies. To go back to the other laws we have on the agenda. First of all, the Law on the Tax on the Income of Citizens, which brings significant changes, primarily those relating to the work of employers, i.e. to facilitating the work of employers through an increase in the untaxable amount of earnings from the current 18,300 dinars to 19,300 dinars per month, which means that the base of the income tax is reduced, and hence the amount of tax on that basis. Therefore, at the same time the rate of the PIO contribution to the employer's burden is reduced by 0.5%, i.e. from the current 11.5 to 11. In this way, less fiscal burden on the income generated by natural persons on the basis of work, as well as a reduction in operating costs for employers, is ensured. These amendments to the law will certainly contribute to the fight against the grey economy and have, in addition to the proposed increase in the non-taxable amount of earnings, been planned and a number of other changes aimed at stimulating employment through the introduction of some new tax incentives for the employment of certain categories. As for the amendment to the Law on Taxes on Use, Keeping and Wearing goods, and we talked a lot about it. It brings an important, long-awaited change, which made many users of motor vehicles happy. These changes in vehicle owners aged from five to 20 years above 2,000 cubic years will allow them to pay lower taxes when registering a vehicle, and the reduction for larger cubicity goes further towards age groups, so that from five to eight years the tax reduction will be 25% instead of the current 15%, then, for vehicles from eight to 10 years of age, the reduction goes to as much as 40% instead of the current 25%, while in the group of the top 10 to 20 years, the reduction will be as much as 65%, instead of the current 45%. If this were to apply to this year's amounts, the owners of the four-point largest cubics would pay a little more than 60,000 dinars less than 85,000 instead of the unreal currently planned 146,000, which means that since 1 January 2022, the tax paid on registration will no longer be charged on the basis of the cubics, but on the basis of the year of production and this is the best example of the application of the principle of taxation to the relative economic power of the obligor. As far as parallel rights are concerned, i.e. the country in the environment, this problem is different in these countries. Depending on the country, either the work volume or the engine power are taken into account, in some cases even the level of the tax depends on the weight and dimensions of the car. Also, the increasingly important factor in determining this height is carbon dioxide emissions, so in some countries taxation has been done for a long time only on the basis of this show, which is likely to keep us waiting for a future period of time when conditions are obtained. Next is the Budgetary Inspection Act. Although the Law on Inspectives and the Law on General Administrative Procedure are largely regulated procedural issues which are important for the conduct of the tasks of the Budgetary Inspectorate, it is necessary to regulate the limits and powers of inspection in the tasks of the Budgetary Inspectorate by means of a new law. The analysis of the capacity of the budgetary inspection within the city, i.e. municipal administrations and units of local self-government found that during 2018 there were 87, i.e. in 2019 81, that in 2020 there would be 83 budgetary inspectors involved, while at the republican level there were only 17, which indicates a clear trend in the decline of the number of budgetary inspectors, and this is indirectly reflected in the number of inspections carried out, but also in the quality of work, because it is simply impossible for them to have reduced capacities, in the manner in which it is today organised, the quality of work to be at some enviable level. For this reason, the amendments, i.e. the adoption of this new law, are fully justified. This means that this law allows the centralisation of a budgetary inspection aimed at increasing not only the average number of controls carried out by the inspector, which is more than necessary if we consider that the average number of controls carried out by the inspector at the republican level in 2020 was 4,86, at the level of the autonomous province of 3.3, while the average number of controls carried out by the inspector at the level of local self-government units was only 2.65. Another thing that has been necessary to amend and which justifies the adoption of this law is that they are foreseen that the budgetary inspector can only be a person who has acquired a higher education from the scientific field of economic or legal science for at least four years, which means that the tasks of the budgetary inspector will in future be able to perform only those who have a narrow education necessary to carry out this specific inspection supervision. This law further regulates the mandatory collection procedure of the budgetary inspector’s solution, making a clear distinction in the powers to execute a mandatory payment order depending on whether or not the supervised entity is involved in the consolidated account of the Treasury. It was also proposed to postpone the application of this law from 1 January 2023, to bring in a sublegal act for its implementation by then, as well as to conduct a centralisation of the budgetary inspection, which certainly takes time. The next law is the Customs Act, which currently applies, from 2018. He is largely in line with EU Customs Law. However, the opening of the negotiating chapter 29, which applies to the Customs Union, has led to a change of customs law in the EU, thus giving rise to the need to bring our law into line with it. The proposed amendments simplify the administrative procedure itself by reducing it to 30 days, which has been laid down by the General Administrative Procedure Act, in place of the deadline for deciding the customs authority at the request for protection of intellectual property rights from 120 days. This will undoubtedly produce a positive effect on the economy, in terms of a shorter deadline for decision-making at the request. Finally, I have an amendment to the Law on Employees in Autonomous Provinces and Units of Local Self-Government, which introduces human resources management based on competences aimed at strengthening the capacity of the province and local administration. The basis for amending this law is the framework for competence of employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, whose work has been done since 2019. The public administration reform strategy recognised the need to improve staff planning and administrative capacity of the administration as bearer of public administration reform in general. A series of discussions held on the subject of the draft amendments and the addition of the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government was of great importance. In this sense, it reflects the overall system and functioning of the province and local self-government. The public administration is in the process of digitising and introducing the E-Government Programme in bodies and institutions and provinces, as well as units of local self-government, so that the introduction of such an electronic administration programme is not only an internal humane reorganisation, it is a segment that will enable better functionality, but also efficiency in the work of the authorities and services. The budget as a development document that our political party and parliamentary group supported, as well as following the laws we are talking about today, is fully in line with the SDPS programme. That is why in the voting day, we will support all the proposed laws today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10760	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the JS parliamentary group, MP of Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10761	We are today discussing a set of laws concerning our country's economic policy. Yesterday we voted the Budget Law for 2022 and somehow, the logical trail of events is that today we are also discussing this set of economic laws that will accompany and direct our country's economic policy in line with what we adopted yesterday at the Budget Law. What I would like to say at first and point out, and what is very important to us from JS is that our economic policy is finally set in order. In fact, the budget in parliament is being delivered on time and within the legal deadline. The budget is projected realistically, conservatively, both in terms of income and expenditure. Still a Scottish economist philosopher and one of the pioneers of the political economy, Adam Smith, said that the only good budget is a balanced budget. In that sense, it was obviously also being led in the design of this year's budget. If so, it tells us even the fact that as the share of public debt in GDP is increasing worldwide, we plan to reduce the share of public debt in GDP from the expected 58.2%, as it should be at the end of this year to 55.5%, as far as we plan to be the share of public debt at the central state level by the end of next year. This is practically the continuity of the economic policy that has been going on since 2012, a policy of continued and continuous reduction of public debt. It is a responsible economic policy, thanks to which we as a state had the space to preserve our economy, to build the necessary hospitals, to get enough vaccines and medical resources and to provide the necessary financial assistance, both to the economy and to the population. If it hadn't been for such a policy, we couldn't have implemented three financial aid packages worth more than eight billion euros in the period of the coronary pandemic. We certainly wouldn't be able to do that if in years before the pandemic there hadn't been a responsible economic policy, savings policy and a reduction of public debt. Even according to the Fiscal Council on Yesterday's Budget Law, which was issued by Pavle Petrovic, Serbia's 2022 budget is said to be carefully planned and a 3% of GDP deficit, i.e. 1.7 billion euros, and it will be easy to realise that the Fiscal Council estimates that the deficit is likely to be less than 2%. What the budget is projected on is an estimate of the growth of our economy for the next year of 4.5%, and that is also a conservative estimate, if there are no unforeseen circumstances in the world, in the environment, I am sure that this growth rate of 4.5% will be overcome in the following year. Serbia has shown its tenacity and strength and we can be proud of the fact that this year, the year of the coronary pandemic, we will end up with an economic growth of over 7% which is most likely the highest growth rate in Europe or will be one of the largest. That budget we made yesterday guarantees two things. On the one hand, increasing the standard of living of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand strengthening the economic activities of our country. The fruits and responsible economic policies of citizens are now being harvested and the state is constantly working to increase the living standards of the population. Serbia, from 330 euros, was the average salary in 2012, when we were only fourth in the region, to about 600 euros as much as 610 are said to be the beginning of 2022. As of 1 January 2022, an increase in pensions of 5.5% corresponding to the Swiss formula we apply, plus in February a payment of 20,000 dinars to pensioners, plus those 20 euros that will be paid in January, is an increase in the mass of pensions by 11.2% compared to this year. Of course, there will also be an increase in public sector wages by 7.3% on average for those employed in the military, health and social services of 8%, for all others in the public administration of around 7%, which gives an average or average increase of 7.3%. As of January 1st, minimum wage, minimum earnings, by 9.4% and will amount to just over 35,000 dinars. The redundancies continue and all this is in line with the basic economic principle that we, from the JS, are also committed, which is that the budget is primarily spent by citizens. By taxing on the income of citizens, the Law amending the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens, we here relieve additional economics and facilitate business to business operators, because we increase the untaxable part from 18,300 dinars to 19,300 dinars. Also, the contribution to the employer's burden when the PIO fund is at stake decreases 0.5%, i.e. from 11.5% to 11%. There are other reliefs for employers who are released by 70% of the accounted and suspended income tax for newly employed persons, as well as 70% of tax exemptions for persons employed in development and research. It's simply all these reliefs that are the incentive of the state to strengthen the economic development of the other goal that I've been talking about for a little while and that I've cited for a moment. Of course, what is very important is that 485 billion dinars of capital investment are planned at the general state level next year, which is 7.3% of GDP. When private and all other investment expected is added, it comes to a level of 25.4% which is more than the amount of this year, but what is even more important is more than the amount of 2019, the year when it did not exist and there was no pandemic of the coronary virus. So, more than the time before Kovid. The state's policy is of course directed towards the employment of the construction industry, which showed good results and Serbia is currently building seven highways and fast roads, began a few days ago and building a subway in Belgrade. There is also money in the budget for next year for the completion of work on the new vaccine production plant, for construction of works for the National Stadium, the completion of the Serbian Clinical Centre in Belgrade and the construction of many hospitals and schools, etc. What is very important to me as an MEP from Jagodina, is that recently on the visit of Serbian President Jagodina the construction of a new general hospital in Jagodina is agreed and that is something that makes the citizens of Jagodina very pleased. What was not a practice during the former government, which is a good practice and which you, Mr. Minister, introduced, and it seems to me, also yesterday my fellow MP, Vojislav Vujic, and that is now the rule that the final account is passed within a legal time, that it is regularly adopted in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is a practice that makes economic policy of our country, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all of us, makes it transparent, makes it verifiable, subject to control. Here we have today the opportunity to actually discuss the final account for 2000, and the critics of today's government have never worked during their reign. I ask them now: Why did they not do so when they were in power? Why did these critics today’s authorities not submit a regular final account to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Is that proof of their non-translucency, and is that perhaps the reason that they went out of power richer for a lot of money? The money that we've been dealing with for a year, some people keep on accounts abroad, and we've been doing it here for a year and we're doing more and we're looking for answers to questions about where those money came from. All these laws we're discussing today concern our country's economic policy, I said. Serbia has been running a very ambitious economic policy in recent years, a policy of many, I would say, capital infrastructure projects, from highways and railways, to subways, "Begrada na Voda" and other projects. As Serbia spends every day, from year to year carrying out these capital projects, so a handful of people, but economically and medialy powerful people, are trying to degrade and discredit such ambitious projects. Mark Teven said - avoid those who demean your ambitions. It's only small people do it, while great people in you get the feeling that you can get big, too. So, that handful of people who protested two days ago, about 100-150 people, as much as there were in Makish, protested to start working on the subway, are exactly the little people Mark Teven talks about. For example, I read in the media that Sanda Raskovic Ivić said about the protest: "The spark is incinerated by today's protest and I hope that people will regain consciousness. It's not too late because it's just begun digging up the Metro Depot and there's time for the project to stop." It's typical of little people, huge egos and insurmountable vanitys. Usually, such people can't see beyond their own egos. Blinded by their own vanity and malice, they are neither conscious of reality nor able to see what the right path is. So were those who protested on "Belgrade on Water", who are walking the Sava Promenade today and those who are now looking for a connection to buy a living space in that same "Belgrade on Water" against whom they were so strong. I am telling these people, these small people and even smaller souls, that no one can stop and prevent Serbia anymore, because Serbian citizens have realised that Mark Teven is right and that such small people should be avoided in the widest possible circle. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System defines an increase in salaries for beneficiaries of budget funds, and I said that when it comes to the public sector, it is on average 7.3%, 8% for the military, health, social services, etc. and other public sector 7%. We from the JS support the fact that, whether the citizens of Serbia are workers, whether they are pensioners, they know in advance what their salaries will be, what their pensions will be, how much they will be, and when pensions and salaries are increased, and so they can plan their lives. This is a great result of this government, believe me, a great result of this government, because it gives security to people, gives them the opportunity to plan, and that's very important, and that's what we in JS strongly support. When it comes to the Law on Taxes on Property, or the way in which taxes on the transfer of absolute rights on used motor vehicles are determined, it should be said that the first producer of Henry Ford's serial cars when they asked him what car was best in time, expected him to say Ford model "T" or how Tin Lizzie was, that's the first car that was serially manufactured on tape, they thought he would say that he was, but no, he answered – the best car is a new car. And the ideal situation would really be if we could all drive new cars. Of course, this is not a situation not only in Serbia but also in the EU. Namely, the average age of cars in EU countries is 10.8 years, but there is also an EU country like Romania and some others whose cars are approximately average age, such as the average age of cars in Serbia, about 17 years old. This is our reality and JS strongly supports this law because it balances somewhere between the financial opportunities of our citizens on the one hand and traffic security on the other hand, because the financial opportunities of our citizens and the security of traffic are very important issues. We could hear the data a little while, and I would like to repeat them here, and this is said by Minister Nedimovic, that for car cubics from two to two and a half thousand cc's of taxes are reduced by 14,000 dinars, that for cars from two and a half thousand to three thousand cc's of taxes are reduced by as much as 29 thousand dinars, and that for cars over three thousand cc's of taxes are reduced by almost 500 euros. It is a great relief for our citizens and for the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that is why we will also support this law. In fact, there is a succesively reduced tax on cars from five to 20 years of age. For those vehicles over the age of 20, there is no change, because even now 20% of the tax amount is already being paid, so further tax reduction on these cars might also boost the import of the very oldest models, which of course is not our interest primarily for traffic security reasons. As regards the law on amendments and additions to the Customs Act here, the most important change in us from JS is the reduction of the time-limits for the protection of intellectual property rights from 120 days to the achievement of the General Administrative Procedure Act where this deadline is shortened to 30 days and it is very important for the economy and, as I repeat, an MP who comes from Jagodina, where we have a lot of foreign investors, but also domestic businessmen, somewhere as one of the problems put to us in conversation, from these foreign investors and our domestic businessmen is this very complicated, long, complex customs procedure and the procedure of colouring the instructions and the highway, and somewhere, as I would say, the reduction of these procedures, the increase of customs efficiency is a very important thing when it comes to the development of the economy, and there is one of the factors that attracts me, the foreign investors in Serbia. If we also have this procedure effective, it is one more factor for even more foreign investment and for even greater and stronger economic development. When we talk about the Budgetary Inspection Act, such as the previous speaker, our colleague Sanja said, this defines the centralisation of budgetary inspection, which determines that the budgetary inspector can be an economist or lawyer with a minimum of four years of college, i.e. education from the scientific field of economic or legal science for at least four years, and this will allow the operations of the budgetary inspection to be carried out by persons who have a narrow professional education necessary to carry out this specific job. Of course, there are also the procedures for forced collection, the budgetary inspectors' solutions for the Treasury Administration to carry out that mandatory charge with budget users etc. What I would say is, and to mention for the first time today, because I listened to the presentation of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, and we from JS, one of our most important programming principles, is the fight against white plague, the struggle to increase natural growth, increase the birth rate, and the president announced about 40 minutes ago or maybe an hour ago that the state for each firstborn child will give 300 thousand dinars, that the family will also have the benefits of studying and many other situations, and we from JS as people who have been fighting for years and propagating that one of the most important state problems and the fight against the white plague are welcoming that act. We, for example, in our local programmes in Jagodina have had and have similar actions and I think that we all, together, start from state through autonomous provinces to local self-government, should do everything to improve the natural growth of our country and to fight one of the greatest monsters in our society, which is the fight against the white plague. As JS President Dragan Markovic Palma said yesterday -- Serbia's budget brings optimism and these laws that follow it, and for this reason, the JS Parliamentary Group will also support this set of accompanying laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10762	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10763	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, if I were to describe these amendments and the additions of the laws that are united in point 2 relating to the planning and implementation of the budget in 2022 in the shortest possible way, I would point out two key things. The first key thing is that we've been building a public finance system for years. Just at a time of enormous external shock, to which we have not contributed in any way, but to which we have successfully adapted, the system of public finances has shown stability and credibility, after many years, only those who do not want to see or deny the results achieved. Serbian public finances are trusted by Serbian citizens, most importantly. However, as rarely when perception is almost identical to perception abroad. Serbia has been assessed unequivocally by almost all relevant organisations in the world dealing with public finances as a reliable and more secure country. If, in my own time, I personally said something on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, it is that for the success of one policy you need to know exactly what you want, how much time it takes, that some things can't be done quickly, and that others don't need much time but will. Today, it is a pleasure to discuss the budget and amendments and additions to the laws that follow the draft budget law, because it is difficult to have a debate that is very meaningful, and that this is not a debate on how to make the good situation even better, as well as what are the challenges that await us in a long time, not the challenges that stand on our backs and do not allow us to move forward. Another key thing and point to point out is that public finances are resistant to external shocks, and as a result, the draft budget for 2022 follows fine-tuning system laws, where we are finally dealing with the settings of the same rather than radical changes in fire extinguishing, by solving years of inaction, by paying other people's bills. It's been a while since we've been making budgets and budgets with substantial and profound changes in system laws, so that we don't patch up a system that leaks everywhere, which is torn apart and that can end up in collapse at any moment. If someone with a long parliamentary standing is looking forward to something, it is that Serbia's parliament, with all the speed obligations resulting from European integration, as well as the dynamic international activities of Serbia, is a gradual shift to the focus of quality and reasonable speed. Organized democracies with a regulated market economy are not raised at the speed of parliament, they are raised by slowness, the quality of the law and careful analysis of each letter. Systems only exist if they are dynamic, but the basic question is the degree of dynamism. Since the crises we have caused ourselves in Serbia are our past that will not be repeated, and it is unlikely that an external shock like Kovid will occur -- 19 that has hit us, we are going towards peaceful waters, where what has always been a SPS policy -- strategic thinking for a period of at least 10 years, and for some of the key policies, thinking should apply until 2050. Instead of determining the mistakes of the past, our current activities are dominant too, because today we have experience of how to never repeat such things, and our legislative activity is too much of a perspective in the future, which we have not thought seriously and stately enough before. What are the reasons for this dosed optimism? Although during the debate at point 1, there could be many arguments that support these claims, as well as a few emotions that were not too analytical, because they can't be by nature, I would make those arguments that are the best indicator of Serbia's stability, which is a country of social justice and a country where host management is a practice that dominates rather than a mere combustible. After a huge intervention in 2020 and 2021 and an unremembered package of support for businesses and citizens, Serbia is still a country whose public debt meets Mastricht standards, which cannot be said for the vast majority of countries that wrote these standards, but they did not gladly adhere to them. We have completely controlled our own duty at a time of great challenge. The budget deficit we are planning in 2022 is much lower than the expected GDP growth rate, as we will have reduced debt at the end of 2022. Sometimes it is really sad to hear that people who claim to be serious critics do not realize that the only important thing is how much debt is in relation to GDP, or to explain in the words of everyday life -- a 1,000-euro debt is easier to pay if the annual salary of a person is 7,500 euros than if it is 4,000 euros, and it is especially easier to pay back the debt if the annual interest is 15 euros rather than 90 euros. That brings us to further talk about reasons for optimism. Serbia slowly knocks on the door of "a" countries, and here, as we like to say in the SPS, only constant work helps. Greater recognition of Serbia as a reliable country means higher rating and lower interest rates to be paid. Although there's not much point in explaining to anyone that today is better or worse, the average wages tell us it's better and it'll get even better. After years of saving, we have come to a position that we do not have to refrain from spending more than is reasonable when the country is stable. Today, we can all be socialists, show that maybe our country spends more than it did on the first ball so it can spend, when we see our gross wages, our profits before taxes, our taxes that pay, taxes and VAT. But unlike other times, it is seen today that this money is returned to the citizens in a profoundly meaningful and fair way. Today, we are able to build a infrastructure that, by quality, lags in the same way in Europe, to solve environmental issues, to deal with birth, social protection, that pensioners can live decently, that employees in the state administration can afford to have a little bit of satisfaction. Serbia whose constitution they are happy to mention, but are not happy to read it, is even less understood by the state of the Serbian people and all citizens who live in it, based on the rule of law and social justice, the principles of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms and membership of European principles and values. Social justice is the second mentioned in Article 1 and social justice today is not equality in poverty, but justice in the distribution of growing newly created values. If we go back to the preamble, as well as the fact that the state of the Serbian people, today we are able to protect both provisions much stronger, because not only is the international right behind us, but also the growing economic power and recognised foreign policy. I could continue to guide additional budgetary indicators, but I would like to say something about the challenges that will arise in the medium term. Before that, in my old good practice, I would say something that was the position of the SPS in 2016, said right here in this place, when the budget was being made. I quote: "The state is not a trotinet that can be easily stopped, and then turned in a different direction, without any serious consequences happening, except maybe a little licked sole. We were able to reverse the ship that was going in the wrong direction and instead of towards the icebergs, it's going in the direction of a calm and safe sea. There are many good expectations, we have balanced finances and we can already think about the development item. The perspective of reducing tax rates and extending the tax base opens. We will be able to look at the whole picture from this holistic approach and view, we also have appropriate policy strategies and measures that at the time we exited the fire-fighting state, the implementation, once acted as a distant and uncertain future. Also, the time ends when we have been limited in support of vulnerable groups." That's what we talked about in 2016. There is nothing that gives more power than seeing clearly that you do not lie to the citizens of Serbia and you promise them towers and cities, but a certain, realistically better future within a reasonable time. So I will present what challenges are in creating a completely different, double-better Serbia, a country that has learned how to win. Infrastructure is important. At the same time, we must build an economy that will use that infrastructure. Today, we are building what previous generations have missed, whether because of the wandering of Serbia during world geostrategic changes, whether because of lack of capacity and the desire to solve such things as sewerage, water supply, water treatment and air treatment and the end of European corridors. We are also building a new infrastructure that is the fruit of today's generations' thinking in order to preserve population in most parts of Serbia and make every part of it equally attractive. Infrastructure is a prerequisite for large parts of Serbia not to be emptied, but it will become a ballast if we do not build an economy that will benefit it. Therefore, we need to do everything more actively to regulate our legal system, to get more and more quality investors, but also to develop domestic companies. If anything is necessary, it is to encourage both private and domestic investments. Precisely, with full legal certainty, e-government and lower taxes for small businesses, there awaits us a true battle worthy of those led by famous Serbs who bear or will bear the names of highways in Serbia. The challenges on the outside will remain our reality. The countries that have been developing carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere today would like to give us lessons, to us that haven't even contributed close to that global problem. Lessons are not only moral, they are accompanied by calls to replace technologies that enable us to make cheap final products and independence in many areas of energy expensive and essentially unreliable technologies that would expose us to the energy shocks we see around Europe today. These challenges will be many, cynicisms where we should take our recent exit from poverty to save other people's comforts and others making profits, but also authentic domestic, to express myself, crazyism where you truly hate one sad xenophobicity, which brings progress, because progress can obviously bring only a declared minority elite. Ours is waiting for a big green battle, and it's up to us to find models that will solve the challenges that follow us. Finally, a battle awaits us to return our people, to support the creation of a larger family or better to say any family, to start with, as well as to think about who we want in Serbia, because it would be devastating for the Serbian people if we continue to rely on the inflow from Montenegro and Republika Srpska. We have experience in large countries that have completely failed in the field of emigration, but also in the experience of smaller countries that xenophobia has put ahead of real needs in the mid-term. The laws that follow this budget are part of the puzzle that I'm talking about the principle of. I don't want to take time away from my colleagues who will, in particular, speak for the SPS as someone who is changed and complemented by these accompanying laws with budget and concern. So, at the shortest, I'm just gonna say it's only fair to change car taxation to a larger cubicity. What we need is for the customs procedure to be made effective in the area to be changed, as well as in many other areas. Budgetary inspection and forced payment must be a job for verified experts. The calls themselves are important, but also constant impact measurement and additional education. It's nice that we have become the norm that everyone today takes for granted that a report on its execution is coming along with the budget. That's what my colleagues mentioned. All in all, from my point of view I can say, and on behalf of the SPS, that beautiful times are ahead of us, full of challenges, of course, but also the certainty that in strategic thinking, valuable work and a fundamentally fair attitude towards politics, the whole country will move forward. The Socialist Party of Serbia will always be part of such a story because it has something to repeat. On behalf of the SPS, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10764	Thank you. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, MP Rosalia Ekres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10765	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-Presidents of Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, in front of the SVM parliamentary group in today's presentation as an authorised representative, I will look back at several draft laws. First, I will talk about the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget. Last year, when my esteemed colleague, Vice-President of Parliament, Elvira Kovac, discussed this topic, she pointed out that in the previous period from 2000 to 2019, i.e. In 19 years, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia only twice, in 2000 and 2001, considered the final bill here and passed those laws. The legal obligation to adopt a final account in the National Assembly has not been respected since 2002 and beyond, with the final account being reached in the assembly procedure from 2002 to 2014 and thus being made available to the public, but it was simply not discussed here in the plenary. Two years ago, more specifically on 16 December 2019, 17 proposals on final accounts were later discussed in a joint debate. So, all of a sudden from 2002 to 2018. We SVM MPs welcome the respect of deadlines and we are extremely pleased that today, as last year at this time, according to the prescribed budget calendar, we have the opportunity to discuss the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget. We express our satisfaction that this assembly meeting has restored and established the practice of keeping public hearings on the most significant legislative proposals that allow MPs and representatives of the Government, as well as representatives of professional associations and the civil sector to consider proposed legal solutions and clarify any issues that may arise. The organisation of public hearings on the most significant legislative proposals provides for a transparent and democratic procedure for the adoption of laws and enriches parliamentary practice. I therefore thank and congratulate the esteemed chairman of the committee, MP Aleksandra Tomic, for organising an extremely useful public hearing on the 2022 draft budget law, as well as the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. In accordance with the provisions of the Budgetary System Act, at the end of the year for which the budget was adopted, the final budget account shall be drawn up showing the total revenue and revenue achieved, as well as the total expenditure and expenditure incurred from 1 January to 31 December of the year for which the budget was made. The final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget was drawn up in accordance with the law, i.e. on the basis of data from the annual report and consolidated annual reports on the implementation of the budget of users who, in their jurisdiction, have indirect beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020 planned revenues and revenues of 1.291.4 billion dinars and expenditures of 1.728.2 billion dinars. The revenues and receipts made are 1,301.9 billion dinars that exceed the plan by 0.8%. The underestimated assessment of the funds in the creation of the initial budget is recommended, first of all, for the safety of the assessment, which is always possible to be corrected after moving from the projection sphere to the real-estate zone. Therefore, to praise this result is a conservatively planned budget. This is another confirmation that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance are planning the budget realistically and to a significant extent carefully. All positions on the revenue side are realised in a larger amount than the plan. In the structure of total income and budget receipts, the highest tax source, the value added tax of 42.2% was achieved in the amount of 549.3 billion dinars, which is 0.3% over the plan. Excise revenues amounted to 306 billion dinars, i.e. 2.1% higher than planned. The corporate income tax was reached at 113.2 billion dinars, i.e. by 0.2% above the projected value. The income tax of citizens was reached at 65.9 billion dinars, and revenues from customs duties amounting to 51.9 billion dinars. Other tax revenues were made at 12.7 billion, while non-tax revenues amounted to 2.2 billion dinars. The expenditure and expenditures of the budget were realised in the amount of 1,760 billion dinars, or 99.2% in comparison to the plan. It is another indicator of the real budget Serbia has years ago. The amount of expenditure on non-financial assets, with a share of 11.4% in total expenditure and expenditure, is 200 billion dinars, or 99.2% in comparison to the plan, and is evidence of a high level of realisation of the capital budget. In 2020, revenue and revenue from the sale of non-financial assets is lower than the expenditure incurred to obtain non-financial assets of 407 billion dinars, representing a budget deficit. In that regard, the implementation of expenditure on the payment of capital and the purchase of financial assets, in order to implement public policies, has reached a fiscal deficit of 458.2 billion dinars. The total public debt of the Republic of Serbia at the central state level on 31 December 2020 was 26.7 billion euros and 57.4% of GDP, respectively. During 2020, due to the need to finance economic support measures and citizens to reduce the impact of the pandemic crisis, there was an increase in public debt growth in GDP at the central level of government from 52% at the end of 2019 to 57.4% at the end of 2020. The final budget report for 2020 gave a positive opinion with the reserve, which according to established audit standards means that this final account has been prepared in accordance with law and other regulations, except in part of the basis for an opinion with a reserve where certain irregularities have been identified, with recommendations and deadlines for their removal. The number of irregularities was found to be significantly lower compared to previous years, and errors in the accounting record and financial report would be diminished, as the finance ministry accepted most of the DRI recommendations and acted on them. We believe that all this is very important for the responsible management of public finances and public resources, and in the day of voting, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will vote in favour of the proposal for a final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget. The focus of the proposed amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act are two topics. For the first topic, we can say that the topic aimed at achieving or setting a goal is short-term annual character. It is an indexation, or wage growth in the public sector, planned for 2022. The second topic is the centralized receipt account by introducing a new platform for human resources management and control of wage expenditure. This segment of change is systemically, which targets long-term objectives aimed at improving the public finance management system and human resources policy. As salaries and pensions represent a significant component of state expenditure of around 40%, careful measurement and definition of the policy of movement of these expenditures is very important for maintaining stability and responsible management of public finances. Are the proposed rates of salary growth of 7%, i.e. for individual sectors of 8%, and what is carefully and responsibly projected at the level of the total, according to the respected minister? According to a fiscal strategy adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the nominal GDP growth of 2022 compared to 2021 was projected with a 7.7% growth rate. The gross social product in current market prices for 2021 was projected at 6,163 billion dinars, and for 2022, at 6,638.7 billion dinars. Therefore, wages grow slower than economic growth, and in this sense we can say that this projection from an economic point of view and from the point of view of sustainability is well-matched. Therefore, what is most important is that the projected wage growth, according to the above parameters, will not be a generator of financial instability and imbalance. Due to the centralized return account, which is qualitative and systematic progress in managing public finances, we can only give full support. It is no doubt that this promotion will result in a series of benefits as regards the transparency of the issue of how many public sector employees and how much they cost, thus raising the efficiency of operational operations related to the calculation, monitoring and reporting and, most importantly, in the management of these significant resources. All of us are clear benefits that we will have from accurate, reliable, comprehensive and timely available data on this important segment of public expenditure, which will be made possible by applying a single centralised and integrated database. So, of course, we also support this proposal. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government are phases in the already launched process of reforming the public-service system and are in place to support the construction of a modern, efficient and professional public administration, i.e. they are prepared to achieve the objectives set out in the Public Administration Reform Strategy in the Republic of Serbia. The current Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government of 2016 established the basic principles of the career of staff for civil servants in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, thus setting the local service system on the same or similar basis as the state service system. Amendments to the Law on civil servants of 2018 gave the legal basis to start from 2019 in all functions of human resources management at the level of the central government introduce a system of competence, establishing a quality legal basis for improving employment and for the professional development of civil servants. Given the changes made at the central level of government, activities have been taken to identify the possibility of introducing the competence framework at local level, further reforming public administration in the field of human resources management, with a view to establishing a harmonised public-service system and ensuring a uniform position of employees. During 2020, several meetings were held under the auspices of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, with the aim of preparing the text of amendments and amendments to the law, with the participation of AP Vojvodina representatives, the Staff Management Service, the National Academy of Public Administration and local self-government. These meetings showed a high level of co-operation between the ministry and local authorities, but indicated that it is necessary in a similar way to arrange institutes at the central and local level. With these amendments and additions to the Law, the accent was put in place to introduce the competences of officials, which should contribute to a more efficient and professional public administration, for which the SVM parliamentary group gives full support. At the end of my discussion, I would like to point out that the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government has created a legal framework for the application of Article 77(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which allows for favouring national minorities in employment under the same conditions, and until it reaches the proper structure of public sector employees at all levels of the territorial organisation. According to the latest data, on September 30th of this year, the AP Vojvodina's representation of national minorities in public administration authorities remains below their percentage participation in the population. In the case of our Hungarian national community, lagging behind is significant. In addition to 13% of the population's participation in employee structure, that figure is only 4.52%. Consistent application of affirmative employment measures should be corrected. And finally, I would like to repeat once again that the SVM parliamentary group will support all the proposed points on the agenda of today's session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10766	Thank you. The word is Minister Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10767	Thank you very much, honourable Members of the People. Just two things I'd like to point out, which are related to a press conference that President Vukic finished about half an hour ago. Two very, very important news, when it comes to Serbian citizens. The first news, the news of support, continues to encourage policies to boost our country's birth rate. President Vukic announced that as of January 1st, we will pay for each firstborn child a single aid of not 100,000 dinars, as so far, but 300,000 dinars. So we increase the one-time aid from 100,000 to 300,000 dinars, just to encourage young couples, young people, to give birth to children, because this budget that we voted yesterday, new highways, new factories, new and fast railways, means nothing to us unless we have children who are going to drive these highways and these tracks. So, one extremely important news and what the president announced, also in the next ten to fifteen days, we're going to go out with additional measures to support the Natalie policy both for the second and for the third born child, so I'm just saying, we're going to encourage young couples to start their family and have as many children as possible. It's the first news that's very important. I hope that says enough about the policy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is currently leading. If you look at the amount of aid, given the number of firstborn children in Serbia, it is about 5.7 billion dinars of support and greater aid in 2022, therefore, exactly on a course of about 50m euros. So it's not a little help, it's a big help, but for a very, very important goal, maybe even most important when it comes to our country's future. The second thing the president announced, and I want to confirm, at tomorrow's cabinet session, we will adopt a special regulation on financial support for sports organisations, as well as last year. We will set aside 1.2 billion dinars for 309 clubs in 17 sports, so an additional 1.2 billion dinars that will be laid down in these clubs' accounts by next week. I'm talking about karate, athletics, turquoise, boxing, rowing, wrestling, karaoke, swimming, table tennis, tennis, judo, shooting, basketball, volleyball, water polo, handball, so all the first and second league clubs and women and men's clubs will receive financial assistance from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and not to forget another 20 million dinars for paralympic sport. So, huge support for our sportsmen, huge support for our athletes, although there is still a major crisis caused by Kovid-19, we do not give up investment in sports, not only in sports infrastructure, as you remember, and in the 2022 budget you have money for the completion of a multi-functional hall in Kosutnjak and for the start of the construction of a shooting range on the Carjevoj muzzle and various other projects that we continue, the excessive construction of football stadiums throughout Serbia, but it is also very important for us to show that support, financially excessively, and sports clubs, to provide enough money for both equipment and sports competitions, for all of what is necessary for our young people to play sports and of course for Serbia to achieve even better results in all these sports. Another good news, something we did last year, we have space in the budget, we have money, we want to do this year, so already next week on the accounts of 309 clubs in Serbia, it's 17 sports, it's going to be 1.2 billion dinars, 10m euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10768	Thank you. The word has the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vučić – "For Our Children", MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10769	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we as representatives and SNS and coalition partners here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can only be proud of what you are telling us from session to session when it comes to our country's finances, when it comes to financial stability, when it comes to new investments and everything that awaits us in the coming period in terms of economic growth and on the modernisation of our country, new investments, new jobs, changes in the structure of our economy, adaptation to new and global flows, which, of course, is very important for what you just said, which is empowering demographic characteristics in our country. Since this is one of the key topics for our development in the future, this may be the topic that concerns the most and President Alexander Vukic, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all of us who want to do well for this country, we want to develop it and we want this country, as it has been doing in the past seven years, to build in this country, to be a country like that, a country of cranes, agricultural machines, a combination, tractors working in fields, fields, young people who have the opportunity to study at the best universities and schools, to start their own private and entrepreneurial initiatives, to be employed in the best companies, worldly, but also domestic. That's what a key SNS programme is, and that's when it comes to demographics, creating preconditions for how to be more and how to create good conditions for it. Not only are we talking about this, not just to delegate it as it was before as a topic, but just as you said, as you quoted what the president said, Alexander Vukic at a press conference, which is giving concrete and serious help to future mothers, future parents, people we want to make the best possible conditions for life here. It's not just about the money, it's not just about that freedom I can say, a large sum of 300,000 dinars for the first child, but also about a whole series of benefits of pregnant women, families who will be able to do much easier and study, which will be able to function and exercise their rights much easier and thus try to achieve that full equality and full respect, a lot of respect for women in our society, what we do right here, for a few years, and we point to our case and case of work and functioning of our institutions. We are not people who only speak, who talk, but are people who work and who today have more than a third of women who are MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have a highly developed and very powerful Women's Parliamentary Network that has a very big impact, not only in our Parliament but in our society as well. There is my distinguished colleague, Sandra Christmas, who has launched many initiatives, and there is nothing left for us but to support such a policy in terms of demographics and our citizens, especially our young people will see in three, four or five years what the real effects of these measures will be, which will affect us to keep the most productive, the best young people here in Serbia, to work here, to create here, to plan their future, to plan our families here, because that is the only way we can strengthen Serbia, only if we are more, our growth will be bigger, our development will be bigger. I don't want to talk much about it, you said a lot yesterday and said Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and other ministers, but my fellow MPs and MPs also talked about the 2022 budget, about everything that awaits us, about the results, about economic growth, about the reduction of the fiscal deficit, about the public debt, all those parameters that are great. So, I can't speak here in Parliament or anywhere, not to mention the fact that everyone, the whole nation should be proud that this year we will have over 7% of the economic growth in the Republic of Serbia, which will be the greatest growth in Europe in 2020 and 2021. Serbia today is in many segments champion. Serbia is developing today at a huge, high speed and has become unstoppable. However, I would like to say that one very important job that is doing so much more behind the scenes and which is simply important and the prerequisite is that everything that we are planning in the following year, in terms of investment, employment, capital investment, state investment, help, salary increase, pensions, could not possibly happen that we do not have that support and the pregoverning work of President Alexander Vukic, who tomorrow is going to a very important visit to the Russian Federation where he will meet for the 19th time with Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin, where he will fight for his country, where we will hopefully have information on Friday, we will have this good news, that we will have a good price of gas for this year and for the next few years. I am sure that Alexander Vucic will secure that price, given that this fight for the price of gas, the price of energy, the sustainability of our energy system, the electrical energy system, the fight to protect our energy and our energy resources doesn't last since yesterday. It doesn't last for Vukic a month or two ago when there was an energy crisis. Well, today we see that the barrel of oil in America has only grown almost double in about a month, a month and a half. That the President of the United States ordered an intervention yesterday with 50 million barrels from reserves, U.S. oil reserves that should be distributed to the market. This struggle lasts for years, this struggle for Serbia to maintain its energy resources, maintain its energy stability and maintain state independence and independent decision-making through the fact that we will not fully depend on only one supplier when it comes to both gas and other energy sources, but also not to give in to those so-called. alternative energy sources as something that's salvation. This is also what Serbia is doing, but it is certain that it was someone else in the position of President Alexander Vukic, perhaps it would fall into that trap to speak and think that we do not need coal, that we do not need other types of energy. Because if it hadn't been for such an attitude, if it hadn't been for the red lines set by the president, Alexander Vukic, on the issue of gas, on the electricity stability of preserving the resources of the domestic company, therefore, EPS, who knows what would be today and when it comes to the gas supply and electricity of citizens, without talking about the economy, which is actually the engine of our country's overall development. We can't imagine what it would be like if the President, Alexander Vukic, had listened to others, as it was done by 2012, executed orders and orders from various embassies here and imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation. In order to equate himself with EU foreign policy, he has received some points in Brussels, Berlin or another European capital. Who would you talk to me with today? Now, today, that is tomorrow, Alexander Vukic will speak to President Putin in full capacity, one sovereign leader, one sovereign country. To be clear, it's a job and he'll fight for the price of gas that's best possible. Of course, the Russians won't give us anything for nothing. We won't get anything for free, but this conversation will have a friendly connotation of a country and statesman who is a reliable partner, who doesn't react at every moment to anyone and any other world player, however powerful he is, but is leading a sovereign foreign and domestic policy, given that he respects all partners, but also respects the traditional friendship between our two peoples, and therefore in full capacity he can demand that the price of gas is not tomorrow, as is an example of some countries in Western and central Eastern Europe, $1000. Imagine if the price of gas from the current $270 per cubic bit would rise to $1,000? Imagine it grows to 600, 700 dollars? What effect would that have on investors who rushed to Serbia? Look, Serbia has over 60% of total foreign direct investment in the territory of the entire Western Balkans. How much would that discourage new investors who want to come and invest here in Serbia? But that's the main difference between those who would probably accept it just for someone to touch down or those who are criticising all of our capital projects today, who don't care if the Serbian citizens have an increase in info bills by 50%, 70% or 100%. They and this so-called opposition that, as far as we can see, they want to team up, and they're jumping off some bridges, maybe those bridges they built and built up, and they're probably another cost of costing these bridges, and they've found and they're criticizing the subway. They also criticised "Belgrade on Water". They are also criticising the construction of highways and are likely to criticise Vukic when he comes here at a good price and among the best gas prices in all of Europe, because they have no policy, because they absolutely do not know how to run the state, and ultimately they do not care. Twelve years of the rule of Gilas, Jeremic and their concubines have spent on destroying the entire state sector and state-owned companies through robbery privatisation, through the speculan capital that has entered Serbia and destroyed many of the industries, unlike us who are besides some traditional industries, such as the textile industry, such as tourism, have succeeded, thanks to one strategically thought-out policy, to raise the information technologies in our country, the digitalisation process. People are coming and companies from Western Europe are coming to learn here from Serbia, to watch, to see how we have implemented the digitalisation process, and no one can be surprised enough that Serbia today has more than 1.4 billion euros in real, or products and incomes from information technologies. What does that tell you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues? That Serbia has people, that Serbia has highly educated and highly qualified personnel. Why is the Wolf doing all this? To keep them here, to make a profit here, to make their families, to start their families here, to give birth to children here in Serbia, because as much as we are today, we will not be successful and I congratulate you on that, and I think it is one of the best finance ministers in Europe, but we can't make progress if we have a smaller number of residents year by year, if there are fewer of us. If we have a potential labour problem, every strategy, the knowledge you definitely have, the good teams that run all segments in this country won't be enough to replace what will be needed in the future and what will be the biggest, in fact, most valuable resource, which is the people we have, and that's why this country so much, you mentioned, I don't want to repeat it, invests in health, invests in education, invests in all those segments and so-called soft infrastructures, to keep people, to keep us more, because that's the only way we can survive as a state. Of course, we want this country to be rich as a party, to be a country of wealthy families and individuals. We want opportunities for all people living here in Serbia. Of course, everyone else is also welcome and that's what separates it, which makes a clear distinction between Vukic and all the others who, unfortunately, led this country about 30, 40, and 50 years back, because they did so during the Socialist regime that our destruction was so easy. We didn't even notice it through a planned and socialist economy. We didn't notice how much atrophic we have as people, as companies, and, of course, 1990, 1989, we unpreparedly welcomed the collapse of the Berlin Wall, and those in the past 30 years, who are definitely ignorant, who used all the resources of this country to fill their pockets, we won't allow it anymore because we love this country and we want this country not to be the same in poverty, but the country where young people are, where there is a market, where they're fighting for their existence, but where they have opportunities, whether they're going to work in IT, whether they're going to work in the tourism industry, whether they're going to work in trade, whether they're going to open their company and we want it to go quickly, we want it to go dynamically, that it's going to go easy and it's already going to Serbia. We're obviously not aware of what dynamics we've been making and how much we've actually done in the past few years and of course we're going to fight and of course we're going to be fighting in April of the month, with strong work, with what I was just talking about, along with the subway project... All those smart guys, all those cybers who today at 12 pm or 12:30 pm, as long as it is, protesting or drinking coffee afterwards, drinking cappuccinos, we're working for that time. Why didn't they do it? Why didn't they give a shit about the subway? Why didn't they use and bring Belgrade to the water? Why didn't they do it for 60, 70 years? Nobody did it to Wolfie. Now to get to power, you get in front of the National Assembly, or I don't know where they're gonna go today, put whistles in their mouths, or carry pots, and that... Obviously these people have either extra money or extra time, but we live and we want to create a society where people are going to race, fight who's going to work more, who's going to make more money, who's going to make more results, whose company is going to be better. This makes SNS, competition among people with equal chances and where their quality of life will depend on them, not on the oligarchs, not on the tycoon, not on anyone on the side, but on themselves. You've said well, Minister Mali, and I agree with you completely, the SNS and our political and economic doctrine is directed, of course, at an ordinary man, but not through the fact that we're spreading some populism, telling someone that we're going to give him something, that we're going to forgive him. No, we're giving him a chance to work, we're giving him a chance to get a job, he's got a good profit, and no one can convince me that people aren't happy in Pancheva, where there's a net net net profit of 1,700 euros in Brose. No one can convince me they're bad and they'll say they have weak opportunities in their town. We built all the cities, those cities that the tycoon-Oligar political coalition forgot. They didn't even know they existed. Ask them if they know what Vladic's Han is and if they've ever been there and if Vuk Jeremic, the world's president, has gone to Vladic's Han, and we've brought "Teklas". We brought an investment there and made sure that several hundred families lived and worked and stayed in the region, from southern Serbia, from the eastern Serbia, which today lived, which today has roads. Now, that's Serbia we want, that's Serbia that we want to make our next vision of our President Alexander Vukic, fighting like him 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year, for this country, because we have taken a serious job in leading this country and we want to make this country an opportunity and everything that belongs to these citizens and this people, which President Aleksandar Vukic recognized, and of course, we will follow it here in Parliament and, of course, you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia strongly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10770	Thank you, Professor Marinkovic. The word has Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10771	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, above all, I would like to thank you for this information you gave us just from our President Alexander Vukic's conference. I think that there is both information, but above all the decisions that have been made and which will be made tomorrow at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are very important in financial terms, but above all, in a message that we send both as a state and as a nation in the first place for young mothers, young parents, by increasing some funds for a newborn child. It is certainly a message to young people that they should stay here, that they should work in this country and that every day will get better and better. Other information that the government will bring to tomorrow's session, and as far as new sports clubs are concerned, is also important, because given that our athletes and real and biggest ambassadors of our country are in that positive sense, it certainly also says that it is a good decision and that it should be done. The fact that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic did what he did in Portugal before we started our team at the football match against Portugal may also not be in financial terms, how much more important it is in that message both to footballers and to the team, but also to all of us, how significant it is, and we know that it has just returned multiple with that game, with that victory both in the world and with us. So much for that part. We have a united debate on several draft laws, a broad range of proposals from various areas. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that the MP group of the United Pensioners of Serbia PUPS -- the "Tri P" in the voting day will support these laws and other proposals from this session and vote for it. In today's debate, most of all, there are a series of accompanying laws that are traditionally adopted each year with the budget and make it an unbreakable continent and I will briefly look back at some, just some of them, which I think are more important and more important. First of all, there is an amendment to the Law on the Budgetary System, which is most interested in the public, because it regulates the increase in the income of public sector employees. This time for 2022, an increase in earnings is foreseen for 8% of employees in the Ministry of Defence, health institutions employed in social protection institutions, in criminal sanctions institutions, while other public sector employees will increase by 7%, which must be recognised as a significant increase in these pandemic conditions. The Law on Income Tax provides for an increase in the non-taxable share of earnings from 18,300 dinars to 19,300 dinars and more importantly, to continue with the programme of return of part of the income tax for newly employed persons in 2022. The property tax law provides certain additions which aim to further specify and comply with everyday practice existing solutions. There are particularly important additions in Article 16, which specify the basis of the gift tax when it comes to motor vehicles, because it has proved that a significant number of our citizens have been unwittingly using the long-term indetermination of our legal system in this segment of liability relations and that under the cover of the gift contract they transfer property over motor vehicles hidden from the fact that they are selling their taxes. This is not only the act of law enforcement, but the hidden customers themselves are exposed to the potential subsequent risk of being left without a motor vehicle and without the money they gave him in a hiding place, which is probably not what any of them think about when they engage in such activities. The amendments to the Law on corporate income tax seek to achieve a better engagement of property rights as a capital that is invested in companies by establishing the possibility that those taxpayers who import these rights into a company do not have to include in the tax base for taxing profits if such rights do not alienate a company for at least two years. The Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance has made a reduction in the contribution rate for pension and disability insurance from 25.5% to 25%, which is even more relevant to data on the stability of the PIO Fund's financing, which we have stated in the 2022 budget debate, but are even more significant complements that will continue with the programmes of various pay-backs on this basis in 2022, and in particular that new employees who have not worked from 2019 to February 2022 will not be paid contributions for pension and disability insurance by employers until December 2024, but these contributions will be paid from the Republic budget. This is indeed a huge incentive for hiring new staff in the economy, and we hope that it will give its full effect in the coming period, a team before it is on the other side of the part of the directly depriving income of the PIO Fund with which it could have even more positive direct financial indicators of its work. Also, as part of today's joint search, there is a law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget. We have done a great deal of work a while ago by adopting in this House all the laws on the final accounts of the budget since 2002, which has been carried out not only by one legal, but also by a constitutional obligation that has not been done for decades. It's a good thing we and the Resort Ministry of Finance and the rest of the authorities have caught a real rhythm after that big deal so that this final bill for last year is adopted in the next one, i.e. This calendar year, which means that there are no delays and deadlines in this matter, and we hope that this practice will continue in the future. As for the specific data found in the law, I'm not going to say that they themselves are ideal. The budget deficit in 2020 was not small for known reasons and I already said in the last budget debate why it was so. However, we can still be satisfied by the positive indicators in this final account, and they are such that despite the difficulties, the revenues achieved in the end are more than 10 billion in total than those planned for other budget rebalances for 2020, and that the expenditures made on the other side are almost 20 billion dinars lower than planned, and finally the total fiscal deficit instead of the planned 483 billion dinars. This savings may not seem so large compared to the very size of the deficit, but I also noted in the budget debate that the new draft budget for 2022 is planning to split the amount of the budget deficit. When you look at details by users, it is evident that almost all state authorities and institutions financed from the budget have achieved lower costs than those planned. We can ask ourselves how much the pandemic of the crown affected this, and how much self-awareness of the users of these funds, or how much further this savings has affected the quality of work and service provision, but if spoken from a purely fiscal aspect we should hope to see the same trends when the final budget for this year comes on the agenda. Two legislative solutions under discussion today outside the direct area of state finances are amendments and additions to the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government and the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development. The first proposal for amendments and additions deals primarily with the harmonisation of this law with solutions previously adopted in the Law on civil servants relating to the Republic authorities and it is good that these amendments finally bring together the system of working relations and rights and responsibilities of employees at both levels, both local and state level. In this second legislative proposal, the Agriculture Act, there are several newspapers, they are first recognised as a special type of agricultural land, and those holdings that are primarily not engaged in agriculture, but are an act of activity on rural tourism and the preservation of old crafts, and will also be able to benefit from incentive programmes. Newly founded cooperatives that have had the opportunity to encourage the ministry of village care will now have new incentives from other ministries as well. Furthermore, this law recognizes the so-called so-called law. the leader of the IPARD programme. How Minister Nedimovic explained in his statement that by the end of the year a new IPARD programme of Three is being signed providing substantial funds from European funds. This allows for stronger and more efficient networking of natural and legal persons through the so-called so-called ". local action groups that can work on different rural development programmes which are also defined by these amendments and amendments to the law, so that the parties can compete and receive significantly more aid than individuals themselves. On the other hand, these changes and additions were more specifically prescribed by the IPARD programme and funds procedure, especially by the more detailed procedure with an irregular request and an extended time-limit for the adjustment from eight to 20 days, then the introduction of already approved projects in certain cases of changes, so that an advance payment of 50% of the previously approved amount can be requested in addition to the bank guarantee. What I think is one not so good indicator of the current state of affairs are proposed changes in Article 8g. where the obligations of those using the IPARD programme have far more to be prescribed than the obligation of plant and livestock production, through processing, and with respect to veterinary sanitary regulations in accordance with the programme for which the funds and incentives have been received. The users of the funds from these programmes, but all of us as a society in general, must finally get rid of this unfortunate way of reasoning, that if someone has received some help from the state that he no longer has any concrete obligation to it, i.e. to the donor. This is more important, because this is about international funds and it is known that various kinds of assistance can be obtained in the EU, but it is also very insisting on the responsible spending of that money, literally up to the last cent given. Not only do such individuals and businessmen thus embarrass themselves and in the future exclude themselves from further participation in such projects, but our country abroad is also being further blacked out as a place that is insecure for business, so of which we all have damages. Finally, we also have confirmation of two international agreements. While the first refers to regulation of certain obligations of our membership in the IMF, the second concerns the taking of a loan from our country to the German Development Bank of 22m euros for the first phase of the integrated waste management project in the cities of Kruševec and Vranj. I don't think it's necessary to explain in more detail how important it is to start realising these projects in these two big cities of ours as soon as possible. And this government once again shows that it has really committed itself to solving the complex problem of environmental protection, and it remains for citizens of these places to have their own awareness of the importance of having a better environment and to help them get to it. Dear Members of Parliament, since we see that in most parts of the agenda, there are laws that make up a complementary continent with the already discussed draft budget law for 2022, without which its application would not be possible as planned, and as we have already found that it is a real and measured budgetary solution, the PUPS Group "Tri P" will give its support in the day of voting for the adoption of these laws, as well as the other few laws that have been discussed in today's joint debate. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group "Tri P" will vote in favour of other proposals and legal solutions, discussed at this session and voted "yes". Dear friends, respected citizens of Serbia, respected ministers with associates, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10772	I would like to thank the authorised representative of the PUPS Group "Tri P". Since we no longer have registered presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The first is MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10773	I thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Ministers, distinguished associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I was elected here in the Assembly from the list “Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children” and I represent the United Peasant Party, whose president I am. I have also been an MP in previous years, and as a man, I have always supported all those proposals concerning development, the progress of our Serbia, the development of small environments, the support of agriculture, the village, the support of small municipalities that are in a difficult situation, municipalities that are waved in eastern Serbia. Here, yesterday we adopted a budget that gives greater support to investment, greater support to agriculture, greater support to the economy. It's all put into the budget and the percentages show exactly how much it stands out. Just before we heard our president, Alexander Vukic, who said some of the things that are most important to us, which is investing in birth, in our families, in our marriage communities, where it will be possible for the first time now to single out 300,000 dinars for each newborn child, it is for the first-born child. It's something that means, a big deal for all those young families, for all those married friends who want to have children, it's going to be a big help to them. For each other, the third and other children will surely be more investment and greater separations than ever before. I think as a man who comes from one environment, where Srljig is one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, who is demographically one of the most endangered, where there is a really large population of older people, we were like a community at a time when I was president of the municipality, and we were singled out for both the marriage community and the newborn children, and that was good. That's how we stimulated the birth rate a little bit. This policy, led by our Serbian President, Aleksandar Vucic, is really a policy that puts development first, helping the family and will certainly deliver results. What matters to me is that this will certainly have the help of both marriage communities and young people who will have the opportunity to have children to stay in Srlig. It would be good, normally, if that program were to allocate a little more resources for those families, for those children born in those small environments, where the demographic image is really bad. We need to find the possibility to be more isolated, because there is a difference for those who live in these environments like Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, and the municipalities that are mountainous and where there are many old people, to stay there to live, to stay there to work. Here, yesterday, respected finance ministers, yesterday in Svrlig, was the building minister, Mr. Momirovic, where they launched a procedure yesterday to solve the sewerage network, where we received close to fivem euros from our state and the Chinese government. That's what we're going to focus on for the construction of a sewer network, for the treatment of wastewater, we're going to build a wastewater factory. It's a big thing for a small environment, to be stimulated in this way. We're among the 10 municipalities that started doing this. The president himself said that there is no difference whether Svrlig, whether there is a place near Belgrade or near Saturday, it is important that we all get even in this way, that we want to have even regional development. That's what our government is working on, that's what our Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is working on, and so are we all who want to work on it. Once again, I thank the president of Serbia, who announced this activity of our government, the future and present, for 20-25 years, investment in infrastructure, where we will see to it that everyone is able to have sewers, water, sewerage to every village, to every house. This is very important, because our small environments, such as Srljig and those surrounding municipalities located in southeastern Serbia, located in the north, in western Serbia, in central Serbia, will have the opportunity to deal with tourism tomorrow. The community I come from, it's a god-given community for tourism, beauty is really big. We have, I can say, since the president has also announced that funds will be allocated to sports, at the session of the government that will be tomorrow, funds will be allocated to clubs, whether they are caratists, techvondo or any other sporting activity, for these clubs will be allocated funds. I must say, since just before counterpart Stosic said that our president gave moral support to our players who managed to defeat Portugal, that he was the selector of that team Dragan Stojkovic Pixie, who comes from Nis, from Pasi Poljana. I have to say, and that's not what I said last time, that we have a young football team selector from my municipality, and that's Dejan Brankovic, who's qualified now for the second round of the European Championship. That's something very good. So we have the possibility, we have people who are really good, who are good, now, is it Svrlig, whether Nis, whether Belgrade, is not important, it's important that we have people who promote our country in the best way, where in every respect we see what's worth coming from us, and that's all the people who come from Serbia. The second part about agriculture, the increase in the agricultural budget, is something that is very good and that we will have the opportunity to provide better conditions for investing in agriculture. Now we have the Ministry of the Village, where it was a few days ago, I think it was 50 cooperatives that received the funds, from southeastern Serbia there were 20 cooperatives, from Nis Five, from Srljig three cooperatives received funds to work on cooperatives, to rebuild the house. These are all positive things that we have to continue. One of the important things for all of us is business, investment in the economy through the Development Fund, through the ministry, by bringing investors, by stimulating. Now we have been stimulated to give up certain things that the state has had so far, and to leave it to the businessmen so that they can function more easily, the minimum labour price increases. It's something that's never been before, it's a big need. I also thank the state of Serbia and the president of Serbia and the government once again for wanting to do so. I think it would be good to have municipalities, such as my community from which I come and such municipalities as the fourth group, i.e. the fifth group of underdevelopment, that in such municipalities we have greater releases, that there is an incentive for greater liberation for businessmen who want to open jobs, to get out of that stage of underdevelopment, that there can be more investment and that it can work there. (President: Time. ) For the end, I would once again like to thank everyone, especially the president of Serbia, our government. I will vote in favour of the proposals of these laws, because they are positive, because they are good, which gives the opportunity to develop our Serbia and help every man. In the end, as an MP and as president of the United Peasants' Party and as a Orthodox, I congratulate all of our citizens who celebrate the glory of Mrat today, may glory be happy, may health and happiness be in the house, both in the house and in the field, that there is development. Once again, today is a marking of 85 years from the founding of the Veterinary College. Without livestock, there's no agricultural development, and where there's livestock, there's a veterinary service. (President: I thank you. ) Happy fame and 80 years since the development of the Veterinary Faculty, all the best, lived Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10774	The time foreseen for your parliamentary group has been spent. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10775	I won't vote for the Excreation Act, i.e. to amend and supplement that law. As defined, it is a law for the rapid and effective kidnapping of the property of our citizens for the sake of public interest. If it were for the sake of public interest, it could be understood, because sometimes it's really the interest of all citizens above the interest of private property rights. But why don't the people who demonstrated yesterday in front of our assembly believe it's in the public interest? Because the policy of "European Union has no alternative", which our finance minister, Mr. Mali, is guaranteed through several regimes, is such that, as you like to say, the people who led the yellow regime privatised the economy, you are moving to privatise the state, and you are building a legal infrastructure that those who come after you and continue the policy "European Union has no alternative" privatise people, people and bring us into what is called slavery. When I say that people don't believe you that this is in the public interest, I would just remind you that a notary was introduced during your government. So, instead of court certifications and taxes going to the state budget, they go into private persons' pockets and very serious taxes. Then famous perpetrators were introduced who peeled the people's skin from their backs and brought us back to the time of the Turkish occupation. Then, foreign banks robbing our citizens through imaginary services. Several times they received support from you and have not yet completed the process of extracting them from responsibility for the robbery of citizens. In the end, you're about to vote for the dispensation of national sovereignty from the election of judges, to actually make one Sudocracy that no one will control anymore, but only the American embassy and some other Western embassies and domestic tycoons and foreign corporations. So, that's why people don't believe this is in the public interest, and that's why it's pointless for the procedure to be quick and efficient, if that means kidnapping someone's property in someone's private interest. Why shouldn't procedures be effective? The Constitution says that the courts are prohibited. What makes you think, colleague, that they're banned from court? Because broken courts make quick and effective decisions on other people's rights, basic human rights, and often quickly and maliciously violate those rights. The right to property is one of the rights which is the basis of every freedom. So we don't need quick and efficient procedures, no matter what the answer is to domestic tycoons and foreign corporations, but if we were representatives of the people, we would try to make these actions fair first of all. That's why this law is problematic, and that's why when we look at all this, and when we go through the law itself, we'll see that in Article 2. The amendment and supplementation proposal says that in the commercial land, aside from three years of withdrawal for the needs of expropriation users, and count on it to be called foreign corporations and domestic tycoons, plus that it can happen for another three years. Article 5 provides for what everyone complains about and says that Rio Tinto is concerned, and I also don't think that Rio Tinto is the user of this law, because Rio Tinto bought his property, but in Serbia there are another 300 mining corporations that operate, which are controlled by just our five mining inspectors. There are decent corporations among them, but there are predators like Rio Tinto. Article 5 states exactly that such an expropriation procedure can also be applied in case the Republic of Serbia is a signator of an international contract as one of the Contracting Parties. Who do you think the other side of the contract is? Of course, in Article 10, you will see that there is a possibility that the state body implementing the expropriation will appoint a temporary representative to the person who owns the property, who has passed away and the heirs have not yet completed the desert procedure. You may think that when a judicial order is made and in such a judiciary, these people will exercise their right to kidnapped property, and the authority that implements the abduction of property determines who should protect them and represent them. These are specific things I'm not going to vote for in this law. Now I have one obligation, given to me by citizens who object to this law, since I am now the only opposition MP in this room, to read the letter they sent to the MPs, as some kind of shell warning. "Members of the People's Parliament, we address you with a request that you vote on the laws that make up the lives of Serbian citizens as people whom the people have sent to the National Assembly, not as representatives of party policy and any of their interests. The proposed amendments to the Expropriation Act and the Law on Referendum will allow people to move away from their property under reduced procedures, to take away, for the needs of foreign companies by force, houses and gardens, to take away from the wastelands of forests, vineyards, orchards, fields with records, roads where children go to school, juicers who lead the people to worship, to place fences and mine gates in front of rivers, streams and springs. Today, moving and suppressing entire villages is our nightmare. Tomorrow, there will be no one who knows who, perhaps yours. We understand the planned projects will not only harm us, but also the people who live in the surrounding places, small and large. It is clear to you and to us that Serbia's best experts, including the Academy of Science, have declared that the irreparable damage caused by projects that destroy nature, and it is clear that these laws allow damage to be done easily, quickly and without the right of the people to ask questions about it. It is clear to us that the only thing that will judge this people will be your raised hand that votes on behalf of all of us. We wish you that hand tomorrow when you return home you can provide your parents and heirs with no shame. We wish you when you come among the people, your family and neighbors to call you a human God, to tell you – hello and – good day with a sincere desire for God to help you, to serve you health and to have a good day go by that good night means that you can really sleep, because you know that you have done everything you can to make others live like people and to think of you as people. It's for the little empire, the parliamentary mandates are small from the little one, and about what is always and forever you know it yourself. Cheers and every good thing. The Union of Environmental Organisations of Serbia. “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10776	The word has a finance minister, Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10777	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, I simply have to react, given the great amount of untruth and lies you've had the opportunity to hear. So the laws and laws that you are discussing today and we are discussing are aimed at Serbia's progress, in favour of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. In no way has anyone ever been denied any right. As the president today has said, and this law, the Expropriation Act is in accordance with the Constitution of our country. Just stop lying and stop misleading Serbian citizens to have anything hidden in there, that any rights of which have been denied in any way. So every Serbian citizen's rights are respected at the highest possible level. Always, as you know, the procedure is to make an assessment of the Tax Administration, or Public Revenue Administration. Every time the state expunged something, it always paid, even more than what the administration says, just to make people happy. Let me ask you, shall we stop all these investments we're talking about? Are we or are you against building highways, building new hospitals and new schools? You shouldn't be. Tell me one person who has so far been damaged, whose country has not paid for what the solution has been defined or what it is, after all, and agreed. What we do not want to allow, as the president has set an example today, is that half a year stands for building a highway because of some desire for someone to seek a higher price five times and that they think they're right. To be completely honest and open to you, we do not want to allow it, with all the rights that we respect for that person, but I ask you to stop lying and to deceive the public into taking someone's property, taking away property, without compensation or any more, and especially that this law is related to "Rio Tinto", since it is not. Nor does it have anything to do with "Rio Tinto", as you have the opportunity to hear from a large number of people in a large number of tycoon media. They don't have people to talk about, they don't have politics, they don't have projects, they don't have anything to offer the people, and then every time something's done, they just show up and say something. So, what President Vukic said today, repeatedly, at this point we are waiting for the documents from Rio Tinta, waiting to see their proposal, so let's do the necessary analysis, and let's define whether it's good or not, and then we'll go ahead to you, in front of the citizens of Serbia to ask if, what, we'll do. So no decision for Rio Tinto will happen and will be made without the Serbian citizens deciding on it. Stop lying, stop fooling people about something going on, behind the hill, hides, as it is, when it's not happening. Once again, any decision concerning Rio Tinto will be made by the citizens of Serbia and no one else. Wait till we see what this is about, when it comes to Rio Tinto.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10778	Right on line, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10779	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Unlike the man who led the session yesterday, an unworthy vice president, you respect the Rules of Procedure, and that is why I try to always be polite in my presentation and not to call my political opponents liars. So I think the minister would have to take a little care of how he treats the MPs in this house. Believe it or not, they should be his employers, not the party he belongs to. So, I don't know exactly what I lied about, and where I mentioned the minister was just that it belonged to the former regimes that implemented EU policy has no alternative. I don't know, but I think it's bad. Doesn't mean it's an insult. He said several times yesterday that I was lying, he tied me up with political organizations I never belonged to, unlike him. Many people in this SNS room fought with me against the regime when Mr. Minister was on that side and besides, I address him with special respect because he is Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I won't say what I think of him personally, but the minister's office must be respected. So I would ask him to respect the MPs, regardless, even if it was one of the MPs of the opposition. I just don't believe it's supposed to be the way we communicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10780	The word is Minister Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10781	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, I would agree with you, Mr. Glissic, if you would stop lying again. I was neither a member of the previous regime nor an advocate of the EU having or having no alternative, I was employed by the state administration. I was never a member of any party other than SNS, and I'm proud of that. You lied again. So much for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10782	We're concluding a circle of replicas. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll be back to work at 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10783	Dear People's MPs, we continue with the afternoon session, since a representative of the government is present. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10784	The Honorable Chairman, Mrs Kovac, the Honorable Sir, Minister Nedimovic, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen MPs, respected citizens, today when we heard the phenomenal plans and announcements announced by President Vukic about demographics, co-operation with Russia, about KIM, Petrochemy, gas, we can only send one huge thank you to the state's Vucic. Of course, I will thank both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and Mr Nedimovic for everything they do for our country and their performance in this Assembly and in general public implore, impress, as well as their work ethic and elan, and I will tell them – thank them, and thank all the members of the Government. So, I'm going to talk about the draft law on the final budget account and the budget system and, of course, about the budget. Serbia's budget for the year that we adopted yesterday, I will best explain to the citizens that citizens hear, among other things, that I will do it through two examples. One concerns the subway, which is otherwise run through our budgets, and the other concerns construction of the railroad, for example. from Belgrade to Budapest, which is also going to go through our budgets for years. So, the day before yesterday, the construction of a section of this railway that I mentioned from Novi Sad to Kelebija, so the Belgrade-Budapest railway, began, and to mention that the first section of the railway that was practically completed from Belgrade to Novi Sad soon ended. So the budget for this year itself is extremely projected and is aimed at raising the standard of living and strengthening the economy, and these two projects and the budget are only part of the phenomenal results of Serbia's government. I'll briefly, since it's in some relationship with this, next year there's going to be elections, just to say that while we're working on the budget on these two projects, the construction of the subway is beginning, the construction of the Budapest-Belgrade railway and thousands of capital projects, let's see what this, in that time, is going to be short, the Gilasian part of the opposition that sinks into chaos. So, four parties to the opposition's extreme part, the SAA, DS, PSG and NS, have been unable to agree for months, so over a year, whether or not they will come up with next year's election in 2022. So, in particular, they argue unmistakably over the quotas for the elections and who will be the candidates for the main positions, since we have elections for the president, parliamentary elections and there will be elections in Belgrade, the mayor of Belgrade will essentially be elected. How important this issue is to them is witnessed just the day before yesterday when President Vukic is brief, opening up the construction of this railway I mentioned, from Novi Sad to Saturday, i.e. Until Kelebia, he mentioned briefly that these parties cannot, this extreme part of the opposition cannot agree on anything. They're gargled, so it's the next day, i.e. Yesterday they launched a false news report that they made a deal. That it's false news and they didn't agree at all, although it's not too important, but it's important that we see them lying about this little thing that they agreed on, so you can imagine how they're just telling the truth when they satanicize power from Serbia. So, not to agree on the testimony of Miroslav Aleksic, Borko Stefanovic, exactly everything on their media, and what is the worst testimony and yesterday's almost incredible statement by Vuk Jeremic on TV "N1", which of course confirmed that the deal was missing. However, Mr. Jeremic said that he, Gilas and Lutovac as the next best solution, watch out, quote him – should jump off the bridge. I mean, it sounds amazing that he said it, but he said it. So, I appeal - don't jump off the bridge, Mr. Jeremic, Mr. Gilas and Mr. Lutovac, don't jump off the bridge, don't propagate suicide. So your lives are as valuable as any other life of course. You simply need to change something in your policies, the solution of course is not suicide. As you can see, dear citizens, these can't agree to a deal. Today, I'm going to end up in this part, so I'm going to continue with the budget, and today they said she's appreciated Marinika, that she's going to lead Gilas's list. This means exactly the following, the first point of the program of these four parties i.e. The Gilasian opposition will be Marinika's programme, which says it is Serbia and that the Serb people are genocide. That's the first point of their program. Then the question arises with what I mentioned, does Gilas, Jeremic and Lutovac want to jump off the bridge? Look out, we with SNS are gonna jump. But we're going to jump on April 3rd next year when for the hundredth time we win the election, we're going to jump out of luck, and this defeated next year, I'm asking that taxes don't jump off the bridge, they're going to get lessons and change politics a little bit, they're going to get better. So the budget and the final account, with this in mind, what is very significant is that there have been structural, fundamental improvements in the past year, and these improvements concern these very two, among other things, infrastructure projects that I'm going to say something about. So it concerns the development of road and rail infrastructure. Otherwise, just to mention that GDP growth in the previous year was fantastic 7% and that this fact, with all the other economic results, says that we are among the first three fastest growing economies in Europe. So next year, otherwise Serbia expects a 4.5% growth, which is very important in this crisis. The following year, the prime minister stressed, 486 billion dinars for capital investment will be allocated from the budget. So these are highways, railways, subways, fast traffic, national stadium, vaccine factory, i.e. more vaccine factories, completion of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, construction and reconstruction of a large number of schools, kindergartens and also for the construction of sewers networks. What is significant in Belgrade, since I am an MP from Belgrade, will be built, it has already started, the construction of huge wastewater treatment plants will continue. First of all in Belgrade, but also in other cities, since it is a shame to pollute both the Danube and Sava and other rivers. There will also be a general arrangement of dumps throughout Serbia. What we see coming to an end is, say, a dump in Belgrade, where it is very close to the end of building huge energy and heat and recycling factories, and the existing dump is practically 100% rehabilitated. Otherwise, to mention that the average profit at the end of this year will certainly be 610 euros, and in 2022, the standard of living will continue to grow. As of January 1st, which is extremely significant for our citizens, an increase in pensions per Swiss formula of 5.5% was planned, and in the total amount of pensions would be said of an increase of 11.2%. Of course, an increase in public sector wages was planned on average of 7.3%, mainly 8% for military, police, health and social workers and 7% for other employees. Of course, we're going to get an increase, and that's very significant, minimal earnings by 9.4%. This time, for the first time in Serbia's history, the minimum wage will be over 35,000 dinars. So that's 300 euros, which is twice as much compared to what the minimumer was in the life of Djilas and Tadic in 2011, when the minimumer was 15,700 dinars. So in Serbia, otherwise, it's very significant, over the past 12 months, 60,000 jobs have been opened. These three packages of measures that have been under way to help the economy and citizens in the past and this year amounted to over eight billion euros. What I mentioned at the beginning, and this is directly related to this budget, President Vukic announced an hour and a half ago a series of fantastic news and this concerns how the budget will start to pay off next year. So, as of January 1st, the state of Serbia will pay 300,000 dinars for the first child to mothers, instead of 100,000. We'll encourage simple mothers to give birth. And for another child, help will be increased, because another child is some kind of turning point in this policy. And as we know that many cities give up to 100,000 additional dinars to help, we will have assistance to families for the first child of about four thousand euros next year. Of course, what is significant is that great incentives have been announced for students of future parents and for pregnant women and their partner will not be valid test deadlines at this time. So the time of pregnancy and postpartum time will count as the students of the parents of the college ended on a regular basis, which is quite correct. The state will give, and this is an extremely significant, non-refundable aid between 10,000 and 20,000 euros to young married couples for the purchase of apartments, and property rights, which is also fantastic, will be registered to the mother. President Vukic said well – this motivates young people to leave their parents' home early. This will further boost housing. This is just part of the demographics taken by this country, just so we don't die out. Because all that we do here and all that the state is doing in this decade, it's all, my dears, for nothing if for 50 or 100 years, there is no longer practically a population living in this area, which is now Serbian, Hungarian, with all those minorities, Albanians and Roma, who are currently living in Serbia, but to empty Serbia. So that's why it's capitalizing. Now I'm going to say something about the Belgrade Metro. In the beginning of the day before the construction of his depot in the Macedonian field, construction of the Belgrade Metro finally began after 53 years of various promises by former authorities. It is one of the largest development projects in Serbia. It will be run by about 50 large companies, about 500 small and medium-sized enterprises. That means tens of thousands of new jobs. The first of three subway lines will be completed in 2028 and the second in 2030. Metro will change Belgrade's face in many ways, but of course Serbia. The building of the subway is historically important and is an absolute priority. The Belgrade Metro, of course, is the Belgrade transport system that will enable it, it will be a sustainable system, an environmentally acceptable and energy-efficient type of traffic, the subway system, unlike various previous plans, will for the first time be a high-capacitate rail system that will be complemented and fitted with the BG train and the tramway system. The subway plan, of course, predicts three lines. That's important to hear. So, Makish - Mirijevo is the first, Depo – Bezanija - Mirijevo second and Banjica - Block 61- Bezanija is the third line. All three lines will be 63 kilometers long. The railway infrastructure in Belgrade, which will also be invested, is directed towards further modernisation and the planned expansion of the BG train. It will be, planned, done with another 37km of track and more new stations and stops. As the tram system expands, it is projected to spread to both forest and forest areas and to the Banatian part of the city in the total length in the future of 42km. Now another parallel again. In five years, Gilas otherwise announced that he would build a metro from 2008 to 2013, and in that period of five years he did not literally stab a single shaft to build a metro. Then Belgrade and Serbia signed with the French some pre-contracts, contracts and nothing, of course, was done. As it was originally set up, I'll tell you that somewhere in 2011 a contract was signed on the purchase of a subway car whose construction hasn't even started yet. Good luck, when Gilas was changed in 2013, it was hitched. Because you're buying cars, and you haven't adopted them yet, and you're not sure it's that big a track or anything. Otherwise, let me mention, city councilman Gilas, this has been going on for seven years, not to attend meetings of the City Assembly, does not work, does not use the two mandates given to him by citizens, and is neatly receiving money for labour. So shame on him! And those who had the opportunity for five years to build this metro and start building it have the cheeks to come to the Maquis field and prevent the building of the subways. By the way, remember that statement he made, Gilas claimed that he wasn't being replaced to drive his methroom today. Look out, it's a harmless lie. Had Gilas remained in power, of course, he would not have earned those 619m euros, he would have earned a billion euros, Belgrade's debt would have probably, if he had remained in power, increased to two billion euros, and in Belgrade, Gilas, if he had remained in power, instead of the real one, built a replica of a metro like that, you remember, a replica of the terrace that was torn down, collapsed itself, and then had to be removed. A few weeks ago, Dragan Gilas called all Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija criminals. So he who has zero support in Kosovo and Metohija, and the Serb list 99%, he calls Serbs criminals. But then we ask whether Gilas will experience disaster in the next election, for example in Belgrade, and when SNS wins 50% in Belgrade, will Gilas Beogradians then call criminals? Now, the Belgrade railway -- Budapest -- which is also part of last year's budget, as well as next year's budget. So it's the largest and most valuable project in Southeast Europe, totaling around four billion euros, of which two billion euros are in Serbia's territory, and the investment of the Belgrade-based shares -- Novi Sad, which ends, I said, is worth about $850m, and this future share of Novi Sad -- Saturday will be worth about $16 billion. When the railway is completed to Budapest and we will be there in less than three hours at the end of 2024 or no later than the beginning of 2025. Now soon from Belgrade to Novi Sad on this track that ends in 25 minutes. These tracks are reconstructed and built in fact by Russian and Chinese companies and the speed of trains will be mainly 200 kilometers per hour. Let me remind you, from Belgrade to Budapest, it's six hours from now. Works on Belgrade-Novi Sad's route began in February 2019 and ended as the construction of a fast track from Belgrade to Novi Sad enters the final phase, the construction of this section of Novi Sad and Subotica began yesterday in the length of 108km and is due for the end of 33 months. A total of 49 underpasses, overpasses and similar facilities will be built in Novi Sad, and President Aleksandar Vukic said on the road from Novi Sad to the Hungarian border that will be built on a total of 49 underpasses, overpasses and similar facilities, and President Aleksandar Vukic said earlier yesterday that the fast track share from Novi Sad to Subotica and to the border with Hungary, which began to be built, would be completed by 2024 and said that Serbia would continue to develop and change for the better. And says President Vukic: "If you don't think about the future, you can't have it," he mentioned that John Golsworthi said. President Vukic thanked the citizens for believing in better and more successful Serbia. He said Serbia will continue to change and that everyone will be proud of our country and believe in the future of its children in Serbia. And I'm done. So, on the other hand, the only Gilasovci programme, and we've seen it a number of years ago, is the destruction of Vukic, the dehumanization of his family, the violence and the opposition of everything the SNS does. And what I just said was best described by a woman, a member of the SAA, who demonstrated against building a subway on the Maquis field when she said on Monday, quote: "We came before our SP party because we oppose everything SNS does," the end of the quote. And that's what it's all about. So Gilas and his men oppose anything that brings progress to Serbia, opposes subways, vaccines, covid hospitals, building all capital projects, raising monuments, everything. I mean, they just don't know where they hit, they don't know what they're doing. And according to Luke’s holy Gospel, I quote: “But Jesus spoke, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. ” I mean, after all, what the Gilasovians are doing isn't so important, it's important that the government from Serbia led by President Vukic and that the SNS, that they all know what they're doing. President Vukic protects Serbia, raises Serbia, builds Serbia, vaccinate Serbia, cures Serbia, heals the past in the present, for the sake of the future. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10785	The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10786	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, honourable ministers with assistants, for us in the SDP equality, social justice and solidarity are the most fundamental postulates on which we insist daily and which we constantly and potential. We also insist on an even distribution of taxes, that the tax be determined according to the property status, i.e. by the power, power and income of our citizens. We are extremely glad that today we have many decisions and solutions that go in that direction. First of all, that is why the head of our parliamentary group, Mr Branimir Jovanovic, at the meeting last month, on 28 October, when the government answered lawmakers, raised a question about paying so-called. taxes on luxury, taxes on vehicles larger cubics, and in fact small values due to their age. He best portrayed this decades - old injustice with one example. He took the example of “pejoa 607, ” which is, for example, 3,000 cubic metres and 2003 are worth around 1,500 euros somewhere on the market. Under the old law, the owner of such a vehicle should pay half the value, or 95,000 dinars, or about 800 euros for one such vehicle, which is really unfair, incorrect, and I must say unsustainable. Therefore, the amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on Use, Holding and Wearing goods that are currently changing these illogicalities that I see here today in front of all of us as one truly common victory, the victory of all of us who are fighting for our citizens to have equal status, equal status, and benefits as well as all of them. Under this new law that is before us today, vehicles between 2,000 and 2,500 cubic meters will be paid 20,387 dinars instead of 70,894 dinars, and for vehicles between 2,500 and 3,000 cc's will be paid 41,314 dinars, and for vehicles over 3,000 cc's will be paid for 85,389 dinars instead of 146,382 dinars. These are really significant reductions and something that is very significant, given that they are older vehicles and that they are mostly people who are not just as rich and who are not able to change vehicles that easily. In the focus of certainly our work of the Social Democrats is a man with his daily problems and we are giving and looking for solutions that are adequate both the situation and the moment. This is exactly the kind of suggestion that makes everyday problems easier for us to demonstrate the concreteity of our policy. I thank the minister once again for a good solution, and the SDP MPs will be happy to support this proposal, which we have partly launched ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10787	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slavenko Unkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10788	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, honourable fellow Members of the People, when it comes to amending and supplementing the Agricultural and Rural Development Act, it is an extremely important law and changes that were lacking in our system of agricultural policy and which are necessary to comply with European regulations. All these years, especially last year and this year, we have seen how important agriculture is for our economic development and that with over 10% of our GDP, we see that in these times of crisis we can rely on agriculture. Just to remind you, and you, Minister, have said that exports for this year have reached about five billion dollars, which is a significant result, given that it was barely at two billion dollars ten years ago. It's a really significant shift and a result. Yesterday we heard from the prime minister that the next year's budget is about 62 billion dinars, which is 10 billion more than this year, or 17.5% more than the initial budget for 2021. This is really a record budget. The subsidies envision 81% of the budget, or 50.6 billion dinars, which is 8.8 billion more than this year. Thirty-two billion are focused on direct payments in agriculture, 6.4 billion for IPARD projects, and about five billion dinars will be allocated for rural development measures. These figures show a very high concern for the state to raise our country's agricultural policy to a higher level. We see there and great potential, but the state must help with various incentives, but also with these changes and additions to existing regulations. The amendments to the law define a software solution for e-agrar and establish a register of agricultural holdings, as a unique electronic centralised record. Electronic procedures shall be introduced in relation to the register, registration procedure, renewal of registration, change and erasure of the register. A new software solution will allow farmers to receive a boost in a shorter period of time, as the processing of objects will take much shorter time and all data exchanges and verifications between registers will take place automatically. Each farmer on his smart phone or computer will simply enter his identification to check at which stage his demands and projects are located, of course, will be able to access all other data on his land. The amendments also specify the provisions relating to the land parcel identification system, as one of the components of the payment system in agriculture. That is why two new applications are introduced – Ajaks, an application that serves to monitor payments in agriculture and Elpis apps, which serves to identify land parcels. The whole process will reflect the change in the work of the Agrarian Payments Authority, i.e. there will be a faster approval of incentives and faster payments. This control system is used by all members of the European Union in implementing the common agricultural policy. The important changes also relate to the introduction of an avantage payment of IPARD subsidies of 50% of the approved investment, thus farmers who have been granted subsidies to the IPARD Fund in advance will receive half of the required money for the investment and these will be a decisive reason for the arrival of investment and withdrawal of funds from IPARD funds. These changes are only part of the changes started to ensure our farmers have the simplest and fastest access to subsidies in order to strengthen our agriculture as much as possible. Agricultural production is not dependent anywhere in the world on the free market, and our country has to establish mechanisms that can ensure the stability of production and market supply, and to that end these amendments to the laws. Today we have a set of tax laws ahead of us, and I'm going to look back briefly on just some of them. The basic content of the proposed changes and the addition of the Law on Income Tax concerns increasing the non-taxable amount of earnings from 18,300 dinars to 19,300 dinars per month, as well as extending the period of application of existing incentives for hiring new persons by the end of next year. Amendments to the law also make it easier for employers who establish a working relationship with new persons directly engaged in research and development activities, it is proposed to introduce a relief for the employer in the form of an exemption from the payment of 70% of the tax charged on earnings ending on 31 December 2024. The reason for the adoption of new amendments to the Law on corporate tax is that, under certain conditions, capital gains resulting from the transfer of intellectual property rights, as copyright or as the right to find, are not included in the corporate tax base. There are significant changes and additions to the property tax law. Notwithstanding whether the transfer of property to a vehicle is carried out with or without compensation, it is proposed that the tax base instead of the market value of the vehicle which is determined by the tax authority constitutes a value determined by the application of the prescribed elements, namely volume, engine power, as well as years of production. Amendments suggest that the taxpayer of the transfer of absolute rights in the transfer of property rights to motor vehicles be the buyer of that vehicle. When it comes to the Tax Act on the Use of Holding and Wearing of Goods, only one change has been proposed, the market value of passenger vehicles over 2,000 cubic metres is more rapidly reduced by age and compared to other vehicles, which is why tax burden is proposed to be reduced. The main reason for this change is that taxation is determined in proportion to the economic power of the obligor. The objective of the Budgetary Inspection Act is to centralise the budgetary inspection in order to increase the number of controls carried out by the inspector. The additions to the law will allow for a comprehensive systematic arrangement of the jurisdiction of the procedure, the work and the authority of the budgetary inspection. The objective is to adapt their activity to the real needs of citizens and to protect public interest, as well as to carry out functional strengthening of the capacity of the budgetary inspection and to clearly specify the conditions for carrying out the tasks of the budgetary inspector. As in many other state inspectors and control bodies here, we have a case and an insufficient number of budgetary inspectors. For example, local units found that in 2020 only 82 budgetary inspectors were employed. Budgetary inspection services were established in 42 local self-governments filled 65 out of 108 systematiced posts for budgetary inspectors, while in 65 units of local self-government there are no established officers of systematiced work for inspectors within these administrations. A particular problem is the average number of controls carried out by an inspector that is below all norms, which is precisely the centralisation provided for by these changes will contribute to a greater number of average controls per inspector. Amendments to the law also define that the tasks of the budgetary inspection can only be carried out by persons who have a narrow education of the economic legal profession for at least four years. Most of our inspections have a problem with the lack of employees in this situation contributed to the decision to ban employment, so the number of inspectors in Serbia is three to four times less than the EU average. Our country's goal is to have a well-organized public administration and it must be made up of professional and motivated and well-paid personnel. For JS all today's proposals are acceptable and the JS parliamentary group will support today's agenda target in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10789	Thank you, Mr. Unkovic. The word has the People's MP, Arpard Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10790	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my fellow Members of the Parliamentary Group have already spoken about following financial laws, and I would like to announce that the SVM parliamentary group will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development for the reasons of continuity and accountability. We will support the proposed amendment and complementarity as regards meeting international obligations and applying the requirements of the sectoral agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission on financial assistance mechanisms under the IPA Programme in the area of support for agriculture and rural development of IPARD 3, as we supported, for the same reason, the amendments and additions of the Agricultural and Rural Development Act when the IPARD 2 programme was introduced to farmers. The SVM parliamentary group will support the proposed amendment and the addition of the law because we agree on the essence and our almost three-decade pledges aim to create a long-term stable and predictable rural and rural development policy. Regardless of the difficulties in implementing IPARD 2 programmes and similar problems, farmers in all countries who used pre-accession funds faced honest difficulties. Four years after the launch and the first allocation, a shift is visible. The data by the end of October 2021 say the IPARD 2 funds totalled 771 projects worth 129m euros, totaling 458 projects worth close to 25m euros. We can always see the glass as half empty or half full. On the one hand, we have so far used about 30% of the possible 175m euros, and we have paid a little more than 10% of the funds, and insufficient use of the funds means the obligation to return the unused part. In particular, by the end of the year, the funds planned for this year and the 15m euros remaining from last year should be spent. It means that farmers are paid about 45m euros. The good news is that IPARD 2 funds can be withdrawn by the end of 2023, and EU funds use statistics say the dot is in the fifth or sixth year and we seem to be following that trend. In fact, the Ministry of Agriculture announced on 6 May this year that a total of 320 applications were granted in 2020, while, for example, only 20 applications were granted in 2018. The reasons for the approval of a small number of requests are numerous, partly due to large-scale documentation, lack of employees at the IPARD Agency and the Agency for Agricultural Payments, long approval procedures, but the biggest obstacle was to provide funds for the investment. The ownership had to provide 100% of the funds to obtain a retroactive return of 50/60% of the total value after approval. Therefore, the SVM Group welcomes the proposed changes to fund the investment from an approved advance of up to 50% of the total value. In particular, it is important that the advance payment will be granted not only for future requirements but also for those which have been submitted in the last two calls if no solutions have been issued. In addition to the advance payment of funds from the IPARD programme for the SVM parliamentary group, it is important that the objectives of the adoption of the bill are in line with our party's programme strategy. In the area of agriculture, we are committed to modernising, using new knowledge, innovation, in order to ensure the competitiveness of our farmers and to improve their position in the production and sales chain, in order to increase the use of sustainable development measures and the conservation of the environment and certainly not in the last place, in order to encourage the inclusion of as many young farmers and women farmers as possible. For us, it is important that this dimension of the IPARD programme, to encourage the inclusion of young farmers, for example young farmers and women in points and rankings, receive five additional points which can take a better position on the ranking list, and as a financial incentive they receive an additional five percent return. The importance of the digital agrolife platform through which agricultural land users in one place will receive all information to take agro technical measures can be assessed through the proposed changes and additions which connects the system of agriculture and rural development with all relevant databases and registers and thus achieves not only more effective protection of the interest of farmers but also more quality and rational functioning of the complete system. By introducing the e-agrar information system, 75% of the required data will be automatically downloaded from public records and registers, so it will take less than an hour to fill in instead of the five hours so far. Of course, we hope it will be so in practice. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians welcomes the fact that within the IPARD 3 programme for the period from 2021 to 2027, Serbia has singled out 288m euros for an additional measure compared to IPARD 2, a measure of 6 - investments in public infrastructure in rural areas. The users of measure 6 will be units of local self-government, i.e. inhabited areas of up to 10,000 inhabitants who will have the opportunity to recover 100% of eligible costs for various projects. Our parliamentary group has no dilemma that the experience of implementing IPARD 2 will benefit from more efficient use of IPARD 3 funds and long-term good preparation for the use of many significant funds from the European common agricultural policy funds. At the level of the European Union implementation, the local development strategy falls within the 10 most important measures in terms of budgetary releases from the total European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. All confirmed that the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy of Hungarians would support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10791	Thank you, Mr. Fremond. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10792	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Nedimovic and your associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members, we have today a large set of laws following the budget and today we are mainly discussing it I would say the same way, so I decided to say something about the Agriculture Act and something, but I will say very little about why, because I am getting ready to talk more widely in one place. The second thing I'm going to talk about is the national security and security system of the country at all. When it comes to agriculture, this law, which is before us today, has mostly treated IPARD and all forms of state aid in financing agricultural production, i.e. land, households, etc. I'd like to talk about agriculture, about something else, here today. Agriculture certainly is one of the branches that provides great opportunities, perhaps among the largest economic branches, and we do relatively little in that field. I remember before the end of 2013, it seems to me, we discussed, I don't know what occasion, right here about agriculture and co-financing, etc. I was saying something a little bit at the time, and then it was said that it would just come up, access to a farming strategy, or it wasn't done, or it wasn't done in a transparent enough way as soon as I said, I don't think I'm amongst the many informed, but some colleagues I've asked, they don't know whether there's a document or not. In fact, I think the first thing that needs to be done and that could make revolutionary changes in agriculture is the overall modernisation of agriculture. For example, we are still dominated by cereals today in agriculture. So, they dominate products with one year's harvest. We haven't done anything, and we're supposed to end up, parts of the territory that have the conditions to move and start production all year round, like vegetable plants, that brings fruit all year round. I'll remind you, probably one of you remembers, I think 40 years ago, and a few years ago, the French offered us 20-year concessions for the Sword, by paying every farmer of the land every year what value he gets by sowing that hectare with corn, wheat, cereals. We didn't accept it then. What's the matter? You probably all know if someone doesn't know how to say it. So, when it comes to the Sword, it's about first-class land, it's about the end, part, the whole of the Sword lies on warm water, the north side of the Sword is on water that reaches the heat of about 80 degrees. The third thing, between the great rivers of the day of God, drawn for watering and the possibility of turning, what the peasants say – into a masseuse, so one part of this country, which, across the year, would give birth and where we would have far and incomparably greater profits per hectare of five times higher. So I listed this as an example a little bit more detail, because I think it's clearer than me talking about what I'm talking about. Another thing that would have to revolutionize agriculture is to turn far more than ever, not only primary production in agriculture, but also secondary production, or processing, and then to place these products processed, and not in the original state from the field abroad, which is far cheaper. We have a partner in agriculture who's on the same thing. In fact, in the meantime, since 2013 when we discussed it, we have, next to the Ministry of Agriculture, we have the Ministry of Agriculture. The results for a short time of year, two days are remarkable in the sense that a very large number of young people from the cities have returned to the village, accepted that they are engaged in agriculture with help, of course, the state, counting on the IPARD programme, etc. There should be two ministries in full synergy and performing together. The results achieved as an innovation, what is the programme of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Milan Krkobic has just done, I think, three times as many rural cooperatives of different types have been established than was planned, which shows us that such further innovation in agriculture would attract a very large number of young people and the rural part of this country have been transformed exactly, to say directly, villages, by such a new performance. I think it would also help, a joint performance to help further develop, start development, co-operation in villages and rural parts of the country. So to conclude in the end, the IPARD as such, by law of this potent, cooperative and processing activity, that's three ways that would revolutionize the development of agriculture. In addition to this, I mentioned that I would mention the other thing and only to mention, in fact, it is Serbia's security system. Just two more sentences. We have a situation in the country. So the conditions and circumstances of the outside have changed, within the country. Some of the things that have been going on since 30 years ago and here, if you remember, I don't have time to talk now, have made it possible for the ino factor, primarily for foreign intelligence services, to rebuild the agent network, to strengthen it, structurally, to set it up more diverse. Our security services and intelligence services must respond to this both human and organisationally and structurally, have to modernize, reorganize, methodologically adapt, become more efficient, more zealous, respond faster and become more effective. All services, each for themselves, must strengthen their own work and at the same time strengthen synergy with all other services. Our counterintelligence affairs are lagging behind, counterintelligence protection within counterintelligence matters especially. It can't happen, because it never happened, that the president of the state announced in public that he was tapped, and that happened to us, as you know, when he was Mr. Toma Nikolic's president. So the MUP has to be set up differently. His role among the services must be quite different. The Security Service Coordination Bureau can't be this stealthy, invisible. It must be differently placed both organisationally and humanly. It must have a far stronger role in the security system. To conclude this, the current national security system holders, in the broadest sense, must be reconsidered. Some who count on the safety system carriers can't be, like the media, and I don't list any others. I don't have time for more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10793	Thank you. The word is Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10794	Thank you. Dear Ministers Nedimovic, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, respected colleagues and, above all, citizens and citizens of Serbia, my esteemed colleague Bora Kovacevic spoke of an important topic, which, unfortunately, I will not touch in my discussion, but my dear Dijana Radovic, from the position of someone who certainly knows everything about agriculture better than I do. But I want to talk as a responsible MP and, above all, a member of the SPS, about an important package of laws that is before us today. Tax laws, we could say that they are tracking the income, but to a good and cost-effective side of the Republic of Serbia's 2022 budget, which we brought yesterday. Today we are actually legally regulating the revenue side of this budget by changing a set of tax laws that should on the one hand provide optimal budget revenues, and on the other hand, to be stimulating for the economy and making it easier for the citizens, especially in these years of the pandemic, which, 100 times we have heard and I will repeat, has changed the face of overall economic activity and economic progress not only for us, but for the whole world. We even answered the highest quality of one such situation. There was a lot of talk yesterday. It was about the quality of the budget for 2022. I'm sure we haven't said all the advantages of the budget, that we haven't actually arrived. Yesterday we mostly talked about how budgets would be spent, i.e. the structure of the general government's costs. And today, we are going to commit ourselves to the laws that need to secure revenue in the budget. Also, the topic of today's search is the new Budgetary Inspection Act, which needs to ensure, above all, more effective control of the legal spending of budgets at all levels of the public government, which strengthens responsibility towards the taxpayers. When it comes to tax policy and tax systems, it is necessary to highlight their role in ensuring macroeconomic and budgetary stability, as well as their impact, above all, on economic and overall economic development. Tax policy is one of the most significant instruments in the country that can be effectively operated on both the country's economic and development strategies, and thus on faster economic and economic growth. Stimulative policy, the tax above all, creates a favourable economic environment for attracting investment, as each investor is stable and predictable tax policy is one of the main motives for making an investment decision. This applies particularly to foreign investors for whom we have been criticised in the past several times. Time has shown how many criticisms were without foundation and it is good that this policy has continued. The predictable and stimulating tax environment, and in particular the tax subsidies provided to economic operators, are an important factor in business and must exist, which is why the state needs to run a stable and predictable tax policy that always gives development benefits over a long period of time. Tax benefits both to citizens and to the water economy and to equate regional development and to reduce social differences. So tax policy is one visible social corridor and it needs to be so strategic and treated. Serbia is unequivocally paying serious attention to the reform of the tax system, which should now represent a stimulating environment, while at the same time providing sufficient revenue for the various budget costs, i.e. expenditure provided for by the Budget Law, which is financed by the functions of the state and its entities. In that sense, a package of tax laws is subject to this, or at least I view it as a further effort by the state to balance well both the revenue and expenditure side of the budget, but also to show concern for the economy and citizens, which is an absolute obligation. We also have before us amendments to the law on corporate tax, income tax, property tax, tax on use, holding and carrying goods, as well as amendments to the Law on contributions to compulsory social security. We also have before us amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System, as well as to the new law on budgetary inspection, which surrounds the planned tax policy for the next 2022, with a tax structure that is consistent with both the opportunities and the economy and the citizens. We believe that tax projections in the context of budget revenues are realistically planned, and that is all shown in yesterday's adopted budget. What should be pointed out is that, in addition to well-designed rates of taxation and tax incentives, fiscal discipline, one of the most influential factors of regular budget filling, that is, from the impact on budgetary security based on real income. Tax policy in this one, and it is expected that in the next 2022, it will contribute to a good level of investment in development, and above all I think of infrastructure projects and economic subsidies, which was also discussed in the draft budget. Also, fiscal discipline has made it possible to raise salaries and pensions this year, and not slightly planned for the next 2022. That is why I will first briefly comment on the amendment and supplementation of the Law on the Budgetary System, which, among other things, proposes an increase in wages in the public sector. The government appreciated the efforts of certain categories of employees over the past extremely difficult period and defined the increase in salaries for health workers, defences and social protection institutions by 8% and the other employees of the beneficiaries of the budget funds will increase by 7%, except the Social Insurance Fund. Otherwise, salaries and pensions together account for more than 40% of the general government expenditure. The law also improved the system of centralised accounts for the receipt of staff, elected and appointed persons by beneficiaries of the budget and beneficiaries of the mandatory social insurance organisations. When it comes to income tax, citizens should point out that the legal solutions offered are the fruit of the need to harmonize our tax policy with European standards, although it can be said that tax policies are not always easy to align, as simple tax policy is considered in one part and sovereignty of each country. This law offers several stimulating solutions and I think they were spoken of by colleagues before me. First of all, this is a fiscal redundancy based on the work of increasing the untaxable amount of earnings and stimulating employment by introducing new tax incentives for hiring certain categories of persons and extending the period of application of existing incentives. An increase in the non-taxable amount of earnings from 18,300 to 19,300 dinars per month was also proposed, which means that the basis for the tax on earnings is reduced, as well as the amount of tax on that basis. This is one way to ensure a lower fiscal burden of income generated by natural persons on the basis of work, as well as a reduction in the cost of employers. Many important decisions have been made through these tax laws, but interestingly, the public has been dealing with everything for the past two days just not with what we're talking about today, everything has been more important, and the law on expropriation, which is interpreted in different ways, or not to say it willingly, as it suits someone, and the law on the referendum, which also has different interpretations. It's not our first time, it's often that all the legal solutions that are being made here or proposed are being analysed from what angle you like, not to say that it's acceptable to use it for political purposes and as a good basis for political reckoning. But I won't waste my time on that, because I have to leave time for my colleagues. I must say that changes to the property tax law introduces a new way of taxing motor vehicles, which seems to me to be very detailed, by taxing motor vehicles at the age of the vehicle shown by the age coefficient, with the application of the progressive tax scale. It seems to me that this is a fairer tax model. I would also draw attention from this package to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which reduces the rate of contribution to pension and disability insurance, extends the period of application of existing incentives for the employment of certain categories of persons and introduces new incentives for the employment of certain categories of persons. The contribution rate for pension-inhabited insurance is reduced from 25.5% to 25%, with the employer now being disbursed by 0.5% of the contribution for PIO, which is paid to the employer's burden and will now pay 11% instead of 11.5%, which is a significant tax on the employer. The bill establishes an extremely progressive advantage or releases the payment of the PIO contribution for newly employed workers. Employer who creates a working relationship with newly employed persons in the period from 1. 1. In 2019, by 28 February 2020, a full, or 100% obligation to pay contributions to a mandatory PIO on the employee's burden and on the employer's burden to earn the new employee, paid at the end of 31 December 2024. The fact is that our tax authorities, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, are trying to disband employers primarily through tax policy reform in order to be motivated by new employment, which is one of the objectives of our country's economic development policy. That such a strategic definition is good also shows the results so far. The unemployment rate in the last eight months of 2021 was 48.3%, up 1.9 from the first quarter of this year. We'll admit that this is more than a good result, given the general crisis caused by the covid. Finally, and this was said by my esteemed colleague Radenkovic, analysing all the proposed tax proposals, we can conclude that, above all, the continuity of the stimulating fiscal policy has yielded good fiscal and development results. This is one of the reasons why the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10795	Thank you. The word now has the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10796	I thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Eagle. Here we are already discussing a set of tax laws, tax laws which are also related to the Budget Act adopted yesterday, tax laws that need to make certain tax exemptions, tax incentives, to continue the investment process in the Republic of Serbia, reduce the unemployment rate, raises the standard of living for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That has been discussed by my colleagues so far, but one of the points in today's debate is the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget. Here I would like to remind our citizens a little bit what it looked like in 2020, because that final account, or the 2020 budget, and the way the leadership of the Republic of Serbia in one crisis period resulted in a growth in GDP of over 7% in 2021, that the unemployment rate is never lower, that investments in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to, I think, at the end of October of the month were 3.3 billion and 200 million euros. These are the results that gave us the right to believe that we would be successful in 2022. This was the result of those measures implemented by the Government in 2020, which were severely attacked in every way possible. I'd like to remind the citizens that the former regime, led by Gilas and Solak, first attacked an entire system, a health system in emergency. I guess they were hoping that in this state of emergency and the pandemic that came to Serbia would be caused primarily by a health crisis that would result in a large number of people infected, hence a large number of deaths and that people, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia, would bring them to power. I can say it's morbid for any conviction, but there's something even more morbid and it's even more judgmental. When they saw that there was nothing of it and that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, had a sure plan that the pandemic caused by the coronary virus would get over as little effect as possible, then they began to tear down the system to artificially create it and come to power. I guess it's clear to everyone in Serbia how they treated the citizens while they were in power. I guess it's pretty clear to all of us how we'd behave if we came back to power by chance. Even those who were the most critical of the programme and the measures implemented by the Serbian government had to, in some reports, shyly admit that the measures were good. Shameful, though. A bit of the Fiscal Council is the attitude towards our public finances, according to our budget projections, according to our final accounts softened that attitude and brought it to the truth and facts, though criticising it to some extent that can be acceptable. When you look at the final report for 2020, the fiscal, negative fiscal score is 458 billion, 8.3% of GDP. That's a lot of money for Serbia. I would also like to remind the citizens of Serbia that, apart from going to the health care system, there have been various incentives for our economic system, which today has seen a growth of over 7%, and that there have been so many attacks on measures, such as paying out for every adult citizen who wanted to do so, of 100 euros. Now, look, okay, the fiscal council said it was supposed to make some social cards, so purchasing power, etc. I can accept that, but I cannot accept that this is what Dragan Djilas is talking about, I cannot accept that Solak is talking about, I cannot accept that Milojko Arsic, Junior Nikezic, etc. Because when I look at their results and their authorities, I come to the conclusion that they weren't Robin Hood. They were heroes of a cartoon comic book called "Alan Ford", in which one of these cartoon heroes kidnapped the poor to give to the rich. With the rich alone, so they took away from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to make them richer. They dared to attack how the government of the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic are allowed to give each adult citizen a hundred euros. When they took it for themselves, it didn't bother them. The reason is that they are afraid that the citizens of Serbia will accidentally not get the money, so it will not remain for them if by some miracle they come to power. This is their problem and therefore attack all these measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There's some more information I wouldn't agree with, just when it comes to fiscal advice. The recapitalisation was said to have been carried out, as Serbia's 12 billion dinars, that some unambiguous loan of five billion dinars was granted and that the Development Fund received 12 billion dinars. I would also like to finally see what Er Serbia has done so much that in a year where no one is flying, and nobody, when even the German Federal Government is preparing a package of assistance for its national carrier, we should probably shut down this Er Serbia because no company in Serbia should extend its life, that when conditions are created for it, we should make money. I would just like to remind the citizens of Serbia, and these fiscal council attackers, in 2012, Er Serbia had seven jet planes, "Boing 737", of which only three were in an annual state, the remaining four were cannibalized and Er Serbia was stored during Gilas's government either for privatisation or bankruptcy. I guess our Fiscal Council decides to be a little bit and balance its opinion, so it says in one of the following part that it is not indicated which state-owned enterprises and public agencies have paid the profits and dividends to the state almost 29 billion, and it is believed that it would be useful from the perspective of the budgetary process and its transparency to be found in the report, and then states that this is easy to implement because in the report on the revision of the final account carried out by the DRI, imagine, so who else than the DRI, it is possible to find out that during 2020 the dividend budget and the profits were paid by the Oil Industry of Serbia, Telekom Serbia, the Public Enterprise "Srbigas". Imagine if it was possible during Gilas's rule that these state-owned enterprises would pay dividends in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't remember that. I know while they performed NIS only before privatization that his loss was 80m euros per year. Just remember that they talked about Telekom being inefficient, how he couldn't survive on the market, how private companies would run him over and how he needed to privatise himself. that they bought it with that money they previously robbed from Serbian citizens, Solak specifically, so they wanted to sell Telekom for about 600, 700m euros, and today its market value is over four and a half billion euros. That's what it looks like when they led Serbia. "Srbijagas", at the committee session that preceded this session of the National Assembly, is somehow shy again, and in my view without any need, the President of the Fiscal Council attacked "Serbigas" in the sense that we have to take care of what will happen to the gas prices in the next period, that we should provide in the budget the funds to cover some potential losses of "Serbiagas" so that it does not happen to us as 2012, 2013, 2014, until 2017, that we pay out losses from the budget "Serbia". It's one thing that's true -- that at that age, we've paid for our losses. But there's one other thing, it's not said that the losses occurred, it's not said that the presidents of the former regime's municipalities took gas to work their heat, charged their citizens with compensation for thermal energy, and then shared their salaries, bought cars, and the Serbians didn't settle their obligations, so they probably expected that Aleksandar Vukic and SNS would order Serbia to stop delivering gas to local self-governments, where otherwise, and it wasn't then the SNS in power, so that citizens would probably freeze in their apartments, that there would be no heating in schools, there would be no heating in hospitals. Then you see what kind of people they are, what they are willing to do to their citizens, to come to power. Don't worry about Serbiaagas, Serbia's paying off profits in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Serbiagas is certain alone, to be satisfied with the results of talks that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic has tomorrow with Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin, and Serbia will again have, I am absolutely sure, the best price of gas in Europe. It will again be a problem with the former regime, because Serbia with Alexander Vucic must not be successful. How they think they beat SNS and Alexander Vukic, if we have a 7% growth, if we have inflation that can't reach the inflation they had in one year, if we're reducing the unemployment rate, if we're making roads, highways, if hospitals and schools are being made. Then they can't beat Alexander Wolfie. Well, let's get in the way, let's talk the truth, let's get the citizens to insinuate in some way, by some miracle, they'd love us in the election, but if they can get us into power without a choice. Here, now that I'm right, you can open any portal under the control of Dragan Gilas, and this bastard School, one of the news that will be the prices of energy, the price of motor fuel, and how much excises affect the price of motor fuels, or derivatives. Then they'll start talking about inflation, well, how very dangerous it is, well, how the state has to take care of it, well, how to take care of it. They're all right. I'm just asking a question about why they didn't do it while they were in power. He says this is how Nikezic, Jr., from 2012, up to today the price of the euro diesel has increased by 26 dinars. So nine full years from now, 26 dinars. It's something under three dinars a year. Let's look at how much the price of the euro diesel increased during their four-year government, over 100%. Over 100%. Did they do anything not to make that happen? They're nothing. Did they make tax breaks? No, they didn't, because they were stealing from that budget, nothing went back to the citizens, it didn't stand out for the roads, it didn't stand out for the economy, it didn't stand out for the hospitals, it didn't stand out for the schools, it didn't stand out for the schools, it didn't stand out, in the end, not even for the pensions. Even the public debt they made to raise their pensions, they ate the dinars, so we only had a high public debt, and the pensioners had no use for it. They had more money, they were able to buy less effectively, and now that society is going to talk about how we should worry about inflation. Just to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. inflation in 2008 was 10.9%, in 2009 10.1%, in 2010 8.6%, in 2011 11%. A simple arithmetic sum of percentage amounts, inflation rates are 40%, and essentially inflation was over 45%, for four years their authorities. It was the period when even those who wanted to support their government and their US Steel economy fled Serbia, no matter what. They sold Sartid for one dollar, only to stop working under the regime run by Gilas, Solak and then Serbian President Tadic. They sold the whole factory for one dollar. So much for that. And now Nikezic and others will talk about what inflation will be on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, how this can affect citizens' living standards. They care about the standard of living of citizens. Just to tell the citizens that 640,000 of our citizens have been out of work for four years. You can count on how many times a year it is. Calculate how many citizens it is a day and then they take care of the citizens. We can also talk about minimum earnings, foreign direct investments, average pensions, average net earnings. When they talk so much about oil derivatives and their price, let's talk about how many citizens bought fuel during their government and how much they bought it today. I guess that's what one part of their standard of living is for. I guess that's what the results are for. This way we try to make some false panic that nothing is right in Serbia, that nothing is worth it, that the mirage is that citizens today have more money than eight or nine years ago. It's certain they don't have as much as we'd like them to, but there's one thing we've got to do, if we're fighting, we're right, and we're hoping to reach that standard of living we're after. These when they were in power, except for taking our money and stealing our money, they took our years and stole our lives. We will make money, and lost years never and should never forgive them, and we should always remind the citizens of Serbia, especially these younger ones as thieves, hohstapplers, and that no more Serbians rule, Gilas, Solak, or Miskovic, or any other.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10797	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is Daniela Veljovic. The end of the parliamentary group's time is just over six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10798	Thank you. We have before us a set of important financial laws on the attempt to address in the time left to touch most of the laws that need to be shown in which direction the economy will go as the most important factor of a strong state. First draft law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act. This bill envisions an increase in employees' salaries among budget users, as well as users of compulsory social insurance organisations, except for the Social Insurance Fund, so that the salaries of these employees will now be increased by 7%. Also, the bill envisions an 8% salary increase for the defence ministry, healthcare workers, social protection institutions, health workers, criminal sanctions institutions and the Institute of Sports and Medicine. An increase in wages will begin with a December 2021 salary. This solution, which increases the salary of about 500,000 people in these two categories, is another confirmation that living standards are increasing year by year. Let us remember, a year earlier, in November 2019, profits in the public sector were also increased on average by eight to 15%. An increase in wages is a responsible economic measure, although wages grow faster than GDP, as this happens in terms of a reduction in public debt. When wage growth in the public sector supports GDP growth, such growth has a positive effect on wages and the private sector. Justified growth in the private sector can be expected to result in several months. This will contribute to increasing GDP and higher budget revenues. It is also not insignificant to another aspect of the increase in public sector wages, which is to prevent the departure of professional staff from the state service, especially in health care, which we have witnessed in the past period. This bill provides a legal basis for the Treasury Administration to make a centralised account of the remuneration of the employees of elected and appointed persons at the users of the budget of all levels of government, not just for the users of the republican budget as it has been so far. With regard to the centralised return account, a new information system is now being established to enable the calculation, creation, storage and exchange of data necessary for accounting records of payments, reporting, including suspensions of earnings, fees and other personal remuneration of employees. This system will fully introduce order into the system of earning from users of public funds, introduce better and more efficient control and reduce the cost of error options. We, from the SDPS, respecting current economic opportunities and opportunities, believe that each worker has the right to live a decent lifestyle, to live from his work, and we will certainly support this bill in the day of voting. As regards the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax, only one supplement has been proposed in Article 30 of this Act, which provides the obligor with the possibility that, under certain conditions, the capital gain achieved through the transfer of intellectual property rights, copyright, copyright related to the copyright, as well as the right to seek, in the capital of the resident legal entity does not include the basis of the corporate tax, with the provision of the conditions to be met so as not to lose the right to this tax benefit. It is proposed that this change applies to a tax period beginning in 2022. The main objective of the proposed measure is to increase the competitiveness of domestic economy. By applying the innovations of a company owned by domestic residents, they can achieve a more favourable position in the world economy. In order to combat the grey economy, increase investment, increase employment and economic growth, we also have a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the income tax of citizens, which will apply mainly since January 2022. First of all, an increase in the untaxable amount of earnings from 18,300 to 19,300 dinars is proposed. In this way, the burden of income, which is generated by employees, will be significantly lower and will reduce the costs that the employer will spend on tax. Given that the employment policy is an important issue of the economic policy of a society that has a tendency to grow and progress, any incentive for new employment of citizens is an important factor, both for employers and for society in general. Furthermore, the exemption from taxation of citizens' income tax can be specified, can be achieved for receiving students who perform learning through work. The important news is the introduction of a new relief for employers who create a relationship with a new employee, by now releasing the employer from the obligation to pay 70% of the tax charged and suspended from the earnings of a new employee for earnings paid at the end of December 31st 2024. Also, an exemption is being introduced from taxing the fees incurred by students performing learning through work, such as material and financial security. All these proposed solutions aim to continue the policy as much employment as possible in the past. According to the Director of the National Employment Service, there are currently 482,000 people on the National Service's record and this is the lowest number of unemployed in the past two decades. It is known that high total income taxes make labour less competitive compared to other developing countries. The solution should be sought in order to reduce the taxation of earnings when it comes to budgetary and social circumstances of the permit. I am pleased to find that this budget proposal has allowed it. Thus, this bill encourages young people to stay in their country to make a full contribution to prosperity and further progress through their work and engagement. When it comes to economic measures that the SDPS also advocates for economic development and progress, one of these measures is a flat tax schedule. In line with our definition, we believe that budget revenues must come from a tax that should be evenly distributed to taxpayers according to their strength. We have a whole new law before us, namely the draft law on budgetary inspection. Budgetary inspection plays a major role in the fight against corruption. Its importance is achieved through the establishment of legal work of all direct and indirect users of public finances, public and other enterprises in the majority public property, social insurance organisations and others. So far, we have had a small number of budget inspectors with inadequate school supplies that have been unable to fully meet the needs of a public resource user inspection. The bill now provides that the budgetary inspector can only be a person who has acquired a higher education from the scientific field, economic or legal science for at least four years. This condition will allow the tasks of budgetary inspections to be carried out by persons who have a narrow professional education necessary to carry out this specific inspection surveillance. An important law is also the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act. The fact is that Serbia is constantly working to comply with its rules with EU legislation. In the area of customs regulations, this has been done several times since the adoption of the new customs law in 2018. Given that the EU Customs Law has also suffered certain changes, it was also necessary to comply with these changes. In line with this bill, I would like to mention the "Open Balkans" initiative as very important and reminding that the SDPS led by Mr Rasim Ljajic has just been the initiator of the idea of "small Schengen" which has now been brought to life through this initiative "Open Balkans" where it is very important to talk about this regional integration that primarily corresponds to Serbia and small countries for a more sensitive growth of living standards. In fact, it is necessary for exports to GDP to be over 50%, and countries with 10 million inhabitants cannot achieve this on their own, but they can through this type of co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10799	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Daniel Jovanovic. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is just over five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10800	On 23 March this year, I asked three questions on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group on the subject of a car, i.e. vehicles for road traffic participants. The issues were addressed to the finance ministry, as well as to the Transport Safety Agency. I asked the first question regarding the application of the new Regulation on the division of motor vehicles and their technical correctness, which envisioned much stricter control of the emissions of harmful gases. The application referred to the postponement of the application of a new very strict regulation to relieve citizens of additional coups on the home budget in the middle of the world pandemic caused by the Kovid 19 virus. Dear colleagues, I am pleased to remind you that thanks to the government's expedition and openness to talk, we have reached an agreement during June of this year and delayed the application of the new regulation for at least two years. My second question to the Ministry of Finance was about what happened. the luxury tax to be calculated on the basis of the volume of the passenger vehicle engine and therefore the owners of such vehicles pay multiple amounts on the name of the tax when registering their vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia on amendments to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, which predicts that the prescribed amount of tax on the use of motor vehicles is reduced by motor vehicles over the age of five years and by an engine of over 2,000 cubic centimeters by 25% in motor vehicles over five and up to eight years old, 40% in motor vehicles over eight to ten years old, or 65% in motor vehicles over ten years old. The law is due to enter into force on 1 January 2022. The third question referred to historical vehicles, i.e. old timers. These vehicles do not have adequate status for the third year when it comes to vehicle testing. Also, the injustice of engine volume tax is even more pronounced in historic vehicles that are mostly with larger volume engines. With the current amendments to the law, we will resolve injustice in the registration of a vehicle between five and 20 years. However, by leading a positive experience in the first two questions, I am sure that in the near future we will be able to define the status of these historic vehicles, both in terms of tests and in terms of their registration, and thus prevent mass exports of the same, i.e. motivate owners to preserve old-timers in Serbia and to cultivate them as works of art as long as it is our own, but certainly world history. To conclude, MPs of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians will support this bill in the voting day, as well as other proposals on the agenda of the session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10801	I thank Mr. Giovanni. The word is Diana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10802	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we have important agenda points, and since I am a member of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I will certainly start with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development. At the very beginning, I would like to remind myself of what is very important for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is that yesterday we adopted a budget for 2022. The agriculture, forestry and water industry ministry will have 62 billion dinars available in 2022. This is a significant amount for all our farmers, and we all know that agriculture and rural development is in local, regional, as well as in national strategies recognised as a strategic priority, i.e. as one of the priorities of our country's strategic direction. That's exactly what this budget confirms, so most of the funds are actually directed towards this ministry for subsidies, more than 80% of the total. In addition to a good price, we also know that it is very important for all agricultural producers and the safe placement of agricultural products, but state subsidies and state incentives are something that significantly determines whether our farmers will continue to deal with agriculture, but also whether this agricultural production will increase or enter the sector of the processing industry, i.e. food production. The state, through investment in agriculture, through the allocation of more resources, encourages our farmer to invest more and to produce more. It is therefore important that we continue this incentive policy that we have towards agriculture, that we have the affirmative participation of our country in the agricultural portfolio, and that the appropriate measures we implement in our agrarian sector are important in order to encourage as many of our agricultural producers to enter the agricultural area as possible, simply to have more processing capacity. It is also particularly important that subsidies and reimbursements in agriculture are timely and timely. This is important above all, so that our agricultural producers can know how much they will invest, so they can know how much they will plan to do, but also to implement planned activities for the next year. We are just coming to the important aspect of this Agricultural and Rural Development Act, which is that these are changed and related to the faster payment of subsidies to agricultural producers, but that the demands for agricultural producers themselves are processed. This newspaper will allow for more efficient management of the register of agricultural holdings, faster data processing, but also more efficient management of the payments of incentives from agriculture and rural development. Through this electronic portal, our farmers will be able to access the data on their agricultural land at any time, which will make this system more transparent and more accessible at any time so that they can apply and know what their status is. Digitalising the register is a significant newspaper which will have a better system for processing the received requirements, which will connect the system with all relevant public records, but also automatic download of the necessary data, which will facilitate, as I said, processing requirements and for the ultimate outcome will have a more up-to-date register of agricultural land and faster payment of incentives. That's what's very important, and it's supposed to be these changes and additions. Of course, the whole digitisation in our public sector is being conducted and precisely because citizens would be more accessible data, so that citizens could be faster and more efficient and easier to exercise their rights, but above all, and to allow them to save and save time and money. When we get to this electronic portal, that's exactly what we're doing by getting rid of taxi charges, which is important for our agricultural producers, but we're also going to save money by not having our farmers interrupt their labour obligations, their work activities, but by using a computer or phone, they're going to be able to make any changes to their agricultural landline status. One of the important newspapers is that IPARD users will be able to afford an advance payment of 50% of the authorised value of the incentives, thus providing a significant part of the financial resources. We will allow these IPARD measures to be more affirmative, i.e. to be represented as much as possible, that our agricultural producers use them as much as possible, but that the less funds remain untapped. It is important to mention the LEADER IPARD measure envisaged for the implementation of rural development policy through the implementation of local rural development strategies by local action groups. The amendments and additions to the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government are another step towards our desire to make our public administration more modern and efficient and has a function to build a modern, efficient and professional public administration. We Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia absolutely agree that the establishment of an efficient and modern service system is the need of every local self-government and that these changes and additions are necessary and necessary in order to manage both human resources and public resources that are in fact the resources of our citizens. The public administration is closest to citizens, because through a wide range of all the services it provides to our citizens it creates the most direct communication with them. Our task is because of this, and if we are constantly promoting it, we are modernizing that citizens would actually experience it as their service. For the successful and efficient state administration that we seek is to invest in human resources, strengthen official systems through the specialization of existing personnel, enable their continuous education, constant learning, but also rejuvenate the structure of employees. Of course, it's particularly important to hire an IT expert here, because we need the information literacy of the officials. With that in mind, a modern civil servant must also be rewarded for his contribution to the reforms that we seek to implement, the proportionate complexity of his work, the productivity, but above all also for the more effective exercise of the rights and demands of our citizens. With the high level of digitisation that we have achieved in almost all the resolutions and reforms we have implemented so far, harmonising the public service system with human resources management, we will round up these multi-layer system reforms and thus the results that we will achieve will be quality civil servants, but also what is our goal to all, which is satisfied citizens. Of course, each unit of local self-government characterises certain specificities that meet that decision-makers in these local self-governments, as well as citizens and citizens living in them, and therefore there is no need to specifically explain why local self-governments are an extremely important segment of each country's functioning. Citizens of local self-government, the level of government closest to them, natural loved ones, expect local self-government to target all their capacities and all their resources towards their needs. First of all, we mean employment, we mean raising the living standard of the population, but also improving the overall quality of life. It is therefore important that all reforms and all development and the overall development that we encourage at the level of the whole country, we encourage it to meet the needs of the local level, of course, taking into account the differences that are present. One of the key aspects of the further development of our country is certainly the role of local self-government in the field of peace conservation and stability within each local self-government, but the importance of local self-government when it comes to co-operation between national communities, when it comes to improving multi-cultural and multi-ethnic co-existence of majority and minority nations. Given that I come from a multicultural environment in which both Serbs and Bosniaks live, I would especially stress the importance where it is necessary for us young representatives of the people, young MPs in this high home to have awareness of the importance of the peace and stability we advocate at a republican level, and it is particularly important that we all in local self-government have the awareness that only co-operation, peace and stability within our country and in the region can lead to economic prosperity, which we are witnessing today. The SPS parliamentary group will certainly support amendments and additions to these draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10803	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Goran Milic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10804	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course, that in the day of voting, I will support this set of laws, because every law we have voted in this assembly has been voted solely in the interest of Serbian citizens. In my presentation today, I would like to pay particular attention to the part of the development budget relating to the construction of the fast traffic station Somboor-Kikind, i.e. to be more precise, a road that will stretch from the border crossing with Hungary-Bačko Brega to the Nakov border crossing with Romania, a share of the road that is no less than 175km long, with a total amount of over 800m euros. This fast traffic station will have four lanes and will bypass all the settlements, which will bring the citizens of Sombora not only faster integration on the highway, connecting with Kickinda, and joining Banat and Backa, and not only easier and faster communication and increased traffic security, but much more than that. When I say a lot more, I mean that without a road trip, there is logically no excessive investment, and we have to stress that by building this Sombor car, it will finally experience the long-awaited rebirth, and I am confident that soon afterwards the first major investor will come to our city. Gentlemen, Sombor's been waiting for this for decades. Decades have passed, and no government has ever had hearing, understanding, or good will to realize how significant it really is this time, better say necessary, for all citizens living on a move where a fast traffic station will be built. These same previous authorities, in particular Gilasov, Tadic and Jeremic, and all of them, call democratic political structures, have made a budget exclusively for their own interests, and thus have taken everything from the citizens who have given them their trust from them, filling their own pockets exclusively, through their private businesses. Such a budget they called the development budget and such a budget served them only and only for their own rebirth. Exactly where we have this same Mr. Gilas, with acres of flats, with who knows how many hundreds of millions of euros, besides the 619 million that we know of, if we turned those hectares into miles, this time that we're talking about here today would be small. You're his same, when I say his, I mean this opportunity for Mr. Gilas and his associates, in Somboro, they've been in power for 18 years, and at that time the city budget was used to eat and drink at the expense of the citizens, so they used their signature to pay each other from the cappuccinos and the cigar boxes to the celebrations at which the porcelain vases were babbled, and there were cases of spending half a million dinars on one such party. So they took care of the citizens, gentlemen, and so they democratically thought about building this traffic station and new factories in a city where new jobs and investments were needed. If it wasn't for our President, Alexander Vukic, who, in his own word, committed himself to being built this time, from a fast traffic station to all our citizens, would have remained only a dream. On behalf of all the citizens of Somboro, before whom I am proud to address you today, as well as in the name of regional centres and cities of Banat and Backa, which this traffic station will connect, on behalf of all honest and hardworking people who will finally get the opportunity to connect and improve their business, so on behalf of all of us who firmly believe in Alexander Vukic's politics, today I thank President Aleksandr Vukic for everything he does both for Sombor and for the northern Serbian province of Vojvodina and for our beloved country of Serbia. Such a president is proud of all his citizens and serves his people honorably. With a man like this headed by Serbia, we can look clearly at our future. Long live President Alexander Vukic, lived Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10805	Thank you. The People's Messenger Radovan Aregina has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10806	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and People's MPs, respected ministers, respected representatives of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will look back a little on the Law on Budgetary Inspection. I think it's a good law that we're hopefully going to adopt, and we're certainly going to adopt it. Each responsible state is responsible for dealing with public funds transferred to the budgets of a certain level of government. The Republic of Serbia, in addition to its responsible plans for funding the general state, responsible access and control of the legal spending of the budget. In addition to the internal and external budget audit carried out by the State Auditing Institution, as well as all budgetary users, the application of laws and other regulations in the field of dedicated and legal use of public funds and material-financial operations shall carry out a budgetary inspection through inspection. The under-law in the area of planning, preparation, adoption and spending of budgets is the Budgetary System Act and establishes a budgetary inspection as a mechanism for the control of the legal spending of budgetary resources. Three levels have now been established, which are the Republic Budgetary Inspectorate and two lower levels of inspection services, circuit and local, or municipal, i.e. city. The power of inspection shall also be governed by the Inspective Control Act and by the General Administrative Procedure Act, which shall be subject to a significant extent to procedural matters which are relevant for the conduct of the tasks of the budgetary inspection, content, borders, powers, rights and obligations in the conduct of inspection in the tasks of the budgetary inspection. However, it was necessary to regulate the budgetary inspection by a new law, since it was obvious to make a more functional and efficient inspection system. The need stems from the obligation to bring this area into line with European standards, which is defined in the negotiating chapter 32 - financial supervision, which sets the obligation to centralise budgetary inspection and requires a clear distinction with internal audit. The Republic's budgetary inspection now covers the jurisdiction and budgetary inspection of units of local self-government through the adoption of this law and the autonomous province, while these inspections are responsible for controlling the users of the funds of the local, or regional budget. It is estimated that it is more meaningful and efficient for all budgetary inspectors to have the same level of authority, which contributes to strengthening the capacity of the budgetary inspection, increasing the capacity for more efficient work of the inspectors, should essentially achieve better and more responsible control of the legal spending of the budget. The current capacity of the budgetary inspection at all levels is not sufficient and is not adequately used because of the different competences and the small number of inspectors. Thus, at the level of municipalities and provinces in 2020, 82 budgetary inspectors work, while 17 budgetary inspectors have been employed at the republic level, which is certainly not enough to control all budgetary users. In this context, the centralisation of the budgetary inspection introduced by this law implies that the Ministry of Finance performs its inspection functions, and this law is defined to administratively take over all inspectors from local and regional level, finance and organise the work of the budgetary inspection, with a view to increasing the efficiency of work, modernising work and increasing mobility, i.e. the average number of controls carried out by the inspector. The final objective of the inspection supervision of the budgetary inspection is to establish the budgetary discipline of beneficiaries of public funds and the protection of the financial interests of the Republic of Serbia, in particular with regard to determining whether public funds are being used legally and intentionally. The centralisation of budgetary inspection through the acquisition of budgetary inspectors implies and the acquisition of all rights, obligations, objects, equipment, means of work and archives from the Autonomous province and units of local self-government, as done by this proposal, while the work of budgetary inspectors will be monitored through the unique e-Inspector information system, which in its work uses all the republican inspections and which digitises the work of inspection and enables effective reporting and monitoring of inspection flows. Centralisation of budgetary inspection in the function of raising the level of efficiency of the public administration by using digital technologies that facilitate the work and control of this work, which in this case will be done by the ministry. I think this is a good law, and that this way, the budgetary inspector will very much help the work of local self-government, especially the president of the municipality and the head of the municipal administration, I'm telling you as the former head of the municipal budget. I believe that this is a way that will be very helpful and that will allow certain obligations that local self-government has over, for example, municipal administrations, and it is very interesting that the municipal administration covers 80% of the funds available to the municipality's budget of any kind. So the mayor of the municipal administration, or director of the municipal administration, has 80% of the municipality's funds. Therefore, it is very good that the centralization of inspectors is happening, that it should be part of a republican level and that this reduces the influence of locals, not to say powerful or anyone, means all this doubt is being removed by this law. It is very interesting that the president of the municipality has direct and only legal provisions, does not use each maximum, 4% of the current reserve and 0.5% of the permanent reserve, which is also of the general income. This is a very significant shift. I would still depend on seeing in your composition the Prime Minister, who I followed several times on television, who explained excellently about these taxes, it was, in particular, about the Tax Act on the use of holding and carrying goods, the relationship that applies to all the citizens who drive cars, certain older years, and the big ones, there was usually one serious debate and you are in your own way in front of the ministry, but I want a few things, if I can suggest to you, which in the future simply by defining the budget and better filling up the budget of the Republic of Serbia to slowly enable some things, and through this, in particular, to further reduce these taxes which, we called real taxes on luxury, which simply can't be on the car for 15 years, which costs a few thousand euros, and the registration for it is 1,000 euros. I think that today's, that is, when we adopt this law, we've made a big move to meet the citizens who have this problem, and believe that there aren't few, because you know what, the law when someone's been passed has already had a car and a cube. I think the most realistic thing is that someone who buys a new car of 100,000 euros with any cubicity and one four, five years to which that car has that serious value and pays a serious tax. But later when people take these cars that are very high at 10 and 15 years old and ours, our Serbian people like to drive, love Audi A6, a million of these other things, to enable them, because we, for example, are here specifically in the proposal of this, puts now cars of 10 years of age, more than 10 years of age, with 40% of the reductions they had now have 65%. So we have 25%, but I suggest you because I come from Kladov, which is Timočka province and our people are very abroad, and especially in Vienna, and Vienna has to admit in Austria a very serious city, it has a serious tax policy, it has the right to have two cars on one plate. Why am I telling you this? Because one man can't pay at a given time with one plate on that expensive cube, and the other one uses another car, or a 25, 30 or ten jeep, doesn't matter, which he needs for hunting, for something else, for some other activity, but is registered to him, does a technical examination and uses it during the year because he sometimes needs a month or two days of driving in total over the year, and it satisfies that he pays certain fees and technical examinations. Secondly, we have now reduced, for example, specifically in this case from 40 we have reduced to 65%, but look at the difference. Take 2,000ccs in 1998, some car and 2050, this one has a fee of 11,500, and this one has 58,000. You've explained all of this, but you have to get into the core of the problem that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have. This is what I think we've started to solve this issue that will be constant as long as there are cars of our fit drivers who will handle it. You have one more item, everyone's talking about cars, but I want to give you one appeal and all of us, I'm going to tell us, and I know a lot of colleagues who ride motorcycles and try to find a way to get it into a quarterly register. I stopped driving my 500-cub scooter two months ago and now I'm not driving it, conditionally until April of the month, and so I'm asking you to try and find that way as well as that way in Western Europe. We're not looking for anything anymore, but by this law, we've begun to solve a certain problem. I want to welcome you on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who drive with great cubicity and of those who ride motorcycles, and to thank you for this proposal that we will vote for as representatives of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10807	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10808	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, in these two days we heard a very thorough debate on the 2022 budget and tax laws. A lot of arguments in favour of the stability of our public finances. I'll look back here on a few things. First, we could hear the data that at the end of this year our country's GDP will be around 52 billion euros, which is almost 20 billion more than in 2012, which is enough to say about how our economy is progressing, which is what if the forecasts come true, first of all I'm talking about international financial institutions, about our growth, we can expect somewhere in 2028 that our GDP will be over 100 billion euros. To this I would add another data concerning the next year's budget, as we could hear 1516 billion dinars, and if we return to the aforementioned 2012 budget for that year was 744 billion dinars. From this we can see that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is twice the budget of 2012 in absolute terms for the next year, in other words, there is twice as much money in the state register. Once again, if the forecasts of leading financial international institutions for our growth are realized, we can expect around 2026 to cross our budget by two thousand billion dinars and be three times larger than in 2012. All that I'm saying first of all is that our country will have a lot more money for both investment and social policy and for the most intelligent policy and for increasing wages and pensions and for everything that is important to the citizens of Serbia. The central theme, which I want to talk about today, is public debt, which is one of the very interesting topics and topics that are very public, and the topic about which there are very many manipulations. A few weeks ago, I watched a show on a tycoon television, regretting the time I lost and one of the guests was Dejan Šoškić, former governor of NBS from 2008 to 2012, so in the period when our economy failed the most and when we had the most disastrous results in our public finances. Of course, I'm not surprised by the lack of conscience and responsibility for what they've been doing, but I was a little surprised by their willingness to speak the truth so openly and to insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens. In fact, Dejan Soskic said that the public debt of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 amounted to around 43% or 44%, and that after that, with the change of government, it grew historically over 70%. However, with just a few clicks on the mobile phone, each Serbian citizen can come up with official data that the public debt of the Republic of Serbia was 61.5% of GDP in December 2012. So he lied about the entire 17% former governor of the National Bank, and I'm pretty sure he knows exactly what a public debt he was when he was governor but apparently had a very bad intention. I deliberately took the end of 2012, because it was a year which in financial terms, in terms of budget and economic policy created by the former government, but I was free to take the end of 2013, since our budget at that time was very burdened with high interest, high budget deficits and a new government in 2013 was simply forced to be in debt so that it could achieve liquid liquidity. In 2014, with the formation of a new government whose prime minister was Aleksandar Vucic, Serbia entered there, the already famous fiscal consolidation and heavy economic reforms that were then highly criticised by the opposition, in order to fall to about 49% in early 2019 by public debt of the Republic of Serbia. We have practically with that 49% of GDP public debt entered the Kovid crisis, and this is why we have had enough space to achieve great support for both citizens and businesses, support from over eight billion euros without which our economy certainly could not survive, and we could not have done all this if we had not previously implemented these economic reforms and had not reduced our public debt to below 50%, if we had remained over 70%, we would have probably gone over 100 or we could not have broadcast that aid to the economy and citizens at all, and the result would have been a disaster, what happened to us in 2008, 2009, 2010 when we lost over half a million jobs. This year's budget says that the public debt at the end of this year will be about 55% and that public debt is not only smaller than in 2012, it represents a far smaller burden on the budget, because the average interest on debt is far less, not to say that in the course of the Covid of the crisis we have issued Eurobonds of 3.12% and that in 2009, we were in debt at an interest rate of 7.25%. If it continues with this trend of our economic growth, we can again expect that somewhere in late 2024 in the early 2025 our public debt will again be below 50% and that is of course very important, because we never know when a new crisis can follow which we cannot affect, we cannot prevent it, but we must be prepared to react to it. Another way to manipulate public debt by the opposition and their tycoon media is to observe public debt on an absolute amount, which is simply something that is not seen in the world. Most complex to explain, say, if I owe someone 1,000 euros and Dragan Gilas owes someone 1,000 euros, we have the same debt, so that's the same amount, however, 1,000 euros is much higher than for tycoon Dragan Gilas and in practice my debt is much greater than his. For this reason, public debt is exclusively seen through its share of GDP. And to see once again how much we don't have any problems here, it should be said that Croatia has a public debt of between 85-90%, that Slovenia has a public debt below 90%, Montenegro 105%, Albania over 85%. Many European Union countries such as Spain, Italy, Portugal, of 120, 130, and even over 150%, not to mention Greece now, which is over 200. So it is quite clear that in this sense our fiscal policy and monetary policy is very good and that we have no problems with public debt as much as anyone is trying to explain that it is not so and to present it to the citizens in another light. There were also a lot of words about capital investments in these two days, and quite fundamentally I would like to talk first and foremost about another dimension that these capital investments have, therefore, not only on GDP growth, to some immediate benefit in terms of creating new jobs in the consumption of building materials, the involvement of an entire set of professions in and the process from designing itself to the ultimate implementation of these large capital investments. There is another dimension, because all these buildings like highways, clinical centres, Belgrade subways, schools, hospitals, these are buildings that the citizens of Serbia will benefit for both 10 and 20, and 30, for 50, and 100 years. It best speaks of the character of this government and the fact that we don't run politics thinking about what our country is going to look like in six months or in a year, but what it's going to look like in 10, 20, 30 or 50 years. For example, the town of Cachak will become a highway crossing in a few years, so I am convinced that the benefits will be much greater in the future generations than we are today. This is what I'm gonna end up with. If you remember years ago, there was an Internet photo of the Infectious Clinic in Belgrade that was really creepy. It's this photograph of the images and the opportunity of the former government and what they left behind. This photograph and clinical centres that were intact and Corridor 10 that hadn't been completed, it's all their picture and opportunity. A picture of the Infectious Clinic that we will see in a few months completely new and completely renovated, as well as a picture of clinical centres, highways, that is, a picture of this government and what we are doing today and what will remain behind us. I think it best illustrates how different the state of Serbia is today than in 2012, how much changed it is, how advanced it is, and how much more, first of all, I am convinced it has a far better perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10809	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Adriana Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10810	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected ministers, government representatives, co-workers and fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, under the provisions of the roof law of the Law on the Budgetary System, a draft law on the 2020 Final Account was also found on the agenda. Before the proposal set of laws, members and deputies of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending had the opportunity to learn about the extremely envious results achieved thanks to economic reforms, but also the synergy in the work of the President of the State, the Government, the National Bank of Serbia and the MPs for which we received the recognition of all international financial organisations. Since my dear colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, is the chairman of the committee responsible, thanks to which the Committee is extremely functioning, presented a series of facts on the results and proposals of the Ministry of Finance, I will only say that the set of laws amending and supplementing the draft laws on the agenda today represent a positive affirmation for the further progress of society. When it comes to the draft law on the Republic of Serbia's 2020 final budget, I will update the fact that the value added tax reached in the country was as much as 29% higher than in 2019. Speaking of incomes, which our economists are most interested in, I must suggest that the biggest increase in revenues when compared to the year before was achieved thanks to the public sector of 25.2 billion dinars, as much as 43% more than in 2019, while the profit of the state agency brought 3.4 billion dinars to the budget, which is 37.7% more than in 2019. The sales revenue of Zijdin in 2020 reached a level of 700m dollars, which is 34.4% more than in 2019. In addition to Smederjev's Ironworks, one of the main contributors in the Republika Srpska budget is Zijdin, which has entered a major expansion and has significantly compensated the mining industry of the Republic of Serbia during the crisis. Since I was born, founded family and live in Boro, I am responsible for saying that, thanks to the reliable policy of Alexander Vukic, his politics and political but also his private relations with the president of the People's Republic of China Si Gjiping, in the city of Boru was never a higher standard of living, greater and safer profits and a strong contribution to the growth rate of the economy. All investments made during RTB "Bor", the construction of apartments, circular flows, opened an amphitheater with 5,000 viewers who rarely had a city like Nis, a huge sports centre, would lose the sense that the president with his power, ability and authority did not call upon a large Chinese company and had the strength to ask the Director General "Zijn" in Rudno Glava - when will you give the workers an average salary of 100,000 dinars? The process is being achieved today, with daily, continuous, new employment, with the fact that the performance of the business directly and indirectly, through the company's co-operatives, depends on the existence of between 50,000 and 100,000 people. The crown of all these events is a collective contract signed between employees, i.e. Union and then leadership, a representative of the NR China, who, thanks to President Vukic, remained in force at Zijing. That at the time of the major economic crisis caused by the Kovid-19 pandemic and the world's most powerful countries, the closure of factories, the closure of jobs, the care of their citizens, besides multiple aids, and in order to keep their jobs, was also shown on the bulky side of the final account, where the employment expenditure reached 326,7 billion dinars, which means that 18.6% of all costs went to the employees. It is precisely because the budget of the Republic of Serbia is based on two basic pillars, when it comes to the growth of the standard of living of Serbian citizens, that I must also praise the excellent co-operation of the National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, which is seen in a stable course of dinar towards the euro, stable public finances and the state cash register that is liquid, as well as the excellent coordination of fiscal monetary policy with the National Bank of Serbia. In order for our citizens to feel the effects of the global economic crisis in the future, the president's proposal will pay greater attention to the value mechanism, but also to the excise policy. The second pillar of the Republic of Serbia's budget is certainly capital investment. Serbia attracted $3.44 billion of foreign direct investment in 2020, which is more than half of the total foreign direct investment in Southeast Europe, which means that Serbia is third among economies in transition by inflow of foreign direct investment. In front of her are only Russia and Kazakhstan. Because of our citizens, I'll take the next one. Of the countries in the region, foreign direct investment in Croatia in 2020 is $1.3 billion, in Albania 1.1 billion, in Montenegro only $529 million. All these facts speak for which Alexander Vukic is the best president and from where all this envy, the increasing pressure and hatred of certain politicians from the region, but also the anti-patriot in the image and work of Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and their marines. Thanks to the excellent geopolitical positioning of the Republic of Serbia, huge potentials when it comes to investment, natural but also anthropogenic tourist values, the IT sector, which is growing stronger and a number of comparative advantages our Serbia has, I am sure that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will unite in the upcoming elections and provide full support to President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10811	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10812	Thank you. The budget for 2021, with all the following laws, is promising and, of course, has to deal with all the problems that follow next year, especially at the world and global level, because we know that energy prices are rising and we don't know exactly how much they're going to grow next year. What's most important to us is that our president's departure to President Putin goes well, that this country gets favourable gas prices, and that will be the best news for our citizens and our economy. The budget is largely financed by the travel network. Of course, a good travel network is a condition for the development of a good country. We're now running major traffic stations, highways as major traffic stations, and other road levels. The time has come for us to also have access to traffic to work or reconstruct the existing, so that these main roads will have one full contribution to the development of this country, of course, and for the transit that is happening through our country. That's why I'm mentioning it again, I've mentioned it before, and I think there's this goodwill, that my municipality of Kocelev is 22 km from the highway of Milos the Great. There's a traffic station that needs to be reconstructed, put in order, and then we're close to that traffic station if the access traffic is good. Of course, Koceljeva will have a good way, already existing towards the highway that goes to Šapac and fast traffic to Valjev, or to Iverko. With those three cars, that space that my community has, it's going to be well-connected to good traffic. When we have such a traffic station, it is also possible to count on the further good development of that municipality. I think water supply is now, and especially in some future time it will be the most significant infrastructure for spaces that already do not have or haven't solved to the end or are in a big problem. This should focus on large accumulations, such as the accumulation "Stuborovni", which seems to me to be the volume of 155 cc's of water and processing and water should be fed to the entire Kolubar district, without Osecina, with Lazarevec and Koceljev. It's in the advanced phase of making documentation. I hope that next year it will be over and that maybe the public procurement will come. If all of this is so, a large space, significant for Serbia, will be allowed to have safe and stable water supply. I hope that this country, of course, along with us, with local self-government, will bring this job right and that both citizens and businesses in those areas will have sound, healthy drinking water. What is being added to all of this, are also river regulation and river streams, especially in these conditions of unforeseen climate change, we have a lot of rainfall in a short time and all the rivers that are slower have problems when the great rainfalls are to solve this great flow of water. The Tamnava River is a slow river, and it has fast tributaries. When they're heavy rainfall, then we're at great risk and a big problem. The first floods that occur in this Serbia are on our territory, my municipalities. There's been a lot of work and work done on regulation and the dark one itself and the tributary, and that gives its results. Of course there's still work to be done. It's scheduled for next year. The Water Directorate, "Serbian" have a serious approach. Now that these were the last major rainfalls, we had a visit from the director of "Serbia", Goran Puzovic. There's one seriousness that can be seen from their work and business. I hope that in the next year, what we talked about, that it will turn into a realisation and that the Tamnava River will be most endangered. We can't expect when the catastrophic rainfall is that we regulate it all, but we can solve high water, medium water, and even small water. Usually my locals say – as soon as it gets dressed, Tamnava pours out. It hasn't started to rain yet, the Dark One's pouring out. So it's pouring out fast. What interests the citizens of that area, especially interest, and I'm glad that there's a Minister of Agriculture, we've talked before, that's where we're threatened in anti-urban protection. Of course, the state and this ministry have done their part of the job. They automated anti-urban protection, and it works much better than the previous one. However, we have this problem that we can hardly solve, which is that the Mačvani County, which is entirely relying on the Drina simply on the other side of the Drina, does not have serious anti-building protection and then city clouds come to an extent that and when it attacks with anti-urban protection is not quite possible to solve. What is expected is that, at least through funding the agricultural production insurance policy, it will be from 40% to 70%. We've also talked to the Ministry, there's good faith in the Ministry, the Agriculture Committee. The people there are expecting it and I hope that we will realize it in the next year, that the Mačvani District will enter that part of the privileged financing, of course for the legitimate reasons of the risk of anti-urban protection, because it is very difficult to defend that area from the city. What I'm saying is, what's been going on today is the 10.00-hour news that our President, Alexander Vukic, announced. It's funding sports, and it's serious funding that hasn't been done so far. For a long time I've worked in politics, I've been in sports for a long time, and I don't think this kind of mass funding has ever been offered from the state level. Of course, you can see when the teams have achieved good results, individuals at the Olympic Games, World Cups, European Championships, Regional Championships, but to finance a good or most of the sports in the first and second leagues of competitive sports is serious, good and something to support. You know, you can't go wrong in sports. No one's ever come out of sports bad, out of serious sports. Yeah, we have quality people, plus that health care part that's absolutely there. You know, in sports, you learn something that's hard to learn, which is that you're worthy of defeat when it happens, and in life it happens very often defeats. What I expect, of course, when the state works well, when it has good income, of course there will be enlargements for other levels of sport, those initial levels. There are school sports, youth sports, amateur sports. The largest number of our most famous athletes have just emerged from such environments, smaller environments. That's why I think investing in sports halls, in indoor swimming pools, in athletic trails, in playgrounds, there may not be a direct financing of clubs, but should give or allow conditions for this youth, that this school youth, youth, amateurs, etc. They're just dealing with sports, that good coaches make good champions, and then they're going to keep bringing it back to this country through good results at the state level, regional level, European and global level, as we already have, we have our own athletes. And the most beautiful news I've chosen for the end, and that's funding newborns, or firstborns, and it's going to be for a second-born and third-born child, and that's something that could have been the most beautiful thing that could've happened, and that's what I want to end today's discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10813	Thank you. The word has Sanja Lakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10814	Dear citizens, respected ministers, I congratulate the Government of the Republic of Serbia on its efforts to make this country a working and building country. We all had to pass through our sieves of grain to come to this moment today, but we still have to pull hot chestnuts out of the fire because of those who can't accept the fact that they can't forever be nailed to the state chair because of those who can't accept the fact that it's not politics, the policy of firing eggs and those who can't accept the fact that it's not a valid policy, the policy of screaming at everything that's Serbian, and that they've never allowed themselves to remind themselves of the nonsense that reminds the "Jasenovska Flower" that they've never mentioned in their roars a "Glasm," that they never mentioned the tragedy of the Serbian people in the largest ethnic cleansing after World War II in "The Storm" that they've never mentioned Serbian casualties in our pogroms, that they never mentioned the loss of Serbian civilians during the time of Serbia's space in the Republic. They say it's possible for all people to lie for a while, that some people can lie all the time, but that it's impossible for all people to lie all the time. So their policy, the policy of the past, is their policy of destruction, and I'm glad that the more we do in this National Assembly today, the more we don't adopt laws that have been passed from the stake and the rope, and we're not going to adopt bill proposals with a billion and a hole, but today we're discussing bill proposals thanks to which we have incentives for employment, we have incentives for employers. We will provide conditions for the implementation of a comprehensive reform of the business environment and continue the fight against the gray economy. By reading the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, we see that we have been responsible for fiscal policy, combined with macroeconomic performances in the past period, ensuring the relaxation of wage and pension policy and significantly increasing capital investments as essential components and industries and construction, transport and infrastructure itself. It is therefore important again to point out that today's policy led by the Republic of Serbia is not a policy of destruction, but a policy of construction. That's why I have to remind myself of the 2022 Budget Law, which defined the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure as significant funds, defined 255.57 billion dinars. This is a budget that is 40% higher than that initial budget for 2021, which is a budget that even 80% and 210 billion dinars, respectively, have focused precisely on investments in infrastructure projects. In addition to building 1,300km of highways, in addition to building a fast traffic station, in addition to construction of local, municipal networks, we invest in high-speed railways and join the Serbian capital with all other European capitals. They don't say for free that the picture is worth more than a thousand words. That's why today I wanted to remind, on the case of a relatively small Belgrade village called Batajnica in the municipality of Zemun, what it looks like to be at the head of a country home government like this. So Batajnica was a settlement which, according to the people, was the last hole in the playing, and today only as far as health care was concerned was built the first Kovid hospital with accommodation for 1,000 people and with the most modern equipment. We didn't stop here. In Ugrinovci, a completely new health clinic was also built, a central clinic was reconstructed in the centre of Batajnica, and it was also adapted for the first time in the same center of Batajnica. What especially meant to the people and to the Krajina who live in the largest refugee settlement in the city of Belgrade, so-called. Busije, is built from the foundation of a new elementary school with the most modern equipment, and the adaptation of other primary schools, located in the center of Batajnica, continues. We are also connected with an important loop on the newest road, on the highway, and as President Vukic said, that means for Batajnica and the inhabitants of this country's settlement life because it will reveal the door for many other investments. Also, we continue to work on local roads, and all those living in Shanghai in Batajnica know what it means to build a fast track to Belgrade-Novi Sad and know that this construction, like all this, has completely changed the face of this Belgrade settlement. As I said at the beginning, it's impossible, it's really impossible to lie to people all the time, so the government that held this country on some rickety state's feet long ago passed a time to remind of some spilled egg and some liter of paint on Belgrade's murals. They really remind me of something I can't call a voice of reason and remind me of Nusic's representative of power, of Nusic's "People's MP" who really knows and speaks and that only someone is silent, and in this case some boss should tell him when to speak and when to shut up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10815	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10816	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Nedimovic, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like first of all today to repeat this great news that we could hear from President Vukic this morning, which is an increase of one-time assistance for a first-born child from 100 to 300,000 dinars and certainly announce the realization of a strong strategy to strengthen the birthright of our people and we could hear that in 10 to 15 days we will hear the rest of these measures. We'll be able to really see what it's going to look like and that's what our biggest problem is, and as the president said, that average year for a first-born child where mothers are 30 years old to bring it down and the other measures that will follow. I would now like to refer to the results of the Serbian government from this and the previous two years. Just information that GDP will be higher by the end of this year by 20 billion euros compared to 2012 says that Serbia today is a country that is significantly stronger, as well as the fact that the average profit at the end of this year will be over 600 euros and that we will practically outrun one of the EU countries shows the results that we, or the results of the government of the Republic of Serbia, come into a higher league. We are measuring with all other EU countries. Foreign direct investment for the first 10 months amounts to three billion euros in 140m euros and data that as many as 60,000 new jobs in this year, the year of crisis and pandemics while the whole world is struggling with unemployment, which suggests that not only works well but every year is growing stronger and stronger results. Eight billion euros in support of citizens and businesses in the pandemic era is something few countries can prove to be data. For next year, these three main pillars are the budget. This is a continuation of the accelerated growth of the economy, the continuation of infrastructure projects and the improvement of living standards. The increase in minimum earnings from January 1st by 9.4% and the crossing of 35 thousand dinars, or 300 euros, just says how much all lies, etc., fall into the water. The opposition. Seven to 7% is a public sector salary increase from January 1st, and on average 7.4% while for pensioners, the increase will be 5.5% plus one-time payments of 20 euros plus 20,000 dinars for our pensioners. As of February 2022, the total single aid to pensioners will be 500 euros. All these increases also apply to all of our citizens living in the KIM area. It doesn't stop and it was never the plan to stop helping our citizens at KIM. It is important to note in the context of a one-time assistance received by everyone resident in KIM territory, including children of 100 euros and 200 euros for the unemployed, so the average family in KIM received 600-euro assistance from the state of Serbia. Capital investment, which is very important, which allows us to continue growth in the economy will be 485.8 billion dinars or even 7.3% of GDP. For our health care, 442 billion dinars will be allocated in 2022, which is 153 billion dinars more than in 2019 as before the crisis. So, four billion euros in health leave next year, which is enough to say how much the state of Serbia and the government cares about citizens' health. To protect the environment, what is most attacked by those who are trying to twist lies and to degrade everything that the state of Serbia is doing, the separation for the environment will be 3.3 times higher than this year, and this is a sign that Serbia is changing very quickly in this direction as well. When it comes to investing in culture, an increase of 16% clearly says that this branch in our lives is also very important. Agriculture as one of the most important segments and the greatest potential of the Republic of Serbia is the separation and additional increase of 10 billion dinars for next year, and I think it is very important in the context of the current energy crisis showing what it means to have certain sectors in the country strengthened, so thanks to gas reserves and investment in the energy sector, our citizens did not feel this crisis. I also think that this additional investment, i.e. increasing investments in agriculture, will allow us to create stronger agricultural holdings, i.e. to be safer in the event of an emerging crisis that can be seen in the announcement of a possible food crisis. The planned 2022 deficit is 3% of GDP. This is really a huge result, and at the end of this year it's going to be 4.3%. Public debt is planned to decrease from the current slightly more than 58% of GDP to 55%. I would like to point out how much the state of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done, and primarily thanks to the strong understanding of our President, Alexander Vukic, and how much she has done and spelled in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. When it comes to investment in infrastructure, let's just take the previous few days, or over a period. A new bridge opened yesterday in Kosovo Mitrovica and was released in traffic on the Day of Liberation of Kosovo Mitrovica in World War II. Also, reconstruction of the Clinical Hospital Centre in Kosovo Mitrovica has begun, and this means a lot to our citizens, as all our citizens across Kosovo and Metohija are now coming to the therapeutic treatment in Kosovo Mitrovica. Of course, the plan is soon to begin the construction of a new facility, the Clinical Hospital Centre of Pristina, located in Gracanica. A few months ago, a cornerstone was laid for a university building of about nine and a half thousand squares, containing three colleges and a cabinet building. Whoever was in Kosovo Mitrovica knows exactly what the magnificent part of which is located in five dormitories and a student centre looks like. With the construction of this building, a campus where it lives and learns almost 10,000 students will practically be surrounded, and it will really look world-class. So without investment and assistance from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this would certainly not be possible. I always like to highlight the return settlement "Suncan Valley" with several hundred residential units that really look phenomenal and are soon expected to end the construction of this village. However, what creates the most problems for us in Kosovo and Metohija is the failure to comply with the Brussels Agreement by Pristina institutions, or authorities. Constantly refusing to establish a Community of Serb municipalities in accordance with the signed agreements, and we always like to point out, therefore signed agreements, it is important to say this because the most important agreement is that in addition to the first Brussels and the legal framework agreements, i.e. the principles for establishing a Community of Serb municipalities that defines the clear competences of the community and was signed in August 2015. It is important for us to establish, because there is no other way to achieve the collective rights of Serbs in KIM, but also the rest of the non-Albanian population. I always like to say that there are also our brothers Bosniaks and mountaineers who certainly share the same fate with us. What worries us a lot and has caused us great discomfort are the large Albanian statements by Albin Kurti, who even pointed out with his last statement that this was his personal attitude. The personal attitude of someone who is the highest authority in the territory of our southern province. The worst part is, there's no conviction, no comment from anyone in the international community. Anyone. If our President Alexander Vukic had said so on the subject, we would have had a dozen attacks, accusations, crucified that we are the worst. That's what, those double arches of us at Kim hurt a lot. It hurts when one part of the opposition, led by Dragan Gilas, calls us all criminals. According to Dragan Gilas, I'm the first criminal because I live on KIM. They kept quiet when almost our people were shot and attacked by Pristina troops. That's what separates some previous government that in the package is made up of the former DS. I love and want to say, and I always repeat in every place as many as they did to the Serb people in KIM and when they hid in the pogrom in 2004, so they were abroad and when they asked the stupidest possible question to the International Court of Justice, Mr. Vuk Jeremic whom we expect to raise a monument in Pristina one day, but certainly also Dragan Gilas, who has never condemned the attack on Serbs, has never done anything good for us, nor wants us, nor thinks well. That's what I have to say, because that same part of the opposition is now going to the campaign fiaker led by Marinika Tepic with vehicles of several hundred horsepower. They are concerned by the most Serbian unity on the KIM, which is decorated in the Serbian List and this unbreakable link with the state of Serbia, with our President, Aleksandr Vukic, and President Vukic, has the most support from us with KIM, almost 100% support. If it hadn't been for Alexander Vukic and his strategic thinking when it came to our survival and staying on KIM, we certainly wouldn't have been down there today. We will never forget how difficult it was when they were in power, when Serbia was financially on its knees, there was no army, and believe me, in the last difficult events we had a lot of heart when we knew that there was an army of Serbia that was stronger than ever, that didn't even exist in their time. It also rejoices today when we heard the news, when President Aleksandar Vukic announced additional investment in Serbia's army and something that we will all be able to look forward to soon when we hear it. I want to say that this government of the Republic of Serbia has incredible results and what is done day by day, every year surely guarantees that in 2025 Serbia will reach the promised level of 900 euros of average earnings and that we will certainly all live better, and for us, KIM it means a lot, because while the strong states of Serbia will be strong our people at KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10817	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint, principle and single search, I ask if the presidents, or authorised representatives, want the word? The word is Milija Miletic, the remaining time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10818	Thank you. Dear Doctor Orlic, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, I would say for the last three minutes that only once again that the SPP-USS parliamentary club will support all these bill proposals because these are the laws that allow our country Serbia to go faster and stronger ways, where it will change, to improve in every part of our country of Serbia. Today we also heard our Serbian President, Alexander Vukic, talking about investing in firstborn children, in new investments, in sports. I'll say a few things about investing in sports, because I'm like a man living in the territory of a small community that has over 3,000 young people up to 30 years old. It's very important for us to end up with us and finally build a sports hall where these young people could play sports. I was just saying that Serbia's young football team selector is from Svrljig, Dejan Brankovic. I think we need to do this, because the state of Serbia is investing in sports and I am sure that in the course of 2022, we will solve this in Srlig and other parts of Serbia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-24-0.u10819	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 2 to 15 of the agenda. In accordance with Article 90(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 101(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Rules of Procedure, I interrupt this session for holding the eighth session of the Second Regular Session, which is scheduled for tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. In accordance with Article 101(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the 7th session of the Second Regular Session will continue on Friday, November 26th, at 10:00 p.m. So we'll continue tomorrow. Bon appétit. [[The session was suspended at 6:00 p.m.]]
