ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 107 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when adopting the minutes and setting out the agenda, exists if more than a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that, at this time, 150 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5138	I thank you, Mr. President. I will ask a few questions that are important to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whether they live in rural or urban areas, whether they live in southeastern Serbia, in Raska or Vojvodina, all this is a problem. First of all, great interest, and I'm asking this precisely because a large number of my neighbors and fellow citizens are asking, all witnesses that last year and this year, we have a big problem with the pandemic and a great deal of attention is being placed on products that are important to people's lives, and I specifically think about food. My question is directed towards the Ministry of Trade, and it concerns a specific product of oil or Zeytin, because all these life products that are the most important, sugar, salt, flour, milk, the price has not changed in a large part, perhaps a few percent, compared to 2019 to 2021, while the price of rabbit is almost doubled. I'm interested in why that's the case and whether there's any way to affect it, to be less priced, more normal, because Zayt's is a very important product for all of us? The great need for us living in Srlig and the surrounding places is to use fat, but someone doesn't use it, and the price of rabbit is very high, it moves up to 180 dinars, and in 2019 it was the price between 90 and 100 dinars. I think it's an overpriced price. The price of sunflowers was slightly higher, but it was likely that the largest amount of sunflower was exported. I think we should pay more attention to that, because it's very important for all citizens. I know that the price of our agricultural products is a very small, buying-in price of milk, cheese and everything else, because the peasant always carries the most difficult burden because of the whole society, but I think the price of the rabbit is high and we have to work on it, to put a price that is normal, a similar situation in our midst. That's the first question. The second question was addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture. A large number of our fellow citizens living in hill-mounted areas, living in municipalities in the territory of the Nisav district, the Toplic district, in the territory of southeastern Serbia and in other parts of Serbia, in Raskoj, is a similar situation everywhere, is that the determination of areas with difficult living conditions is determined by a regulation up to 500 metres above sea level is an area with difficult conditions of life, and below 500 is easier, better and for these areas no larger funding is obtained, as is obtained for areas that have more than 500 metres above sea level. I suggested that this rule be changed, that it be ranked differently, that municipalities that are undeveloped, mountain-mounted areas, municipalities that are devastated, in these municipalities should be all areas with difficult living conditions, because it is not the same village from which I am, that this village has more favourable conditions, or more unfavourable conditions, and the village next to me, in the same municipality, has more favourable conditions. I think we have to work on that, and it would be good if that rule were changed and it was different, that it was ranked in a way that all areas on the territory of the municipality, which is the fourth or fifth group of underdevelopment, mountain-mounted, demographically threatened, how many children were born, that it determined which areas with the difficult conditions of life and that there were larger resources. Another question to the Ministry of Agriculture is, I'm going to say this commendably, because a regulation and regulation has been passed, specifically, regarding the assistance in the purchase of machinery, the participation of 50%. Out of the whole price, 50% returns the Ministry of Agriculture, 40% gets the loan that returns that farmer and 10% participates in that land. It's a great decision, it's an excellent initiative by our Ministry of Agriculture, and that means that if some farmer from my neighborhood or the environment wants to buy a tractor, some connected machine, returns 50% of the price, 40% of the price takes a loan and 10% is the participation of that farmer. I suggest that within this, this minimum thing is 20,000 euros. I think it's a high scale for small agricultural producers, because a large number of agricultural producers, specifically from the neighborhoods I spoke about earlier, do not have the opportunity to provide these 20,000 euros. That is why I suggest that the minimum participation for this is 10,000 euros, because every landline in both southeastern Serbia and other parts of Serbia that are undeveloped areas can provide 10,000 euros for the purchase of a tractor, some connected machines, and in this way we also stimulate producers who work here in Serbia, that these are not import machines. It's a big deal, it's good, but to put it at 10,000 euros, so that the price is lower.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5139	Milia, I have to stop you. You've got another minute of beauty. The word is Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, peacemakers, good afternoon, a parliamentary group to whom I belong as the only parliamentary group of opposition since the first session of this session has been calling for an argument to discuss the problems that are primarily faced by the Albanian and Bosniak communities, but also by the problems faced by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We talked about the need for reconciliation among the peoples, about the importance of participating members of national minorities in public and political life in Serbia, about integration, about freedom of the media, about the rule of law, about the language of hatred of state officials. We talked about unexplained murders, the need to deal with the past, the harmfulness of war criminals and the negation of war crimes and many other issues, all in order to clear up the past and move towards a better future. But you, instead of showing patience and listening carefully, chose the method of throwing. Instead of understanding, you chose to attack. Maybe the authorities can't expect a different relationship because, according to Mesa Selimovic, no one in power is patient because everyone hates change and no one is smart, because smart people lose their wits. The only reaction to a speech on discrimination between Albanians and Bosniaks in the absence of a political will for integration is your response that this is Serbia a democratic state because the MP can speak freely. Imagine a country where democracy was measured by the freedom of the MP to speak in parliament, as if the democracy of charity in which the assembly majority decided to give to one MP, who, at least formally legally, is equal with all other MPs. It was silent when Minister Vulin used an offensive persuasive racist term – sheptari. It was also silent when the high court legalized in some way the use of hate language by liberating, or declaring the innocent Minister Vulin. All the remarks we've made here turned out to be the only thing that mattered to you was to know who was writing our speeches. That is exactly the attitude towards respect for human rights, the rule of law, respect for democratic principles and European standards we have come to a situation where in just the last three months we have three reports from relevant international institutions that make serious remarks on all these issues that we have raised in this House. The progress report, the European Parliament resolution and the State Department's report on the state of human rights in Serbia discusses, among other things, the return of democracy in Serbia. This is a serious problem. If the European Parliament resolution is adopted arrogantly with reference and insult to the euro MPs, the State Department report should not be treated that way. On the contrary, consider and consider the most seriously. What is important is that the US State Department's latest report says that members of the Albanian and Bosniak minorities are exposed to discrimination and difficulties in their employment, but it is explicitly said that state officials use hate language to the Albanian community in Serbia. These remarks and suggestions made in those reports were not written by the opposition, neither parliamentary nor extra-parliamentary, but by experts who came to these conclusions based on their analysis. Given that it is very relevant EU and US institutions, whose lack of respect can have consequences for the future of this country's European path, my question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, is that whether the government has a strategy to address all these issues that have become problematic in the report on the achievement of human rights in Serbia, that is, Serbia's progress on its European path? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5141	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5142	Dear President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, I would like to ask the question of the Ministers of Environmental Protection, and the issue of the problem of polluting Kriaya. The necessity of solving the problem of polluting the Krinja River at Backa Topola, but in the entire river basin I spoke before, and I received a response from the Ministry of Environmental Protection that they are legal persons, which are the biggest polluters in the obligation to build their purifiers by 2025. More specifically, the Regulation on the limit values of water pollution emissions and the deadlines for reaching them for companies whose business is at risk of environmental pollution has been ordered to bring action plans on the basis of which it will regulate the release of waste water into the river, and for legal persons the deadline for the implementation of these action plans is 2025. We are aware that these are complex, difficult and long-term processes, and for the citizens of Bašja, Backa Topola, Mali Ijoš and Srbobran is important every day and every week, every month, not every year. The health of the environment must not wait and therefore again address the Ministry of Environmental Protection, with the question - is there any way to speed up the solution to the problem that all together the Ministry, the local self-government, the economic operators are involved in solving this problem? Are there funds and funds through which the Ministry could support projects of the Municipality of Backo Topol, which would allow this problem to be solved? A long-term solution implies that apart from the central purifier, each company builds its own, its own primary and secondary purifier. However, the necessary assumption for the realization of this idea is the interest and involvement of all actors. What's been done so far, what's the local interest? What it says in favour of the interest of all key actors is the activities of the AP Vojvodina and the municipality of Backo Topola, and the company whose business endangers the environment in the river Krinaja. The city's central purifier project is funded by the AP Vojvodina and the local self-government of Backo Topola, and the town's purifier, with trial work, is expected to begin as early as this year. The Autonomous province of Vojvodina and the local self-government of Bačka Topola have otherwise invested more than 600 million dinars in the project, but additional support from the Ministry of Environmental Protection is needed to help companies build primary and secondary purifiers. Building primary purifiers is a condition for these companies to join the city's main purifier. Local self-government co-operates with company representatives, especially representatives of Zibel and Perutina Ptuj-Topiko. Thanks to Mr Stanic, the director of Žibela, a primary purifier for technical waste water was built and a project was designed for secondary filtration of waste water. Zibel also plans additional funds to reduce the intensity of the unpleasant smell. Otherwise, Zibel has recently invested around 140m dinars of its own resources in these projects. Perutina Ptuj-Topiko also allocated significant funds to build its primary purifier. So, at the local level, there is a willingness to work together, but additional assistance is necessary, and that is why I am also addressing the Ministry of Environmental Protection with a question of whether there are funds to facilitate the construction of private and secondary purifiers. For the time being, the primary purifier has no Topola meat industry, and we hope that the company will start with a project to build that purifier. The SVM parliamentary group is a position that only through joint work can we make better on the part of local self-government, private entities and AP Vojvodina is done part of the job, but we need the help of the ministry and therefore on behalf of the citizens of the three municipalities of Backo Topola, Mali Ijoš and Srbobran the question – is there any way that the Ministry of Environment supports projects that will result in a solution to the problem of polluting the Vernaya word? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5143	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5144	The Honorable chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, as one of the goals of the past, of this government, but probably all of the next governments and presidents of Serbia and all of us, is what many in the flossulas are always saying, and that is Serbia's salvation. To save our mother, we need to save her brain, which many agree is Belgrade, which I would totally disagree with, but what I would do is save her heart, which is the villages of Serbia. As one of the priorities and in order to achieve priorities, the Ministry of Village Care, which has been working for all these months, has been established, all agreeing with a clean ten and headed by Milan Krkobibic, the minister. I would rather not mention their actions, but rather ask the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction and the Ministry of Tourism, without whose help there is no rescue from Serbia. When I mentioned a place called Kamena Gora a year and a few days ago in a conversation with the president of Serbia, after about 60 seconds of talking about the hidden pearl of Serbia, the place for which many have accidentally discovered and fell in love with him, as well as in the whole area, as in the village of a hundred-year-old, as in a village where there is probably the most famous tree in Europe and as in one of the villages of Serbia that die, the president interrupted me and did something that no president had done until then, and they usually watched only what they had of it. He phoned his associates, resolute ministries, and told them that this pearl must be polished as soon as possible. He requested the construction of a small tourist complex in the village and announced it in his 20-25 programme the next day. That moment, at least he bought me for all time. What has happened since then, only the media has written about it, we've asked some questions here, villages around Prepolje still die. What I want to ask is a question from the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Tourism, and I ask you not to let the word "covid" be in your answer, because the bastard can't be an alibi for anything we don't do right. Since the project that the president was looking for is in my hand, I will show what this hotel should look like, was it done in about a month after the president announced the project, I ask the question – what status is this project in, is the start of the construction of this tourist complex in the village of Kamena Gora? I am also asking the question – is there an urgent recovery of the road between the town of Bara on the regional road of Prepolje-Jabuca, a road leading from the highway to the village of Kamena Gora from which many other villages depend? Is it possible to speed up the work on the revitalisation of the waterway in the area, because as far as I know in the budget of the regional self-government funds for this realization have been approved long ago, but are magically always redirected in another direction? I am not asking this question because I was born in that area, nor am I asking this question because I have some personal interest in this area, I ask this question because places like Stone Gore have all over Serbia and because all of us who do not have to deal with politics here, but also with life, to realize that until they survive these and such places and become pearls from which Serbia will live, we cannot hide in Belgrade alone. And that we are not saying that the heart of Serbia, that the hearts of Serbia are only when it is necessary to say it as a floscule, but that we all focus our forces, our ideas and our proposals together to locate these problems and try to solve them together. I'm asking the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Infrastructure that if I can answer these questions, if I don't, I'll try to deliver them to them myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5145	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5146	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the people, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in front of the parliamentary group, I would like to refer my question to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health. For more than a year, we have been living in a crisis caused by the pandemic of the Coronal Virus and, due to the new circumstances, the lives of all of us have taken on completely new outlines. A number of studies show that this crisis caused by the pandemic has the most impact and affects young people between the ages of 20 and 30. It is known that young people are the greatest supporters of association that gives them a sense of security, but also of belongings, and it enables them to feel and confirm, but it also has a positive impact on their maturity. Also, the change in schooling, their physical distance from their peers has an insufficient socialization and feeling of loneliness. The research conducted by the OSCE in co-operation with the Serbian Youth Roof has provided disturbing data, which is that the isolation that we have all been exposed to due to the state of emergency has had a bad or very bad impact on 53.4% of young people. Depression was 33.9%, panic attacks 21.5%, anxiety feeling 43.1% caused by concern for family, friends, infirmities and uncertainty. Before the pandemic itself, the second most common cause of death in young people was suicide. A few weeks ago, in just one night, three young people took their own lives, and in recent months these numbers have been getting more alarming. There are few who have consciousness and recognize symptoms, and they are not ashamed to talk on this subject and seek professional help. It further makes the situation more difficult for them and the fact that in Serbia, 27,000 young people come to a psychiatric specialist who could provide them with professional help. I thought that as well as the state and as a society with much greater attention we should approach this problem and when the pandemic itself passes, I sincerely hope that the end will come very quickly, I think we are just waiting for the consequences of this species, or all the side effects on the mental health of the entire nation, and especially the mental health of young people as the most vulnerable group and most vulnerable group. That's why my question is on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, is there a direct correlation between pandemics and suicides in young people? Is there a study that would give a comparison between the number of these cases in young people in 2020 compared to 2019? Is there a strategy to help young people after this pandemic is over? Also, as someone who has passed over this disease, i.e. the crown and who has come to know it directly, I appeal to all young people to be patient and responsible and to respond to the vaccine so that we can have the opportunity to enjoy the little things that have turned out to mean life and which are currently being denied to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5147	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5148	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Zagreb "Evening List" published a commendable text a few days ago on Serbia, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, on the results achieved by Serbia on vaccination, i.e. the fight against the crown of the virus. In fact, only the reality is that Serbia is an absolute leader in the region, but also in Europe. I will quote several parts – while Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic daily entertains us by arguing with President Zoran Milanovic, Croatia has experienced one of the greatest indignities since the end of the war under Plenkovic. The fact that Croatian citizens, at the invitation of Serbian authorities last weekend, traveled to the vaccination against Kovid 19 in Serbia, undoubtedly represents a difficult debacle for Croatia, for the Croatian political elite and for the Croatian vaccination plan that has suffered a complete failure. He goes on to say -- Serbian President, Aleksandar Vukic played this game great. In this move, too, when it comes to combating the pandemic, and vaccination against the herds the whole world recognises itself as the only way out of this chaos, it has definitely confirmed itself as the leader of the region, and even throughout Europe, given that Serbia is currently among the best in Europe and the world as regards the division of its population. More specifically, Serbia is now the first in Europe and the seventh in the world to a full population split rate. In Serbia, nearly two and a half million people received their first dose, and nearly a million Serbs were vaccinated. Since then, that percentage has increased. Also, Croatia's Seven-day portal recently published an article saying Serbia is far superior to Croatia and is also a leader in the region in terms of military capabilities, calling for an annual report by the renowned Global Firepower site, which each year makes a ranking list of national armed forces of individual countries. I'll quote some parts. The title says – we are not happy to hear it, but Serbia is stronger than Croatia. He says – nothing is surprising for the simple reason that Serbia has been in the huge process of restoring its armed forces since 2018. They realised a grant of moments from Belarus, a donation of moments and modernisation from Russia, from China they acquired long-range drones, from Israel and Turkey to obtain drones, tanks T72 from Russia, restoring anti-aircraft defences to French rockets "mystral" and Russian anti-aircraft systems Pancir-S1, so this is not news. Chairman, why am I bringing all this up? Because it is interesting what kind of relationship some domestic media, mostly those media under the control of Dragan Gilas, have when it comes to Alexander Vukic, when it comes to the Serbian government, about the results so far that no one, not even outside, can dispute from the world. Just look at the front pages of certain newspapers in the last few days. Here, let's take an example of a low-cost tabloid that long ago became Gilas' daily newsletter, just see their headlines, yesterday's edition says - the president can only tell the truth by mistake. The day before that – the pensioners vitamins and the medicine for memory. A few days before that, the government made a fuss, because the vaccines are running out of time. Now they're dealing with some conspiracy theories, as the vaccine's deadline stands out, which is why the government made a mess. A few days earlier, he says - why did he announce the vaccination in Rudna Glava Vukic? Now that's what they want to know, the only thing that matters right now is why it's in the Red Head. So they see and thus report on the results of the Serbian government, the president of Serbia. So what the whole world gives Serbia credit for, for them it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter to them, it's not even news to them, or it is news, but if they somehow try to put it in the context of the day policy, if they can somehow turn it into a campaign against Vukic, to arm somehow Vukic and charge him with a functional campaign or other nonsense. Apparently, in their hatred for Vucic, they completely lost the compass, so they began to attack, watch out, even one extreme human gesture, one ultimate human gesture. It is a package to help pensioners in the form of various vitamins, etc. Now, that's not good either, and now it's not good, and now it's campaigning against it. In doing so, I am not talking about a regular package of assistance to pensioners, a financial package, so 110 euros each pensioner, 30 plus 50 euros, but about this extraordinary action as part of the fight against the coronary virus, and in order to speed up immunity with pensioners. Now it's no good. Now they're campaigning against it, so they say populist measures and other nonsense. Look how far it goes. I'll be done soon. Look at that replacement thesis and that contradiction. For days, the N1 has been spinning the story that the state is not running a serious media vaccination campaign, that we are not working hard enough in this regard, and that the results are such that we are the best in Europe, the best in Europe, and among the first in the world. This is just telling you that in the fight against Vucica, absolutely everything is allowed and that they are able to attack ama just about every topic in this relationship. By who knows which time I will repeat myself at the very end, be the opposition to this authority, we have no problem with that, but stop acting as an opposition to the state, as an opposition to the people and national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5149	Thank you. Since no more than the president or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have been delivered the minutes of the 3rd and 4th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 3rd session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021, held on 16, 17 and 18 March 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total - 158, for – 141, did not vote - 17. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 3rd session of the First Regular Session. I am voting on the minutes of the 4th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021, held on 23, 24 and 25 March 2021. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total - 158, for – 142, did not vote - 16. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 4th session of the First Regular Session in 2021 by majority. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda. National MP Miodrag Lint, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 March. Does Ambassador Linta want a word? Yeah. Here, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5150	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is the essential reason why I submitted a bill on amendments and additions to the Refugees' Law is that in one fair and comprehensive way, the housing issue of all the expelled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH is finally resolved. It is the biggest victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia, along with internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija. I remind the public that the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration in the previous period did one survey and according to it recorded more than 17,000 exiled families living as tenants or inhuman conditions that are not worthy of man in the 21st century. In 2012, Serbia began to realise so-called A regional housing programme, aimed at resolving these 17,000 exiled families for the next five years, so by 2017, to resolve their housing issue. Unfortunately, the program was implemented very slowly, unprofessionally. Refugee and Migration Commissioner Vladimir Cucic said a few months ago that only 7,500 exiled families would be resolved. The programme has also been extended for four years, so until the end of 2021. It is absolutely unacceptable and inadmissible for the programme to be completed, with 9,500 exiled families being surveyed, and besides, there are several thousand families that are not registered, to remain resident or to live in inhuman conditions. That is why I have proposed that the government take the obligation, have the obligation to resolve the housing issue of all expelled Serbs and extend this housing programme until the issue is resolved. I also suggested that these amendments and additions to the Refugees Act be resolved, i.e. to allow over 1,000 exiled families to resolve their housing issues. It is about families who did not have a formal legal status of refugees or exiles, but are essentially expelled, and the Refugee Commissioner did not allow them to apply for the resolution of their housing issues through apartments, the assignment of construction materials, house installations and rural estates. Third, there are several categories of exiled families who are not allowed to buy their apartments. With these amendments and additions to the Refugees Act, I ask for this to be made possible by families of the so-called SIR program. It is a programme of permanent integration into seven local self-government financed by the Italian government. So, to enable them to buy out, to enable 49 exiled families living in DIPOS apartments, to enable all the exiled families who have received their apartments through the so-called. It's a social housing project in protective conditions. Also, I ask that changes and additions of the Refugees Act reduce the ransom price from 50% to 75%, for several reasons. The first reason is because it's about the greatest victims of war. Another reason is that the largest number of these apartments were done badly and unqualityly. The third, most important reason is that most of the funds were given by the EU and other international donors. Finally, in the end, I ask these amendments and additions to the Refugees Act that the part of the exiled families that have already signed purchase contracts, to enable them to an annex contract and to reduce the ransom price from 50% to 75%, to give them a double discount. Finally, I conclude, the appeal to adopt amendments to the Refugees' Law and to continue the regional housing programme and resolve the housing issue of all expelled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH as a key issue of integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5151	Thank you. I would just like to ask all MPs who have used their right to be proposing certain legislative proposals, i.e. initiatives and acts, to try to carry out with the competent ministries certain consultations on all these issues, so that we can realise some ideas that are from our point of view and the aspect of the majority justified, but now the question is that it all fits into a general policy that the Serbian Government is leading. We had this initiative where last time we had amendments and additions to the Law on Judges and the Government accepted it, but there were other problems. Until this was resolved, the motionor withdrew the bill. So, in order not to waste our time, I suggest, Mr. Linta, that we talk to the competent ministry, I assume it's the Commissioner or the Ministry of Daria Kissic. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 159 for – seven, did not vote 152. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ana Karadzic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 16 November 2020. The word is Anna Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5152	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, for who knows which time we suggest that the agenda be complemented by the point of forming a commission to determine the exact number of victims of NATO aggression and today I will not speak of Madlen Albright, nor Jacques Shirak, nor Clinton, all of this can be looked well at in one exhibition of "Defense 78", unless you have done so so far, because there is a full credit for the victims of aggression there. I don't even want to mention in 2000 when those who were able to do much more because the aggression happened in 1999, when everyone was fresh and they were able to reach the exact number of victims of NATO aggression, when they were able to reach those who were directly guilty, they did nothing except hand over their political opponents to The Hague tribunal and let others judge them. But today is not a topic, today I want to pay my respects to the victims of NATO aggression and say that they have not been forgotten, although it has been 22 years since civilians and soldiers were killed, when they were shot at both barracks and schools and kindergartens. It's been 22 years since anyone was responsible for this crime. 2,500 civilians were killed, 6,000 were wounded, 2,700 children. I believe this is a unique case when the legitimate target of the bombing was one media house, such as RTS, when sixteen people died. I was 10.5 at the time, and my emotions were mixed, I wasn't even afraid, I didn't even know what was going on, but our parents were afraid for us, and for a reason, because we're sitting here today, but many parents lost their children, 97 children were killed, 97 children killed by NATO activists. Under the bombs, the life of 11-month-old Bojana Tosovic from Merdar near Kursumlia was extinguished, today she would be 22 years old, two-year-old Marko Simic, who died in the arms of Father Vladjan in the bombing of a residential building, he would be 23 years old today, little Milica Rakic, who was killed on his costume in his bathroom, today she would be 24 years old, in the Grdelička clisur, killed by six-year-old Branimir Stojkovic, today 27 years old. I'm sure you remember that we also visited a concert called "The Song Against Bombs" and various other gatherings, because it's the only thing we could do then and in those years, but today we who were five, six, seven, ten, twelve years old today are sitting in the National Assembly and we can do much more, we have to do something for the victims of NATO aggression, we have to say by name and last name who these people who died, or killed by NATO criminals. We are obliged to make an accurate list of names and last names and ask the MPs to understand that it has been too long and that this is an opportunity to really do something that is up to us. President, you said we should see if there could be another problem if we adopted and put this on the agenda. I really don't see who could mind making a list of our children killed, innocent civilians and all those who protected our country, our soldiers, our police officers, everyone who was killed in 1999. I really don't see who that might bother or why we can't put it on the agenda once. I ask the MPs to vote for this proposal and finally form a committee that will finally do so, that we know the name and last name of who these people who killed NATO activists are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5153	Thank you. I did not say that your proposal would challenge this item of the agenda, but I was talking about what it looks like when a MP or someone other than the Serbian Government submits a legal text, there are always two things, which is – what means are needed to realize it and others, whether there is political consent. So that and anyone proposing this would be required to carry out certain consultations with the parliamentary groups on whether there is a possibility of that being adopted or not. I speak in principle. And as for this point, it has nothing to do with it. The past point on judges had to be removed because for the realization of this, something had to be isolated, there was a change in the financial system and it simply had to be removed. But it's got nothing to do with this, so we don't mix it up now. Now I have to put this proposal to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 158, for – 15, did not vote – 143. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote: total – 158, for – 140, did not vote – 18. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes established the agenda of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. The proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court We are moving to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that he has been invited to attend the session of Dragomir Milojevic, chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I say hello. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for order with the order of the MPs. According to Articles 192, paragraphs 3 and 201. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, who has submitted the Supreme Council of the judiciary since 16 March 2021. I suppose that the motionary representative Mr Milojevic will explain this proposal, but before I give the word to him and the rapporteurs of the board of directors, just once again remind you of what we have already said, which is that today we will be working on this agenda point and that after the debate is over, there will be a vote, so that today we will end this item of the agenda, that you will count on the vote to be somewhere in the late afternoon, when the time provided for by the parliamentary groups is up. Mr. Miloevich, just sign up for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5154	Dear President of Mr Dacic's Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable MPs, is ahead of you with a proposal from the High Council of the judiciary to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I believe that if we stick to the agenda, we will quickly finish this item of the agenda, not only because one candidate, but also because it is a good candidate who, hopefully, will justify our trust, first of all, is the trust of all the Supreme Court judges who have given her unanimous support. I will briefly remind you, although you have this material, of the genealogy of this entire election procedure, because of the public, that in mid-December 2020, the High Council of the Judiciary decided to sign an ad for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, that the competition, ad, came out on December 23rd, seems to me, in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", in the daily "Politika", and only Judge Jasmina Vasovic, Judge of the Supreme Cassation Court reported on that ad. In accordance with the relevant Rules of Procedure and criteria for the selection of judges and presidents of courts, a committee has been formed to consider its application, application and work programme. The Commission also assessed the work programme, held talks with the candidate, and received the highest rating. Given the data collected, the commission has proposed to the High Judicial Council that the judge, Jasmina Vasovic, be proposed to the National Assembly to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. It was done at a session, according to the president, since 16 March this year. This proposal was made by you, a reasoned proposal, and nevertheless, it is necessary to say that the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court, as I mentioned earlier, gave unanimous support to the candidate to the judge, Jasmini Vasovic, in hopes that it will justify our trust. In short, let me remind you a little bit of the public on her biography, given that there's some little dust up there. There's been a lot of noise, let's say, some objections and negative tones about why a candidate applied. Otherwise, when the High Council of the Judiciary decided to approach the election and to call an ad, I notified all the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation about it, and then when the ad came out, everyone got a photocopy of the competition ads, so that they were all informed and able to vote. Why and who hasn't voted, it's personal stuff, and you know the beauty of the world we choose between the candidates who applied, so it is in this case. So, the High Council of the judiciary has set out a proposal for Jasmina Vasovic to be elected president of the Supreme Cassation Court. A colleague was born on 1 August 1969 in Cačka. At the Faculty of Law, the University of Belgrade graduated in 1995 and passed the judicial exam on June 27th 2020. From 1998 to 2000, she was in the Law of the Municipal Court and then in the period from 27 June to 9 January 2002 as a judicial assistant in the same court. As judge of the First Municipal Court, she was elected on 27 December 2001, where an investigative judge was appointed by June 2002, from June 2002 to July 2003 in the Civilian Department. In the period from 2003 to 2009, she was assigned to act in the Criminal Department of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, and on 6 December 2009, she was elected Judge of the High Court in Belgrade, where she was deployed to the Department of Investigation and from 2011 to the Criminal Department of the same court. On 20 October 2013, she was elected and deployed to the Criminal Department, and in January 2015 she acted in the case of the Special Department for Organized Crime, 2013 as Judge of the Court of Appeal. She was elected Judge of the Supreme Cassation Court on 19 October 2018, where she was assigned to the Criminal Department. The representative is, these are her extrajudicial activities, in addition to this work in the judicial matter, she was also a representative of the Republic of Serbia in the European Judicial Network. He is a member of the Progressive Council of the Judicial Academy, mentor, lecturer and coach at the Judicial Academy. He has participated in numerous seminars in the area of justice in the country and abroad. She was a member of the Working Party and was the author of the Prosecution Act within a reasonable period of time. He's the author of several papers published in the judicial bulletins. He has certificates on completed mentor training in the organisation of the Judicial Academy, for the lecturer for the prosecution, police and judiciary in corruption and economic crime, for the coach in connection with the application of the new Code of Criminal Procedure, for effective management of the proceedings, for the rights of the child, for minor offenders and for the protection of minors, as well as the possession of special knowledge in the field of child rights and the crimes of young people. It was a short-term biography of candidates for the president of the Supreme Cassation Court of Judge Jasmina Vasovic. On behalf of the High Council of the Judiciary and on your own behalf and on behalf of all judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, I invite you to support this proposal by the High Council of the Judiciary and Judges, to elect Jasmin Vasovic as President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5155	Thank you, Mr. Milosevic. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word was requested by the People's Messenger, Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5156	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Representative of the High Council of the Judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is a very important topic for us Members of the People's Council of Justice and Reconciliation, as of all MPs of the National Assembly, and we will certainly pay considerable attention to it in accordance with the possibilities. We have heard that all the conditions for selecting the proposed candidate have been met procedurally. Psychologically, it may be a lack of candidate, but someone has no obligation to force anyone to run. The procedure has been fulfilled, all those who had the will or desire could run and we today have in fact the possibility and the obligation to vote the proposed candidate. Certainly with the right of all the Members of the People to state their views, opinions. Of course, if they also have some information that we are not familiar with about the candidate himself, until the candidate is elected he is not elected, every discussion will come in handy. Of course this is an opportunity to talk again about the subject of justice itself, especially since today we are choosing one of the most significant functions of the judiciary which is, in fact, in some ways, the last instance, the establishment of justice. If it happens, and happens very often, that justice does not work at lower levels of the judiciary, then in fact, these multiple instances are an opportunity for any injustice or failure in the very procedure of determining the justice of the document at that highest level. Of course, it is of particular importance that we have a healthy judicial system at the highest level. It must also not in any way distract us from establishing the health of the entire judicial system, even if it is the lowest courts, the basic courts, or some of their departments. In fact, the judicial system is like the vascular system of a single organism and you can't and cannot underestimate the smallest part of that vascular system, even if it's just a regular capillary. The clogging of that capillary, the clogging of that, let's say, parts of the vascular system on the extremities themselves can cause the disease of the organisms that are moving from the periphery, and then it is mostly poured out and spread across the rest of the body, that is, in this case, the judicial system. Therefore, the National Assembly is also the most important place and the most called body to look at all aspects in this case of the judiciary and simply sublime all information here, all views, and then from everything we get here we actually look for ways to solve existing problems or how to treat those parts of the organism or that judicial vascular system. I have personally spoken about the subject of justice several times, or on the subject of justice. The truth often and with someone, let me say, the theoretical aspect, but in a further period, we will be invited to go further and further down to the level of what an ordinary citizen is facing, and ultimately, it is the most important thing. Because in fact, the judiciary as well as the entire state system exist to protect man, to protect citizens, to protect every resident in this country and to actually be a framework in which everyone will be able to be a man in accordance with the applicable principles, legal norms, general civil values to develop their individual but also their collective subjectivity and identity. That is why certain phenomena we have on the ground cannot be considered irrelevant even if they were there in some Chamber that has been for decades, for years neglected by the entire system, including the justice system. True, for decades while Sjenica was under one compact system of government, which functioned according to the model of corruption and crime in full contact between local self-government, justice, police and prosecutors, in fact where the biggest problems were, it seemed like there were none, because when there was full harmony and full co-operation on that basis, we actually don't know about the problem. So the disease eats up the organism or one part of it, but the information doesn't come to the brain. And when does it happen, in fact, to escalate the problem? The moment we manage to get one of the constituents to say the criminal association that has been ruled by the Shadow for decades, we pull it out of those claws. So, there's been a change in local government, or in the past elections, a change in the power that holds in the dark of Sjenica or that kept in the dark of Sjenica, for decades, and now suddenly we get the anxiety of the other components. And it's not the first time I've talked about it, but from day to day we have an escalation of a problem that confirms the illness of certain aspects of the state's system in this area in this case and the justice and the prosecution and the police themselves, unfortunately. So, a few days ago, and it's not the first time, there's been a waste dump block in the city, or the town's municipality of Sjenica, it's true, not a sanitary dump, or what it's called, a wild dump that's not the only one in this country, you know that in the past few days we've been talking about a bright case of solving one of those dumps in Prijepolje, but unfortunately we're just a few miles east of that dump, which we've already solved together with the government and the competent ministry in Prepolje, we have this one at Sjenica and one of the other, on just a few kilometers from Priboj, which I believe there will be a topic of government and the competent ministry, but we know how complicated it is to solve this problem. But there's another problem going on here. A problem that can't wait to be solved. So, there is one group of people living in the area, near that dump and who are really threatened, so, wild or non-sanitary dump endangers people, but one group of people saw their chance, even during the previous government, they would eventually block that dump from time to time, and prevent municipal or municipal authorities from dumping the garbage into that dump and would actually force the municipal authority to negotiate with them, and most often it was not a requirement for the dump to be resolved and delayed. They already had their own personal demands, to hire one of them, to get a job. So, these blackmails were very often followed by certain, to say, effects for themselves and so the problem would be delayed, and then they would rest for a few years again and they would come back when they grew up or their new appetites were born, thus blackmailing the municipal government. We now have a municipal authority that is not subject to blackmail, which will not trade with them in such a way and of course the municipal government addresses state authorities. Imagine now here in Belgrade or any other major city of Serbia, that someone decides to protest for some reason, personal or political, is blocking the dump. He's blocking the waste disposal. What would you do? Would that be a political problem? Of course it wouldn't be a political problem. That would be a problem for the police or possibly for the prosecution and the judiciary. So there's a law on how to protest, there's a law on how there's a certain disdain, or a certain attitude of citizens or anyone, but to block the functioning of a municipality, and that, in addition to all these problems with pandemics and diseases that arise from that problem, we're now getting into the Shadow, a new danger of suffocation, and new dangers of an epidemic of poisoning due to waste management. So, we've been in serious trouble for a few days now, and what does the police say? You know, we're not in charge, we can't do it without the D.A.'s office, what does the D.A. say -- says there are no elements of the crime, I can't function, what does the judiciary say? Likewise. There hasn't been a problem. Please, and what kind of picture we're sending, if we add to that the fact that we're only five days away from Ramadan, to the Ramadan post for Muslims, especially important on various grounds. So what's he gonna do now? We are entering the Sjenica in Ramadan filled with garbage, where the municipal service, or municipal administration, is prevented from saving the citizens, i.e. to expose the citizens, does not expose the dangers of disease and everything else. So it's the same justice system as those prosecutors, the same police that I was talking about when they declared themselves to be a security situation in the Senate just three weeks ago when we were kidnapped by the head of the school. When they say, it's regular, it happens. So we're going to choose the president of the Supreme Cassation Court and show that the state works at the highest level, but whether it works at the lowest level. What kind of messages are we sending? What kind of country is there to create an atmosphere? I know it's not like that, but at least I know here in the Assembly, at least I know in my communications, with other instances of this government, but it's been a real atmosphere thanks to the fact that over the past decades it's been allowed in some municipalities of Sjenica to be one of those victims, that's where people grow up in the police, the prosecution and the judiciary as local cabadies, because it's been neglected, let's go down there, we don't care, we don't hear it, we can't see it, etc. No, it can't do that. We can't tell everything is okay because the problem is happening 300km from Belgrade, we can't deal with it. And we cannot remain at the level of symbolic political, therefore, communication. This is where he has to react. The police are required, please, without the prosecution and without any other authorities, but if they turn around, then they must be supported by the prosecution and by the judiciary, but whoever blocks the functioning of the system, the functioning of life, it must therefore be removed from space, or it must be processed and it must not be allowed to endanger people's lives. Burying people with garbage, not carrying garbage from a small town, from a town, is a direct blow to the lives and health of these people. On the other hand, you remember, I was saying, speaking about organised crime, in one of their previous exhibitions, cited an example of the furniture manufacturer in Novi Pazar, some of the furniture producers, who are hiding their crime, drug trafficking and crime behind their factories and furniture production, ideally many trucks, large transport trucks, for furniture that are actually just a front for a major crime. This speech of mine caused great attention, especially in Novi Pazar, and after returning to Pazar, I received a delegation, which was represented by furniture producers and who thanked me for having delegated this issue here in the Assembly, but also asked me to pass on to the competent state authorities to react and to separate the grains from the dolls, because they say, and they are right to, in fact, cause great harm to these serious, honest furniture producers, who, therefore, work honestly and do not deal with crime. They do them harm first by putting a lot of dirty capital into this business and eliminating fair competition, loyal competition, because they're more competitive with dirty money and they're actually suffocating these normal producers. On the other hand, they certainly defile their reputation. That's why they asked me to transfer to the competent state authorities to strengthen, in fact, to take what it takes to get those who deal with crime under the heading of furniture production actually processed. The third thing, which also has to do with the judiciary, which I want to point out here, which especially inspired me this morning as I was about to come here, I saw, on one television with a national signal, a person who was legally convicted of terrorism, openly promoting terrorism. So, a person who was legally convicted of acts of terrorism, who served a legal sentence now gets the chance to talk about it juicyly, as he did, prepare his terrorist actions, drop bombs, shoot with the aim of killing, etc. It happens on television that has a national signal, which has a license, therefore, to competent agencies, which is the resource of all citizens. Not only that, a few days ago a newspaper, or newspaper, the most investigative newspaper in this country, has given the same man the title page and several pages for a major interview, to talk about his acts of violence and ideology. This man is from Novi Pazar, this man comes from the order of Bosniak Muslims and I feel worse and upset there, that in addition to all these years of our activities to actually bring here to Belgrade a real picture of Sandzak Bosniaks and Muslims. Again, a picture is taken that is not the true face of Sandzak, of Bosniaks, of Muslims. That's inadmissible. In this interview, what he said in that interview was that the judge who sentenced him to years-long sentence after he got out of prison, hosted Novi Pazar, while in the same interview said he was in solitary prison, with an explanation that he would not endanger the judge and the prosecutor who convicted him. Please tell me, where did this happen on the globe that the judge who tried someone for an act of terrorism and sentenced him to a multiple-year sentence went to his guests? Please, what is this picture of the state, the picture of the judiciary, about the media not talking? It is a topic for another occasion where we actually provide such a promotion through which the very negative emotion of non-Muslims, Christians, our neighbors who will say – wait, see who grows, who develops, who tends to lead, to talk about faith, to interpret religion, Islam, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, these are inadmissible things. I can't imagine what kind of judge that is, if that's true. I was just quoting what that person said. Please, the authorities have to check it out, even if it's an ex-judgment. And the former judge is still a judge. So he's wearing the face of justice. What kind of message is that? Is the intention of both the judge and those who provide him with such a promotion on the media and who else is involved? Ladies and gentlemen, we have to deal with what's obviously called some underground state, some parts of security services or quasi service or I don't know what it is anymore, but this smells bad, what we can see, here's what we saw this morning, so it's a show that lasted more than half an hour in the prime time of the morning program, these are terrible things. If in this way all of these processes, reconciliations, dialogues, mutual introductions and normal atmospheres of life are actually going to stop and threaten with such acts, then please tell us that it is said that it is pointless to do what we do if in this way one terrible face of what Muslims are not, what Bosniaks are not, what Sandzak is not. It seems to me that somehow these procedures leave the effect of the possibility of chaos and the possibility that everyone actually takes the law into their own hands, that everyone does what they want, threatens and represents those things that are very destructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5157	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5158	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Milojevic, today we are discussing a motion for a decision to elect the president of the highest court in our country, or President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Tendeciously, I say to the president, although it is a female member, so as not to prejudge premature conclusion. To begin with, I can say that as a society, we can be satisfied with the situation, that is, the way gender equality is being conducted in our country. Here I think of the fact that members of the less-represented sex are in some very important and responsible functions, not only within the framework of the executive, but also within the framework of the legislative framework, we now see it as part of the judicial authority in the Republic of Serbia. The Supreme Cassation Court is the highest court in the Republic of Serbia. He began his work in 2010 and currently has 41 judges. His mission, above all, is to coordinate, control and bring all courts into line at the level of our country. You will agree that this is not a very simple task, because, among other things, it is expected to deal with a number of issues that as such are very complex, or complex. Here I think of ensuring equal legal protection for all citizens in the Republic of Serbia, primarily by carrying out legal procedures, then by solving cases, in accordance with the principles of fairness of the procedure within a reasonable period and with respect for human and minority rights and fundamental freedoms of all citizens living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, the good judiciary depends on effective management, but also on the quality and rational use of resources at the disposal of the judicial system in one country. So we see that this is about one causal-median relationship between everything that the Supreme Cassation Court is doing on the one hand, and all the courts on the other hand. It must be viewed exclusively in this way, or any other understanding would be wrong. It is often mentioned in the public that the judiciary is synonym for courts. On the contrary. The judicial system has one whole broader meaning and it covers a series of institutions that each within its own jurisdiction can contribute to the creation of a common, or single picture of the state of justice in one country. I also have to mention that courts are not even the generators of many of the social problems we have, even though it sometimes seems so. If we look at the quality of justice through the way the judges act, I have to separate it from a number of factors. One of them is high-quality legislative solutions that must be in line with international standards, then good training of judicial authorities, which includes their permanent improvement, the relevant territorial organisation of courts, which means that they must be adequately divided in terms of their actual competence and ultimately by providing adequate numbers of judges and judicial staff to ensure that all this work can be qualityd. The judicial reform initiated, i.e. reform of the judicial authority, is not possible only with changes to the Constitution. It is true that the Constitution is both an initial and a final phase, i.e. a segment of the regulation of a judicial system, but I think that we as a society must create an ambience in which the position of the judicial authority will be viewed in an independent manner in the sense that it must not depend on any other authority of the government that we have in the country, but only on the extent that it is necessary to ensure that independence and independence. I also mention that the Supreme Cassation Court has an inflow of over 15,000 cases a year, i.e. some 15,000 cases a year, of which the culprits are significantly less burdened with civil matter, which is also logical if we consider that it includes both labour law and economic matter. It is a huge burden for the Supreme Cassation Court itself. We must not forget that, apart from these cases that the Supreme Cassation has to act on, there are other obligations outside the trial, which in the end affect the entire judiciary, trials and courts at the level of the entire country. It must deal with the uniformity of court practice in order to prevent, or eliminate, the unequal conduct of judges in the same or similar cases. Then, he must deal with taking unique positions on issues that still cause doubt, and then re-create unequal court practice. Then, the Supreme Cassation Court must actively participate in the legal process itself. I am thinking of making certain proposals to create, i.e. to make legal norms that would be applicable and which could later remove potential problems in the functioning of the judiciary. So we see that this is about a very broad spectrum of interrelated issues that only in one common synergy can give appropriate ovaries. They are already largely resolved at civil department sessions held once a month within the Supreme Cassation Court and they are an example of good practice, because they represent some kind of improvement, by exchange of views, and that is essentially the task of the Supreme Cassation Court. I also mention that the efforts of the Supreme Cassation Court to bring court practice into line have been praised by the European Court of Human Rights. For example, the position of the Supreme Cassation Court on the conversion of loans taken into Swiss francs served as an inspiration to pass laws. As such, he is righteous for many reasons. First, he reconciled the opposing interests, kept the contracts in place, facilitated the position of the debtor, removed the potential crisis of the banking system that could have occurred in the case, and eventually reduced the number of court cases that could have significantly slowed the work of the courts, which had been sufficiently burdened by the time. I will give an example of Slovenia, which according to the model, i.e. the position of the Supreme Cassation Court on this matter, has passed its law on conversion and it is commendable, i.e. it shows that, when it comes to this issue, the Supreme Court of Cassation has indeed made efforts to address this issue seriously and seriously. Mr. Milojevic, about a month ago, if I am not mistaken, you listed among the priority activities of the Supreme Cassation Court the solving of old cases and, in that sense, presented your proposal for a single programme of solving old cases in Serbia for the period from 2021 to 2025. I think it's important that we talk about it more and more often in order to understand the importance of solving these cases, because that is the only way we can sum up the real work of the courts at this point, which would be relieved of these old cases that we carry back years. Thus, with the support of the EU, the Supreme Cassation Court carried out an analysis of the resolution of old cases according to the amended Single Programme for the period 2016-2020. After that, a comprehensive analysis of what was done on the old cases for the period 2012 to 2020 was carried out and I must say out loudly that the results were not commendable, i.e. they indicate that it was not met with the programme provided for by the strategic documents of the Supreme Cassation Court. I wouldn't link the absence of results to the work of judges and judges. On the contrary, we must not view them subjectively and for this there are probably many objective reasons that we must sum up and see in order to know that we can find the cause of the failure of those plans that the Supreme Cassation Court has determined by strategic documents. I mean overloading Belgrade courts and courts in the seat of an appeal, that is, less-loaded courts. Then I think of the unexpected inflow of new cases, which led to over two million new cases that were neither planned nor covered by this strategic document. I can say that one of the reasons for this can also be the non-fulfilment of vacancy, which in the last four years was about 400 on an annual level. In recent years, the trend has improved significantly in the sense that the free, or vacant judicial posts are being filled in so that the job can be completed as soon as possible. Finally, no less important is the state of emergency and the pandemic of the Covid virus, which has greatly reduced efficiency, or slowed down the trend of reducing these old cases. The judicial system has been stabilised in this sense in 2018 and 2019, but it still needs to be done to review the reasons for the existence of old cases, primarily in civil matter, which is not the case with the culprits, to fill in, or to supplement the individual programmes of their resolution, because that is the only way in which, by the activity of the president himself, we will be able to find the cause, and hence the solution to this problem. You will agree with me that the formation of teams to monitor the resolution of old cases in courts also did not give the expected results, and perhaps the reason for that was that they were not productively used enough, which may be a mechanism for their control in terms of reporting, the obligation to meet regularly and other small segments which in the end may have a crucial impact on the reduction of the subject. In addition, according to the conclusion of the task force that was to monitor the resolution, namely the implementation of this unique programme, the idea was to assign old cases exclusively to experienced judges. Practice has shown that in certain courts these same cases are solved by younger judges who are either under-experienced or simply are not so much in matter that they can be dealt with seriously. Finally, the candidate for Supreme Cassation Court President Mrs. Vasovic listed a number of things in her programme to improve the work of courts as some of the basic goals. I'll try to sum them up in one simple way. This implies equating judicial practice, which I spoke about earlier, then improving the expertise of the judiciary through the improvement of the work of the judges themselves, improving transparency and availability of the judiciary itself, and ultimately institutional strengthening of judicial authority and strengthening co-operation with other institutions that together make up a judicial system. You will admit that one such plan is quite ambitious, but, as Gete said, every bold idea at first looks like madness and therefore, without doubting the good intentions of the candidate, as well as the willingness to seriously address these issues, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Rasim Ljajic, will in the day when it is decided to support your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5159	Thank you, colleague. The word has an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, MP Tom Fila. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5160	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, a good part of what I wanted to say was said by the previous pay phone and I support it, and I don't think that if I say one truth five times, it's worth more than being told once. So what you said is absolutely fine. I especially want to welcome former President of the Supreme Cassation Court Dragomir Milovic, because I had the honour of defending myself against his council. He's a great culprit and he'll understand what I'm about to say. What is most important is that in the day to vote, the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs will support the president of the Supreme Cassation Court, Jasmin Vasovic. I've seen the biography, I've seen everything I need. I don't mind being the only one suggested. That doesn't mean the absence of democracy. Maybe the others would get scared when they see a candidate like that. Lawyer's chamber and chambers don't mind. So, we're all in the Socialist Party for. What I want to take advantage of is the part of this time I have to talk about justice, and that conversation is never enough. Generations were taught at the Law School, which I belong to, one that God is in heaven, and a judgment on earth. It's the ideal of justice that my generation, as well as the previous, tried to reach, but we didn't. I hope you juniors can make it. I would like you to reach that level of justice that will be – God in heaven, and judgment on earth. To achieve this, the court must be independent. When I tell the court, it means both the prosecution and the attorney's office. But the court is the key to the story. In order for the judges to be independent, they must be paid well. You know, I've been going on for a long time. I've been a lawyer for almost 60 years since 1965. I was present, when I started, there were two women judges in the Belgrade District Court, now having two or three men. It's not because of gender equality, that we wanted it, but that there was a disaster in the judges' salaries, and it was the escape of the men from the court. Many have gone to law school, many have succeeded in law enforcement, and one of them, Novak, who he knows and the president, I won't say his last name, it's not even convenient, he told me, after five or six months of lawyering -- for the first time with a woman, we enter a supermarket without having to look at prices. The judges' salaries should be like that, so they don't have to look at prices if you want an independent judiciary. Because then we can expect the court to judge by the Constitution, the law, international contracts, etc., and not to judge as in Emperor Dushan's law, the end was, that judges judge by law and not by fear. What kind of justice do we really want? I'll give you another example. Here, "Family" is now current, Milosevic is told, it is said that it was and what was it. I will tell you, since I was an actor, present and defender of Slobodan Milosevic. I'll also tell you what's wonderful for the court in that procedure, and what's bad for the prosecution. Day 31. 3. In 2001, it was Saturday, Slobodan Milosevic went with me to CZ, in the car were investigative judge Goran Covlin. Free Milosevic has been heard. On the same day that he was arrested on March 31st, a request was filed by the district attorney for the determination of detention, a request for an investigation and a motion for arrest. It was done by Goran Covlin, as an investigative judge, and then the case against Slobodan Milosevic entered where it should be, legally, where the court is in charge, the judges. This means that before the 31st, there was no request from an authorised prosecutor, and therefore there was no investigative judge, as there could be no investigative judge before the prosecutor. And then I ask you -- and what was it on Friday, when it was shot, when people in coats, not in uniform, in coats with long pipes, shot at those who provided the villa and the former president, were wounded, etc.? Then what was that? Legally not. Then there was something wrong, and it was wrongly called banditism. Now it's called terrorism, it's a new term. So, I guess after we found out that nothing legal could have happened, on March 30th, the D.A.'s office examined who was on that fence, who shot it, who shot the cop, what was that anyway, who were those people? But the prosecution doesn't know it then, but it doesn't know it today either. Here, this Legion reports from the prison, as much as he believes, that it wasn't the Surchins, it was his JSO, which means the police are the state police. A politician who had almost sat here in a bench claims Dusan Spasojevic told him that they had been damaged by five million, how much they would have gotten if they had kidnapped Milosevic and taken him to Tuzlo. Who do you trust, I don't know? One thing is certain, there was no request from the prosecution on March 30th. So they were bandits, organized by the state or on their own, it's all one thing. I speak legally. We've shared the roles here, my colleague and I, Dubravka and I are talking about law, other speeches, here's a colleague of music, there's both medicine and everything else. So, I'm going to speak legally, not politically, I don't care. I wasn't interested in politics when I was young, and I'm not interested in politics right now. By making a solution to the detention and investigation, which was related, and the solution to the investigation was customs, Milosevic damaged federal customs by not sending money from the Republic of Customs to the state customs office. That's what's left until he goes to The Hague. There was an extended investigation later, when he was already in The Hague. So, if it wasn't sad, it would be funny if the former president of the Republic had to go to jail for customs, and the other defendants, who were, Zebic, etc., were all at home. It was clear, and I told him that those guarantees were for him that night. Now I listen to various, those staunch members of the government who are engineers, I don't know what they are and say that a lawyer, like Toma Fila, could believe that annex that was hit by the government of Serbia's state seal and signed by Zoran Djindjic, that messenger Chad on his behalf. How could I believe this? I didn't believe it. Milosevic believed, because he believed, it does not matter to whom he promised Zoran Djindjic not to betray him, to The Hague. You know, when someone tells you something like that, then think about whether they forgot that on March 31st, by midnight they had to extradite Milosevic, get him to jail, if they were counting on him to get what was promised to them by America, etc. Did they get it? I don't know, but they promised, and it's already politics, and I don't care. What happens next? The government of that Serbia, that so-called The government, realizes that something is wrong, that they have this obstacle, and I guess Professor Grubač explained it to them, to God that his soul is simple, and they bring some regulation that they want to send them to, not only Milosevic, but apparently everyone else, to The Hague. What's going on now? We lawyers of Slobodan Milosevic, there were many of us, I think Zdenko Tomanovic wrote that request to the Constitutional Court, I know that I did not, or Misa Ognjenović, one of us, we all signed, we judge that the regulation does not comply with the Constitution of Yugoslavia. The Constitutional Court is making it right... I always want to show you the papers, not to mention the Constitutional Court is putting you in power, and then on November 6th, when Milosevic is up there, that same Constitutional Court, the rapporteur was Arangel Markicevic, making a decision that the federal government's non-constitutional regulation in co-operation with The Hague tribunal. We now have another obstacle, not just an annex, which is what I am no lawyer can swallow, but now you have the Constitutional Court's decision not to. What's going on now? As you know, Central Prison isn't a hallway, it's not a train station. To go to an investigative prison, there must be an act by Judge Cavline, Goran Cavline, the district court's investigative judge in Belgrade, Slobodan Milosevic becomes a resident or detainee, better said, of the Central Prison. When the Constitutional Court decision was made, they are now chasing the judges because the court has put Slobodan Milosevic in jail. The court needs to allow him to be transported to The Hague. Why did I tell you this? Because we need these judges, as were the President of the Supreme Court and the District Court and the investigative judge, I'm not going to tell them names, because they don't think I'm doing anything. They're all in opposition today. What was I gonna say? So no judge wanted to sign such an anti-constitutional, illegal and miserable act not only on Vidovdan, but on that day at all. What are they doing? They're looking for an officer at the Ministry to sign it. Remember, all of you who listen and all those who were members of the government, not only the obstacle to the extradition of Milosevic to The Hague was the guarantee of Zoran Djindjic, but also the decision of the Yugoslav Constitutional Court that it could not and the refusal of judges to sign an act allowing Slobodan Milosevic to be transferred to The Hague. Three obstacles exist, but these are pressed by what's been pressed, that's what they do. That's why I'm saying that to congratulate the judges then, we need such judges, brave, independent, and we don't need such prosecutors sitting around and running to the government to hear what they're supposed to do. How could Milosevic get out of court, out of prison, without a court decision? Well, the court put him in jail. The one who set you up, the one who can get you out. I've never seen a detention been lifted by the decision of Zoran Djindjic or anything like him. By the way, the court that determines the detention, that one will either suspend it or the Supreme Court by appeal, etc. Now I wonder, for the second time, what is the prosecution doing? The prison manager gives, teaches Slobodan Milosevic, Cedomimir Jovanovic who is legally nothing, nobody and anything that follows him into the helicopter, and then allows photography, painting and these pictures appear in the list of "Telegraphs" or I don't know what his name is, which is also an insult to man and human rights violations. But at least it's that injury. That's why we need to know that these people like that prison manager, like the people who waited for him and followed him, and now it almost turns out that those people saved him, who knows what would have happened to him if it hadn't been for them... What did the prosecution do? Did the warden give it to you? Was this one involved? Did he do something? Nothing, you just have three judges I repeat for the third time, for the third time, every hat... What the French say. To finish by the end, this initiative by the Serbian government is therefore necessary in terms of changing the constitution in order to strengthen the court and the prosecution. If it is not within the mandate of this Assembly, I wish you that in the next term, most of you will be there, I from some certain, especially because of the birth certificate will not be, but you will be, to do so. I don't think it's our job to choose the president of the Supreme and not need the Casation. They're grandmothers and frogs, but it'll probably be Supreme Court, as it should be and as it was in my day. We need to strengthen that. We have a pandemic today. Today we raise doctors to heaven, but the court is the basis of the story, the foundation of democracy, the protection of human rights. Without a court of law, there's nothing, and I'm not saying it as a lawyer, I'm saying it because it is. As for those who talk, the annex was not worth it, and about you and us, I listen to them on televisions all over the world, you know Einstein once said: two things are immeasurable, human stupidity and space, and it is not safe for the universe. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5161	Thank you, Mr. Phila. For our children, the MP Milenko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5162	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Milojevic, dear colleagues, we have received a proposal that you have explained. We also got a biography that you explained. I won't hold on to anything honestly. We also noticed that, I wouldn't call it the woods, I wouldn't call it the way or define it the way you did, but we have noticed the activities of some people from the judiciary who are on the daily level of guests of the tycoon media and who for the purposes of a political group gathered around the richest people in politics, not only in Serbia but beyond, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and others, present certain attitudes and amount to certain things which are in principle not very valid with what are facts, but probably a team worse by the very fact. I'm glad we're talking today about Mr. Miodrag Majic answering at the NIN. He posed on the front page. You see, you have this picture with these hands and a slight view up to the left, and you have this photo, especially with your hands crossed, and the view is lost somewhere in the distance while worrying about how the state of Serbia will function. As soon as Mr. Majic regrets, I'll do what he said about the candidate we're talking about today. Mr Majic announced four years ago a rebellion in a judiciary that unfortunately did not happen and now laminates over the fact, worst of all about his colleagues, Mr Milojevic. He's talking about you in the first part of his interview, so he says you agreed to the rank level, says you're disappointed and defensive. He also complains of the people because the people want a firm hand, so that nothing bothers him in this land. He complains about young people who have accepted half-time, not like him, some kind of fight or whatever. So it's the people's fault, his colleagues' fault. Of course, it is his fault that the president of the Republic is going through every response, and it is his fault that the Serbian Parliament is also because my esteemed colleague, Verola Arsic, in one debate, dared to ask him why he was protecting rapists and that as an MP, he would like to see Mr Majic here, to ask him what he was doing. Of course, Judge Majic is scandalous, with the idea of being invited to the Assembly to answer. Here I am now telling him that we will neither call him nor want to see him. We sincerely disgust him, for I cannot find another expression for the man who judged him as he judged and explained the judgments as he explained them. And I am particularly pleased that today on the World Roma Day, which I would like to congratulate our fellow citizens and friends of the Roma, we have the opportunity to talk about the scandalous verdict of Judge Majic, who he says neither of us has read. Here is the verdict – KŽ 1392/2019 of 10 June 2019 by which Judge Majic, as the President of the Council, freed the defendant, accused of committing a criminal offence against the child referred to in Article 180(2), from 20 July 2017 to 24 August 2017 in connection with Article 1. KZ. Since he wants his colleague Majic to talk about the verdict, here's what we'll talk about. The Court of First Instance says that the defendant did not act in an irrevocable legal error that excludes the existence of a criminal offence and concluded that the accused as an average citizen was aware that the entry into sexual relations with the child was prohibited, that before the first entry into sexual relations with the child insisted on the age of damaged, that the pregnancy of the damaged was later established, and that all the traits of the criminal offence being placed on the burden imposed on him by law and so on. But that's when Judge Majic comes to the scene. And I am convinced that respected SPS ladies have special sensitivity when it comes to 13-year-old girls, over whom someone makes a promise. And that they are particularly interested in protesting the fact that the person who makes the promise of a 13-year-old is being released because of an irrefutable legal delusion, because she was a member of the Roma national community. And that's what the ladies of honor are all about, in light of Judge Majic's verdict. Starting with the fact that the accused and damaged members of the Roma national minority, the Court of Appeal in Belgrade primarily valued the circumstances of a concrete case as part of the socio-cultural characteristics of the ethnic community in terms of the form of marital and family relations. This is dear gentlemen fascism, this is racism. And that's why we hate Judge Majic, and that's why we'll never invite him to sit here with us. What we are interested in is that the Serbian judiciary has the courage to judge those who consider themselves to have the right not to answer to anyone for what they did. Unfortunately, one part of the Serbian judiciary is an accomplice to the abuse of political opponents, Dragan Gilas. Hundreds of lawsuits were filed by this gig thief against anyone who told him that the gig was a thief, because when he stole and stole from this people and this country, no one was allowed to ask him what you were doing, because he was the government, and now that he had to answer for what he was doing, no one should ask him, because he's going to sue him. And that's the idea he's run when he file hundreds of lawsuits against his political opponents. It's a tactics called "slap" or "blind" in the United States, as a slap, which is essentially fear and material exhaustion to achieve the silence he wants. That no one dares to tell a thief that he is a thief, that no one dares to ask where you get money from in Mauritius, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United States, Switzerland, Italy, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia, Bulgaria, Moldova, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Cyprus, Hong Kong? Where the hell do you have no more money, man? And all 67,966,814 dollars and 35 cents. Your money, our money, because this money didn't fall from the sky, it was taken from you, from your parents, from your grandparents. And when they ask what's not here and what's not there, here's why it's not there and why it wasn't there. Because there can't be 68 million dollars in Dragan Gilas' accounts and roads from Zrenjanin to Novi Sad in four strips. He can't, he doesn't have enough for everyone. Here's what was the priority of him and his government. Not that we have roads, not that we have hospitals, not that pensioners have pensions, but that he has 68 million dollars in 17 countries, in 53 accounts. The question of responsibility is now being raised. The final question of responsibility. That's what state authorities do. We'll have soon, or the application of the Law on the Origin of Property Survey has already begun, so we'll see who acquired the property and how it became so rich. Are they damaged and how damaged they are, because I am convinced that both the state and its citizens are. In any case, someone has to judge. Someone with enough courage and someone with enough integrity to resist this criminal octopus, Dragan Gilas, someone with enough courage and enough integrity to answer the question why one foreign embassy paid Vuk Jeremic money to deal with politics in Serbia? From where sevenm euros for the 2017 presidential campaign, Presidential candidate Vuk Jeremic, etc.? Where do millionaires come from in the euro after only a few years of government? Where did they come from, and how did they get to do nothing but pick up the spoon and be a millionaire? And how did they come into that position at the time when this state fell the most, when they shared 500,000 layoffs, when they destroyed the private sector, when they then destroyed the public sector, when they basically destroyed everything? Justice awaits the people. He wants to see justice. I know and I understand that law and justice are unfortunately two different categories, but you have to strive to be as close as possible. The people are waiting for justice, because he's sick of crooks like Dragan Gilas who make him silly all these years, who look us in the face and laugh at us and who are now filing criminal charges against those who say he has these accounts, but not in criminal reports that there is no account, but that what is shown is not done. So, the object of the dispute is not whether Gilas has or has no money, but whether it's a copy or not, whether it's a neck or a neck. Well, if it's not a neck, it's a neck, then we'll wave the verdict and say, "Yeah, here, look how they lied." No one lied. A liar is Gilas, as is a thief. Normally, he won't say he has 68 million dollars in foreign accounts, because it's the end of his political career. That's why he kept quiet for three days, because he didn't know what he was going to say when they asked him. Then he remembered he wasn't answering questions, like a genius tactics to apply silence, to defend himself with silence. As he will defend himself before the state authorities and the courts of this country, we will have the opportunity to see. What we need are judges who are free, who are independent and who are brave to judge by law and all alike, and when it comes to Gilas and his thieves, and when it comes to people who have abused the fact that Aleksandar Vukic works for Serbia every day, so they put his backs in their pockets. And they have to answer, and no one's membership card can be an excuse, no forgiveness, no party, no ruling, no opposition card, no SPS. So this is what will lead to the satisfaction of the justice and faith of the people in the judiciary, to see that finally all those thugs in local self-government who have become millionaires are responding to how they got that money while they patched up the end. Finally, I am glad that candidate Jasmina Vasovic, among other things, has passed the training on the rights of the child, on the criminal protection of minors etc., and I would be very interested in what she would have to say about this scandal of Miodrag Majic's verdict. So, once again, let me look back at the verdict number H 1392/2019, as the Honorable Judge says that we are not in this business and that someone here would throw tomatoes at him if he came. Like I said, we're not dealing with him because it's our pleasure, but because this can't be a role model for any judge. This can't be a picture of our judiciary. This cannot and must not be a rule in Serbia. Instead of doing his job, he's giving lessons to others, waiting for the rebellion of the judge, whose head he's going to be on, so everyone's insurgency is going to do what I don't know. He wasn't in a mouse hole on October 5th. Since he is very sensitive to political deployment, he was not bothered by his political appointment by late Minister Zoran Stojkovic. That was okay? So, when it comes to him, then politics doesn't matter, then politics is fine. But when it comes to others, then look for a hair in the egg and a thorn in the eye that doesn't bother him when it comes to him. All in all, we will, of course, support today's election of candidate for Supreme Cassation Court President Jasmina Vasovic, with confidence and hope that this appointment will also lead to Serbia's citizens, to see justice, to feel justice, and to judge everyone according to what he did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5163	Thank you. I guess it's a replica. The word is from a colleague of Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5164	Dear colleagues, dear colleague Jovanovic, you spoke very highly, and that confirms the applause that I waited for to pass so that I could not replicate, explain. You've had an intervention, it's certainly right, whether or not you're talking about a specific case which, unfortunately, is embarrassing for all people who have cheeks, not for those who have reached such a verdict. Do not have a dilemma, neither you nor the citizens of Serbia, that when it comes to such precedents, the Socialist Party of Serbia is absolutely against it and will fight it as long as we are in this room. What also happens when we talk, is that we know that sometimes we don't hear each other or something else, which seems important to us, distracts us, and you've warned colleagues who are getting ready not to speak as skillfully and not as experienced as you are on the same subject, which is not easy. So when we talk about judges, I'm afraid we're all witnesses of socialists being able to speak on the subject for a long time, what it looks like when unprofessional judges accuse and judge. If someone was the victim of this, it was members, members and officials of the Socialist Party of Serbia decades ago. A lot of things are abused when it comes to the judiciary. We've been victims of this many times, and I totally agree with you when you're putting an accent on unprofessionalism, when you're putting an accent on the fact that we have to strictly take care of who the people we trust are, especially today when it seems to me that we're on some side-by-side again trying to get some kind of cowardly egg going. So, I'm responding, and since it's the end of time for the replica, considering the beginning that I've been waiting for, this wasn't a replica, but one explanation, have a little tolerance for the younger colleagues, they lack experience in relation to us being old wolves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5165	Thank you. Replica, Milenko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5166	It's absolutely nothing controversial, colleague Paunovic, I just think there are some topics... By the way, I don't mind either pride or throw, I absolutely don't have a problem with that. Parliament is such that it simply lives and when one of us talks people talk, it is nothing controversial. After all, some of our MPs talk when I speak and when you speak. It's nothing to argue with, but I just think there are some topics that need to be quiet and that I don't even know how to characterize. You know, when you get into a situation that we have to explain today to the man who teaches everyone lessons here, to you and to me, to the government, to the ministries, to the president, to his colleagues, to the citizens and to the people, to the young, so he knows what to say, then we're dealing with the fact that we can't explain it to him to be the way it is given. Only one question is asked – would Mr Majic also rule if it were his 13-year-old daughter and ten-month-old daughter, according to the verdict? Just let him tell me. Would you judge the same thing or say – well, you know, my daughter is not a Roma woman and she is not subject to the rules that I have applied in this case? So I just pray and appeal in the end, these embassies that he visits, and what these people in these tycoon media say, who have recognized in my words, and when I didn't mention it, it's him who goes to foreign embassies, that they don't give him the wind in the sails anymore, telling him how important he is, etc., because after we're with those lunatics who pump up information and praise we don't know what to do. Let him explain to him that he needs to do his job, because he seems to be the only one he listens to. Let them tell him that he should judge by law and tell him that the child is no one's child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5167	Thank you. Replica, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5168	I especially look forward to you talking about a girl who is a Roma national member today, who is also an International Roma Day, and it's good to put an accent on it and you're absolutely right, there's a feeling here when we have important topics. The team before, I think, among the first to understand, when, perhaps even more emotionally, I was reacting at one point, talking about an important subject, and without the attention I expected. I fully support everything you've said. I have a dilemma, like you, I would like to hear that answer to that question that you asked and I fear another extreme that is not impossible in Serbia, which is that sometimes we are surrounded by people who are narrowly selfish in relation to even the first line. It's the danger that threatens us as a nation to recognize what handicaps are, to recognize what basic problems are, and to recognize what is the upgrade of all the problems that happen in the human head when there's excessive ambition, when there's fear, when there's anything that doesn't have a way to realize and anything that's uncovered. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5169	Thank you. Replica, Milenko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5170	You're all right, there's only one thing you know. They used to take people with extra ambitions to certain places, so they explained that it didn't really work out. When someone thinks it's Napoleon they don't give him the army, they explain it's not Napoleon. It's being treated if it's on time. We have another problem here that speeds up and pushes it to grow, to grow, to not know what. I'm going back to what's wrong, yes, I said myself, that there's a game of fate that led us to talk today about the man who made that scandalous verdict with an even more scandalous explanation. So the argument is more controversial than the verdict itself. You can say this or that, but when you see what values it's based on, it's really a question of who's crazy here. And then you're telling us about values, what's important, what's not, who's supposed to behave, etc. So to say, it's not about what anyone thinks of themselves, but it's about those who don't understand them when they're convinced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5171	Thank you. Since there are no more registered presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, and before we move on to the list of speakers, one notice. Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. 27th and 87th centuries 2nd and 3rd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're moving on to the speaker list. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5172	Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable representative of the VSS, today we are talking about the election of the President of the VSS is a very important topic. We as the strongest Bosniak party, the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support the proposed candidate. The reasons clearly show professional competences, moral quality and credibility. What I want to point out at the beginning of my speech is that when we look at the development of human civilization, societies and empires, we will see that they evolved, grew and dominated, not how economically strong or militaryly superior they were. The empires began to collapse and collapse, society and civilization of the moment when justice would be gone, if the judges weren't judged by justice and truth, but if the cantar were wronged by some, today they would say, particular personal interests. So, the moment justice is gone, society begins to collapse. Indeed, there has been a great deal of injustice in the past and war profiters and privatisations and hunting in the murky and exploiting of the working class. One of the reasons why we support this Government of the Republic of Serbia is because the Prime Minister and Prime Minister have announced a uncompromising fight against crime and corruption. If we look at our party's agenda, our programming principles, we'll see that the fight against crime and corruption takes a high position on that list of priorities. Our party's leader, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, is a known anti-crime and corruption fighter and certainly there is no nearly assembly session that we do not speak on the subject. So what we're talking about today is very important. What I want to welcome is that commitment, resolve, but also concrete action by the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because there is no organised crime without the help of the inside, from the system. The moment those of the system are discovered, and these disclosures, the processing, begin, I expect judicial judgments. People from the prosecution, from the police, from the judiciary, when they were discovered, who supported those who robbed and abused our people's suffering, and then there will be no more organised crime, and that is something that absolutely needs to be welcomed, and what I particularly want to draw attention to is the work of internal control and when it comes to the police, but also those supervisory authorities that function within the justice system, because people who have bought diplomas cannot, who have some completed evening schools to fight crime and corruption. How the fight against crime will deal with someone who has in a criminal way acquired secondary or higher education or has acquired it in some suspicious way or has no quality education. What's very important is that we see what the biographies of those who work on these objects are like. Can't someone with 20, 30, 40 criminal charges for abuse of their position to deal with crime and corruption. So, all those who are honest, honest, who are responsible for their duties will certainly have the support of our parliamentary group and I am sure of this Parliament. But we need the state's commitment at the highest level, at the level of the government, at the level of the ministry is unquestionable, but we need to see what happens at lower levels of government. He can't tell the whole charter that a certain tycoon or that a certain criminal has his own prosecutor, has his own judge, has his own SUP chief. Our party's leader in the first address talked about the phenomenon of a certain industry, the production of furniture in Novi Pazar, and I have to deal with some other phenomena like shipping companies. It's something to pay particular attention to, because it's impossible for some companies to grow like water, that everything is going so well for them, and to see that some people are struggling hard to survive on the market. What I also want to take advantage of this opportunity, when I speak of injustice in the judiciary, I want to remind myself that members of my people in the 1990s have also been persecuted in mounted court proceedings in these trials and convicted. I'm glad we live in a democratic society today, and I really believe that it will never happen again. What is also very important is to point out the percentage representation of Bosniaks in the judiciary, in the prosecution, in the police. That's something we have to work on, that expertise must have priority, but I can't accept that argument that nobody from my people is professional and capable. So that's what we have to work on. In voting day, we will support the proposed candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5173	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5174	Thank you, Chairman. In the domestic legal order, in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the Supreme Cassation Court is the highest court and its president should be the best among the best. For the president of such an important judicial body, the High Council of Judges has proposed to Jasmine Vasovic, the Supreme Court judge. When presenting her work biography and objectives, the candidate stressed that she would advocate strict compliance with the law on trial within a reasonable period of time, since she believes that money is lost by seizing the process. It has singled out the work on uniform judicial application of the rights and equality of parties in the judicial procedure, improving the expertise of the judiciary, transparency, efficiency, as well as institutional strengthening and co-operation with other institutions. The power of the Supreme Court of Cassation is detailed in detail by the entry into force of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Court of Justice within a reasonable period of January 2016. Legal remedies which protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time shall be an objection to speed up the procedure, appeal, application for fair satisfaction. The Supreme Cassation Court decides on appeal and appeal. Also, the important activity of the Supreme Cassation Court outside the trial is in equating judicial practice among courts in Serbia. However, there is no uniform approach to implementation, authority and guidance and responsibility are very limited. Justice actors say that the main effect of the court is not its location, the number of new cases or infrastructures, but the quality of each individual, and the management capabilities of the President of the Courts are very important for success. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia supports all efforts to improve the work of judicial authorities, as each state, apart from having an efficient tax system, has an effective judiciary. This is important primarily in order to fight corruption and organised crime is effective, and the institutions of a state are strong and stable. The independent judiciary depends on the judges themselves. They must defend their independence by judging with security, with integrity, in line with Serbia's legal order. Due to the above, the principle of power-sharing is significant, and the High Council of the judiciary is an important institution that analyses the evaluations of the work of candidates and values the work programme. For this reason, I believe that it is they, that the Council has best assessed the expertise and knowledge of candidates for the Supreme Cassation Court president, so that we MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will also support the proposal of the most professional in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5175	I thank the MP Daniela Veljovic. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5176	As a lawyer, I will not question Judge Jasmina Vasovic's freedom of mind regarding the acquittal, at the very least, of controversial businessman Stanko Sudotic Canet in the cigarette smuggling process. I didn't follow this procedure specifically, so I don't want to do this, but I want to deal with a lead that goes through Stanko Subotic to the great problems we have in the judiciary, in the judiciary, in the prosecutions and in some special departments of the MUP that act not in the interest of our country and our people, but directly under the orders of NATO's pact structure in our country. When the Serbian Progressive Party is created, and I am saying with awareness that there are many patriots among your voters, there are many patriots among you here in the Assembly, but as it goes to the top of the SNS, the less capacity and readiness of people on those peaks to oppose NATO structures in our country. I am saying this because Mr. Subotic was one of the key people at a meeting in Paris when the Serbian Progressive Party was created and when we came to the situation to wonder why such a man would deal with such political destruction by the Serbian Radical Party and by making one other party. No one believes he read the political programme and came to support people, but he went there because he had a deal with French intelligence structures and other NATO structures. That's not what I'm saying, and I'm not philosophising myself, these are reports of WikiLeaks, which explain how today we have a situation where when you're fighting anti-vaxers Sulejman Ugljanin can say that masks are poisoned, that someone is fighting through masks to poison people at the time of the pandemic or, say, Dr. Radovanovic is running a campaign against Chinese vaccines, and no one is running a trial in the prosecution, they don't rush into their house in front of the kids at six o'clock in the morning, they don't bring them in a way that was humiliating for Dr. Jovana Stojkovic and a half of professors. Alec Racic. Why is it possible for some people to be prosecuted for the same crime, without any basis, and others to be protected and no one to touch them? Well, it's very simple, what the public doesn't know or don't know, Dr Jovana Stojkovic has been a prominent anti-NATO activist for more than ten years, a participant in many Serbian patriot campaigns, as well as professor. It's a shrimp. On the contrary, Suleiman Ugljanin is someone you gentlemen must not touch, and he deserves to give his answers to many prosecutorial authorities. And Mr. Radovanovic is a man who acquired protection by gaining one of the few doctors, perhaps the only one saying that NATO bombings with poor uranium did not cause cancer in Serbia. So this kind of condescending towards NATO structures and this kind of experience over Serbian patriots who suspect vaccines is about having double arches. Now, I'm a lawyer and I'm not a health care professional and I can't tell if I'm for vaccines or not for vaccines. When I need to vaccinate, I won't say no, because I trust my country. But I also know very well how to bring down tensions in society and how to create a normal atmosphere. So, not because people who have doubts about vaccines are arrested and brought before prosecutors, but by allowing them to say their doubts in the media, and then people who will explain themselves to them, both to them and to all citizens, that these doubts are not justified. So if we want to talk and stop what's called an anti-vaxer lobby, we need to talk to people, not arrest them. Now the fundamental question is, why do we have so many people who suspect vaccines? Not because there's some strong movement of anti-vaxer and lobby, we all know it doesn't have its strength, but because there's one essential, deep mistrust in the institutions of the system, and even in the crisis headquarters. Because don't forget, brothers of the Serbian Progressive Party, ten and more years ago when together, Jovana Stojkovic, you and I fought against the yellow regime, which you call the "yellow cartel", the people who are now running your crisis headquarters were in an affair of swine flu and vaccines that have not been resolved today. If you say it's a "yellow cartel", what are the names of the doctors from the crisis headquarters who were with these people at the time, while we fought against the yellow regime? When you answer that question, you will understand why people who are fighting NATO are arresting and are essentially fighting against the policy "The European Union has no alternative", which you continue to follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5177	Right on the line, Milenko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5178	First, we absolutely do not run the "European Union has no alternative", with only Serbia has no alternative, Mr Glisic. We fight for Serbia, live for Serbia, everything we can do for Serbia and take care of what is Serbia's interest. As far as the antivaccinators are concerned, so the largest antivaccine is in Serbia, the first antivaccine was Dragan Gilas, how could you not remember him? He first said he would not allow some Chinese vaccines to be vaccinated there in Serbia, so he ran our first campaign against Chinese vaccines. How could you not remember him? But not only did he campaign against Chinese vaccines, Mr. Glisic, but he also campaigned against Chinese investments in Smederevo, against Chinese investments in Bora, Chinese road construction in Serbia, he's all opposed to Dragan Gilas, but you didn't notice. As for ours, as you said, "The European Union has no alternative", so you can see for yourself who today has the support of some structures that come from the European Union, it is not certain that SNS, many other people can be praised for more serious support, especially some MEPs. As for our relationship with NATO, Mr. Glissic, it is nice and carefree to be irresponsible and to know that everything you say does not cause any consequences for the country. We must keep in mind that we are the only country in the full environment of NATO, along with Republika Srpska, but we are jealous of our military neutrality. We have co-operation with NATO, we have co-operation with the ODKB, so we're trying to preserve this neutrality. Who did we get the guns from? Where'd the MiGs come from? From NATO? So it won't be NATO giving the MiGs to the Serb army. As far as antivaccinacies are concerned, it's one thing to suspect vaccines and another to spread panic. That's two different things. One responds to arguments, and the other one has to react to the state. In the end, do not hesitate, I will reveal to you the secret, foreign services, secret organizations behind the SNS, behind the SNS party is the Serb people and therefore we have the strength we have. No foreign service, Mr. Glissic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5179	Right on line, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5180	I'm not talking about those I fought and I'm not talking about them because they're not the government. You defeated them, and I don't have a problem with you defeating them again. I'm talking about you because you're power and you have responsibility. I'm talking about you because you have a historic chance with this much mobilization power to do the right things for this country. And that's why I'm reacting. In all this when I talk about NATO, I'm not talking about how our country has defined itself to go to the NATO Pact, I'm talking about that we haven't cleaned up their structures in the depths, and we haven't cleaned them because someone's afraid to clean them up. When you talk about one suspicion of vaccines, as I suspect, but since I don't have the right to make professional statements that I haven't confirmed by my professional work, I'm ready to vaccinate. But on the other hand, is Suleiman's behavior when he says the masks were poisoned in the middle of an epidemiological crisis? Doubts of epidemiological measures or the spread of panic or everything else we talked about? Is Dr. Radovanovic, who says that Chinese vaccines are part of the experiment and that anyone who takes the Chinese vaccine actually takes responsibility on their own for how it will go, whether it is suspected of vaccines or whether it is with a very clear interest in resisting a vaccine, an antivacceral campaign? Why didn't the police break into their apartment? Why didn't she bring them in front of the kids? Why did she spare them? Well, because you, and if you don't go to NATO, respect their structures that go through Serbia, and you have 700,000 members, you have two million voters, you have no reason not to defend the interests of this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5181	Authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, Milenko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5182	The Serbian people and citizens of Serbia know very well who is in favour of his interests and there is no one on the side to tell him -- well, this is your interest, this is not your interest. They themselves know what the interest is and therefore vote for SNS and therefore support Alexander Vukic. There's no need for you to speak to the people now - they're working in the interest or not, the people know who's working, and that's why we're where we are. The historic chance we got, we're using great. Serbia today is growing economically, not stagnating, not backward. The number of employees is higher than ever. Salary growth, pensions are growing, we have the strength and financial opportunities to deal with this crisis that followed the crown better than all countries in the region, and we are better than the largest number of countries in Europe. Are we taking that chance? That you and I with 700,000 members are chasing witches on the street is not going to happen because we're responsible, not because we're scared. The easiest thing to say is, remove everything, cut everything. I ask you what the consequences are? Do you really think, first of all, that NATO structures as you imagine them, I can't even perceive them, but that it really exists if you really think that it exists so that we can just do it without leaving any consequences for the country, let's think about it. So it's not that we're afraid of anything, it's that we're taking care of the state of Serbia, and as far as vaccines and antivaccines and Sulejman Ugljanin and Radovanovic are concerned, etc., I can only invite citizens to be vaccinated. I got both the first and second vaccines, I don't have a chip, I don't turn into a reptile, I don't think the ground is a flat plate, I don't think people change shapes at night, etc. Everything else is the same, I'm just more protected from this vicious virus that is seriously attacking people and that can lead to very difficult outcomes. People need to be vaccinated, none of us are professional when it comes to aspirin, so we use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5183	Thank you, I'd like to use this message and close the circle of replicas because he really didn't mention you, he just answered. National MP, Biljana Pantic Pija.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5184	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Milojevic, fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, works only at the beginning immediately, as some headlines in the paper were today that the National Assembly was elected by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. No, we will decide to support the High Council of the Judiciary. Since they often honor the MPs of the people to interfere in the work of the Serbian judiciary, we have some great ingenuity in the area, which is really not true. What we are doing is supporting today or not supporting the decision that the High Council of the Judiciary has delivered to us as MPs where they have proposed to elect Mrs. Vasovic, as the only candidate, but one of the judges of the Supreme Cassation Court. It's the same thing that happens when we choose judges who are first elected to the judge's office, so they tell us we've had an impact on the choice of judges. Indeed, because of the judges who are elected to these functions, I want to say that this is not true, that we, like the first Justice Committee, are getting a motion for a decision, and here in the tide of simple acclaim, support such a thing. So I still don't think that the judge's office is endangering the debate of the MPs in the Assembly. As far as this decision is concerned, I will vote for Mrs. Jasmina Vasovic, first of all I have read her biography and there is nothing controversial about the biography of the same, and even if she has already been proposed by colleagues from the Supreme Cassation Court, or supported by her candidacy, I do not think we are so competent that we resent something unlike those of you, Mr. Milojevic, and that there have been some silent noises about the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Those noises that were heard were heard by those who participated in the dark age of the Serbian judiciary, in the reform of the judiciary in 2009. We don't have collective amnesia when this reform is mentioned. The reform in which they were taking part today in some respect for these elections, both for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and for judges who were elected for the first time to their office or judges who are elected to permanent judicial office, because the reform of the judiciary caused 44m euros in damages to the Republic of Serbia, 836 judges and 76 prosecutors remained in the reform without a job because the judicial reform was done in DS rooms when lists of similar and inadequate judges were made. When at the head of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Supreme Court was then appointed by Mrs. Nata Mesarovic, who was appointed by the current opposition, the independent judiciary fighters. You remember that reform too, Mr. Milojevic, very well, I think you have suffered the consequences of the same. I don't think you had an easy task when you inherited Ms. Mesarevic as the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, which is why, at the time of the President of the Vishko Council of the judiciary, because she was resolved, and as far as I know today, they didn't receive her in the Bar of Lawyers, where she filed requests as unworthy but apparently today's opposition and the tycoon media are forgetting to mention it, just putting on the cover of certain judges who are obviously similar to them or not. I would also ask the future President of the Supreme Cassation Court to apply the laws, so the Law on Judges of Article 30 says the judge cannot be a member of the political party or act politically otherwise, to deal with any public or private, paid work. These judges who come out publicly, no one can be banned from freedom of speech, but the judges who make political statements, and then bother them when someone calls them, I think it's a matter of disciplinary responsibility to run the High Council of the Judiciary and the Supreme Court of Cassation. You can't expect me to apply the principle of dissuasion, or the principle of bilaterality of proceedings, you can't expect some judges to go out in the media and attack either the MPs or the president without being able to return them. They've probably seen it from these tycoon media that think they can publish everything. Today we have this system of democracy, obviously. It's a system of democracy where anyone who calls himself independent, and I don't think he's independent, can say what they want, can say anything about who they want, but the other one can't answer because it's going to be on the cover of these tycoon media because it's the kind of democracy they're up for. As for the future president, since I believe that we will give her support today, I have high expectations of her, not pressures, that they will probably pass on, but expectations, expectations to implement their programme that she presented. I expect the uncompromising fight against corruption, to do its job with dignity, to choose, along with other members of the High Council of the judiciary, honest and decent people for judges. Also, I expect him to stick to the letters of the law and apply Article 30. The law on judges, so that disciplinary proceedings against judges who act in such a way as not to require a worthy judge to step forward. Because if the judge is going to deal with politics, then he's going to resign nicely, and then he's going into the political arena. Also, since, I have seen, the candidate participated, she was a member of the Working Party of the Law on Trial within a reasonable period of time, I hope that she will pay a little more attention to the trials within a reasonable time. Today we have overworked courts, we have trials scheduled for 2022, we have some judges who don't schedule trials for two years, it costs the state of Serbia. I also have a personal objection to the Supreme Cassation Court that should take unequivocal legal views, not as he did on a specific legal issue regarding the processing of loans, you know what I'm talking about. The Supreme Cassation Court has taken such a stand that it can be, and it doesn't necessarily mean. Because of such an attitude, which was not unequivocal, there were tens of thousands of lawsuits, which was literally buried by Serbian courts, mostly Belgrade and New Zealand, so there was a delegation, which the Supreme Cassation Court allowed, and now we have a problem in courts who do not know how to redistribute cases, how to pack these same cases, who knows where these cases will end, how long to wait for these trials to be scheduled. So, I expect the new president to take a little more care of the trials within a reasonable period, because it is in favour of the citizens of Serbia, to take unequivocal views and I expect that she, like all the other judges, and like all the other members of the High Council of the Judiciary on the dignity of the judges that we, as the National Assembly, have for the first time on that judicial post, and that, as in the Bar, we have a Code to adhere to and as everyone else has some rules, I also expect the judges to adhere to their own rules, and not to take pictures on the cover and give political views, and the court does nothing to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5185	I thank the MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. The word is made by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, National MP Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5186	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Mr. Milojevic, today we have an opportunity to discuss an important proposal relating to the election of the President of the Cassation Court. The Supreme Cassation Court is the highest judicial authority in Serbia that is in charge of equating judicial practice. The president of this court is elected on a proposal from the High Council of Justice. A single Serbia will support the proposal in the voting day. Many times, Parliamental Single Serbia has pointed out that it advocates independence, independence of the holder of judicial functions, as well as strengthening the capacity of our judiciary, because we are aware that the judicial system represents the first pillar of the rule of law. As far as the proposed candidate is concerned, we got her biography. It shows that it has passed all the levels of the courts, meaning long court practice, which points to professionalism, and it is very important that the election of the President of the Cassation Court also gives us the President of the High Court Council. This is important because of the election of judges, because just on 5 April we received a new composition of the Supreme Council of the Judges and this decision will complete the composition that will be able to continue uninterruptedly propose judges elected in this high House. For every country that claims to be democratic, it is important that it has an effective justice system that produces good indicators for other pillars of the rule of law first and foremost. Serbia is exactly the country that is seeking, on its way to the EU, whose basic values include the rule of law and respect for human rights, Serbia has regulated this area through Chapter 23 and the general conclusion of the European Commission, is that Serbia's judicial system has achieved a certain level of preparation. We know that almost all the countries that are members of the European Union have had to change their constitutions, to successfully bring an end to the EU accession process, and so does Serbia, which has the status of candidates for membership, has a constitutional reform that concerns the judiciary with the aim of strengthening judicial independence and prosecutorial independence, as one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law. This once again confirms Serbia's commitment to implementing reform processes and fulfilling its activities for the revised action plan for Chapter 23. The far-reaching effects of this process impose a timely preparation of the proposal and open to arguments based on the discussion of all relevant participants, i.e. actors in Serbia's public life. We just need to be aware that Serbia has been through comprehensive reforms over the past 10 years, in terms of the judiciary, and all in order for the new organisation of the courts to carry out all the burden of reforms and we have heard from the previous speaker how much the courts are overloaded, and as the ultimate goal is the visible reason only of the judicial system in our country. I want to take the opportunity to mention judicial infrastructure. You have in Kragujevac, the construction of the Palace of Justice has begun at some 25,000 squares, where all 11 judicial authorities will be placed, and the prosecution, over 800 employees and that is good, because in one place, given that these courts were simply scattered in Kragujevac, in one place you will have all the judicial authorities and it will be easier for the citizens and also for the perpetrators of judicial duties themselves. Also in the Kingdom is an open court for organised crime and so on in other cities, and we see that there is also an emphasis on building infrastructure, and that it is working on improving itself, opening courts throughout Serbia. In just a few sentences, I'm going to look back at 2009 and look back at December of that year when literally in two days over 1,000 judges and prosecutors, it's out of work, and without the law of the envisaged procedure, the explanation and the right to appeal, and the main choice, the criteria for selecting judges was who the party's sympathiser was, and the judges were once elected on duty, if they were zealously doing their job, there's no reason to lose their jobs, and I hope that such practice will never happen again in the future. This, unfortunately, led to a new division among the judges themselves, and unfortunately it cost Serbia, over 44m euros cost re-election of judges, a great deal of damage to society, many citizens have extended too many too long disputes and in some ways has thrown faith in an independent judiciary, and we have come from one such situation so that today in the Assembly we can talk about the shortcomings and virtues of our judicial system. When I have already mentioned the length of the court proceedings, the implementation of a national programme to reduce the number of cases left behind and the administration of the jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court, this has a positive impact on the efficiency of courts with regard to the reduction of the number of old executive cases. The definition of old cases implies cases over three years old, and I've said many times on the subject of the election of judges, I've just pointed out that it's really absurd that we have court proceedings that last 20 years, that literally, someone with an inheritance gets inherited disputes that last decades back. When we look at the statistics from 2019 and 2020, it is seen that the number of such cases decreases well. I hope in the future we don't have processes that will last for decades and forever. The amendments to the disciplinary rules and ethical codes of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are currently under way. These changes are necessary to define the illegal act, strengthen the capacity of disciplinary bodies, explain what provisions should entail disciplinary responsibility for their disrespect. In 2019, the Disciplinary Prosecutor of the High Council of the judiciary received 491 complaints against judges, mainly by citizens. This is important, because citizens can point to certain problems that in the case of judges they were not impartial, because in the extreme case, judges and judge on behalf of the people, and precisely the impartiality of the judges is reflected in relation to the judges in the court proceedings. For the judge, it is an obligation not to favor either side. He is bound to hear both sides. Unique Serbia believes that the principles of judicial impartiality and independence constitute a central basis for a democratic and modern society based on the rule of law and that judicial independence is an institutional tool for protecting human rights and freedom. There must be no abuse on any basis, because the only interest of this country should and must be equality and equality between all citizens. As a society, I think we're responsible enough and mature enough to build a country on exactly these principles. I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate all members of the Roma nation, the world day of the Roma in front of the United Serbia parliamentary group, to support them for their inclusion in society and for equality, because members of the Roma national minority are our fellow citizens. The state has done many years to improve their position and their inclusion in society, but if each of us is involved in this process, without any prejudice, I think it will be much faster and much easier to get them to feel like the equal citizens of this country. One of the important roles for building such an equal society is that of judges. A good judge is the one who has sworn to judge by law and justice, who is not subject to will, but does his job honestly and honestly. I believe today's candidate is just like that. That he would professionally do his job, respecting the rule of law, and, of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to justify the trust of the High Council of the judiciary and our trust, as MPs. I hope that in the voting day they will be voted. As I said, JS will support the Supreme Judicial Council's proposal to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5187	I would like to thank the vice president of the National Assembly. The word has a People's Messenger, Deep King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5188	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr Milojevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as colleagues who spoke before me have already said, we are today deciding on an extremely important personnel issue, the question of who will be headed by the highest court in the Republic of Serbia. It is important, as is important to the Supreme Cassation Court itself, because we are talking here about the third-degree court, which is responsible for deciding on extraordinary legal remedies that are often the last chance to correct, possible, failures, shortcomings and mistakes made in the judgments brought by the low-level courts. The decisions taken by the Supreme Cassation Court by the team are not only important because they most often have a point in solving individual cases, but because the views taken by the Supreme Cassation Court in those decisions are of exceptional importance, important in all subsequent proceedings brought before the lower courts on the same legal issue. In these cases, basic or higher courts, depending on who is in charge, generally act under these attitudes. Legal issues already discussed by the Supreme Cassation Court may already be considered as pre-determined, largely relativeising the fact that in our legal system, judicial practice is not a source of law. Lawyers from the party are very often in their claims to the court calling for decisions and legal understanding of the Supreme Cassation Court. In this way, they provide themselves with an additional argument. This respect for the decisions of the Supreme Cassation Court by the lower level courts is likely due to the fact that the assessment of the quality of the work of the judges is measured through the prism of the number of decisions that have been abolished or modified. As a result, the judges most often adhere to the views and interpretations of the laws that have already been adopted, which I do not think is bad, but rather, I think that uniform court practice is the most important task and the most important jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court, because before the law all must be equal. All girls of this world must be equal before the law, and we must try to be equal in Serbia, that is the right of our citizens. Let's talk about these items that have been most common lately, and why conflicting decisions arise. I mean these proceedings against banks for the cost of processing credits. Here's an example of the Novi Sad Court, where half of the judges are known to accept these lawsuits, and half of them reject them, although of course, I respect free judicial convictions, I don't think that's a good thing. You know exactly which judge decides which way, and then lawyers often when they press charges if they get a judge who doesn't suit them, then they pull it back, so they re-apply to make the adoption judgment. I don't think that's good. As a result, the Supreme Court’s position and its role in equating case-law are extremely important in this regard. I therefore find it extremely important that the Supreme Cassation Court adopts clear and unequivocal views whenever a question of law arises, especially when it comes to issues that are so interested in citizens as is the case in these disputes against banks. I must say that as a man, as a MP, as a socialist, as someone who follows the policy of the president of the SPS, Ivica Dacic, I am always on the side of a man, on the side of a war veteran, on the side of citizens who have been in agony for years because of credit indexed in Switzerland, because of all those who are considered discriminated against, deceived, and in any other way damaged. For these people, we have to fight and the Socialists will always do it. But, on the other hand, as a lawyer, I understand that judges should not be handled in making decisions so that their decisions are generally accepted and liked. I'm right here in this place, in one of the previous sessions and I said that judges shouldn't even be harder to be loved, popular and popular in the people, but only to be respected. This will happen if they always, in any case, courageously stand by the law, and their judgments will always be unsatisfactory. In this regard, it is also the essence of the dispute, that there is a conflict of interest and that is the weight of the judicial function. It is important that the Supreme Cassation Court, in the future, and in the mandate of the new president, even more zealously fulfils its obligation to balance court practice and takes views on current legal issues, because unequal practice and unequal decision-making can call into question a fair trial, can bring parties in exactly the same legal situation, in an unequal situation, causing legal uncertainty, disrupting the reputation of the judiciary. At the very end of the line, one serious state must allow to know what can be expected, what can be answered and what can be obtained. And we have to stick to that, if we want to carry an epithet of the rule of law, and the courts in its construction play the most important role. Let me also say one practical thing that is very useful and commendable in the context of unifying court practice, which is that all decisions, attitudes and legal perceptions of the Supreme Cassation Court are very easily available to all through its website, which is very easily searched and I think that it is useful for both parties and their attorneys, i.e. defenders who thus obtain additional arguments, but can also assess the chances of success in some dispute. Since I have already mentioned mass lawsuits, I will also comment on the issue of court overload, which they make a significant contribution to. Here's an example of one of my friends who works at a law firm. He was assigned to write 500 almost identical lawsuits, believe it or not. Whenever we call him and ask him what he's doing, he says, "I'm writing credit claims." And really, the courts are overloaded. I read the information that the judges of the Third Basic Court have been working each and every 2,500 cases, and that every month they arrive, I'm talking about each judge individually, another 250 cases. That is why I believe that a useful solution to the Supreme Cassation Court is that part of these cases, according to the criteria of the place of the prosecutor's residence, is delegated to courts in smaller places, courts in the interior, above all, and because it makes it easier to press charges, means that it is in the interests of the citizens, and also because it will lead to the discharge of the most burdensome courts. In smaller places, the judges have fewer cases in their work, but I certainly doubt they'll like this solution. The Supreme Cassation Court adopted a new programme for solving old cases, namely the goal of the new programme, is to reduce the total number of old cases by about a third. A whole series of concrete measures have been envisaged to contribute to this. I'm not going to list them now, but I certainly think it's important to increase the number of judges, and that's why I'm glad that in this assembly we have a choice of new judges on the agenda very often. Here, it'll be on the agenda next week, Tuesday, and I'm looking forward to it. I saw in the report for the previous period that the number of pending cases in executive proceedings has been significantly reduced, and it is clear to me that the very meaning of execution is very unpleasant, but the execution must be effective, whoever implemented it, because creditors are not just utility companies, not only evil banks, not only greedy lenders, creditors are also children who seek alimony, they are trusted by women who are fighting for their share in the property after the divorce, they are trusted by workers who have not been paid their profits and for them, and because of them we have to fight to make forced payment of claims effective. I could do this by tomorrow, but let's see who's going to be the new President of the Supreme Cassation Court, where citizens' views have been so often pointed out lately. I would like to remind you that at the same time, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is also the President of the High Council of the judiciary, a body that has a huge importance and an important role to play in improving the judiciary. As colleagues have already said, Jasmina Vasovic, the current Supreme Cassation Court judge, who received unanimous support at the general session of the Supreme Cassation Court, was proposed. The High Council of the judiciary has found that it meets all the criteria and all the criteria required for choosing this function and we believe that it has been done in an adequate manner. What I want to say about the proposed candidate is that I am extremely happy about women, because women are the majority in the judiciary. That's what we talked about here. I think that once I have commented, when the new judges were elected, it seems to me to be a court in Kragujevac or the King, that justice will be in women's hands in that city, because all the proposed candidates were women. But women are less likely to be in executive positions. It's like that in all areas, even in the judiciary. For example, women are more often deputy public prosecutors, and less often are public prosecutors. They're less of a court president, they're less of a department head. We heard Mr. Phil talking about how there were only two judges in the courts at his time, and now we're going to have a woman at the head of the Supreme Cassation Court. For reasons of female solidarity, I want to say hello, in the hope that in the near future it will no longer be an interesting thing to point out, but something quite ordinary. I want to say that I read in the media, it was particularly emphasized, that it was one of the youngest judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, and somewhere it seemed to me like it was listed in a negative context. I would now be silent of my sincere opinion if I didn't say that this is an extremely flattering thing to me and that I feel that new faces should be given a chance to really introduce some good changes in our judiciary, but I must stress that such a claim is groundless, for the reason it is a judge who has 23 years of working experience. Mr. Milojevic is here and he's read her biography and there's really nothing to blame. The Socialist Party of Serbia will support its choice, because we believe it is a woman who is aware of all problems in the Serbian judiciary and, of course, we expect strong efforts to resolve them. It has itself highlighted the problem of the length of court proceedings and we are joining the emphasis on the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, as one of the priorities. What should also end within a reasonable period is this outbreak of the coronary virus, and therefore, for the very end of my exposure, I want to invite citizens to contribute to that goal and to be vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5189	I thank the People's Messenger, Deep King. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5190	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, today we are choosing the president of the VCC and I must say that in my term last term, it seemed to me that the president was pleased to announce the verdict of the Gjilan Group of the Court of Appeal as illegal. Therefore, it is the verdict by the Court of Appeal on two occasions, which decided that 80 victims and 24 missing citizens of Serbia, residents of KIM of non-Albanian nationality, are not worth living, or are not worthy of punishing criminals who have taken their lives by taking their souls lightly. We live in a time where you have a lack of opposition, political action. We're aware of that. Opposition politicians don't get weak. They're so weak that every attempt to weaken them is impossible. But miraculously, in this lack of action or the desire to act seriously, journalists who become parapolitics appear, journalists associations that become parapolitical associations, and judges have entered that kind of association. This is called CEPRIS, right? I'd like to know who's funding the organization, according to me, a parapolitical organization run by Miodrag Majic. His verdict was declared illegal by the Supreme Court of Cassation. His verdict was declared illegal by the Supreme Court of Cassation, at the request of the prosecution for the protection of legality. But, behold, the VSS didn't find that there was a violation of the law by the judge, I think Hadji Omerovic was there. The man gave the interview. We policy makers know that photojournalists are taking pictures, and it's not controversial, but this is not a judicial informant. I would understand that there is an informer, that judges are informed about, about judgments, how to make mistakes, about some kind of proposition in the judiciary, that they consult each other, etc., but I'm afraid it's not about that. It's a classic political interview. Now I ask myself, and I ask Mr. Martinovic, who is better understood in law than I am, can the judge, without the approval of the court's elder, perform in the media, and in particular give political interviews in the magazines of political content that are on several sides, and that in this interview are mostly political qualifications? He does not talk about how he sinned by liberating the Gjilan Group, according to which the judge is not responsible for the verdict he makes, or even for the one declared illegal. You have a CEPRIS, an NGO that brings together judges. But I've heard that there are often judges and lawyers and prosecutors in that organization who judge the same case. Now it's not clear to me if, in this association, there can be a conflict of interest, a conflict of interest that is often being passed on to us. We're not trying to judge, but we have the right to comment. Judicial independence is not divine, judges must be dependent on the law, and we may have the right to comment on whether the laws passed in the Assembly are properly implemented. It's the court that needs to pass judgment under the law, not just on the basis of free jurisprudences, like these football judges, so a penalty can play hand and when the ball goes to the ground, and the judges then sentence these football judges, with the right to violate their jurisdiction. Ladies and gentlemen, let's ask ourselves, where does our judicial ship sail and on this matter. I found, among other things, a new demonstration of haughtiness in the congregation at CEPRIS. So, it's being led by Judge Majic, my smallness, on the charges that I, I don't know, am shutting down "N1", "New S", etc. The criticism of why I have proposed law, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in that site or whatever it is, says - MPs outside their authority, so in the Cvian case, politicians shouldn't convince the people, so on the Administrative Committee, then a new demonstration of haughtiness in the Assembly, it's because of this bill, because the MP dared to propose a law. It's one of our powers, constitutional and legal powers. Now comes a gathering of judges who have entered a parapolitical organization. I can't interpret anything else if I find this on their website. So he says -- archaic despotia of Serbia. If these aren't political matters, if the judges haven't taken over the work of politicians, especially these opposition ones, how they're going to vote and what their beliefs are I'm not getting into, but these are public appearances. I don't know if they have the right to organize the CEPRIS Center in this way, etc., in particular to have lawyers, prosecutors and judges, and even from the same cases, then you can think how much this can affect the verdict and whether we can get some other convictions where we won't be punished, but innocent, where innocent people should be protected at the end of the day. Guys, they're in our business. I keep telling you that, but now I've tried to review their website and I've read, these are among the first hangs, there's probably more of these political qualifications and their performances. This isn't about justice, this is about the Parliament, this is about us. I don't mind if they vote however they want, exploiting their right to vote in any way, but they have accepted opposition work. What's left of us, if they're dealing with politics, what do we need to take now? We take their courtrooms and start making judgments. If they can speak of politics, interpret political decisions, arbitration in the Assembly, so the Code of People's MPs, too, I don't understand why so many justices are involved in something that is the domestic matter of this Parliament, or in a certain way the MPs can receive some penalties that are not judicial in nature. So it's not about judicial punishment, but here you see, it can be -- politicians shouldn't convince the people. So what are we supposed to do, if we can't convince the people, then what are we serving for? I don't think the judges should convince politicians how they should lead politics, so it is said, Judge Majic said he didn't see that some representative was in front of the court. I've been a few times. Mr. Martinovic was several times, but I did not see Judge Majic in court for an illegal decision. I am, on a variety of grounds, even though I am protected by the Constitution, invited to the First Basic Court to judge me for the words spoken by the speaker, although the Constitution, Article 103, says - a MP cannot be called to criminal and second responsibility for an opinion expressed when performing his post. I've been called several times, which is illegal, unconstitutional, but the judge who did it in no way responded. If they start political debates, we're not going to go to trial. It doesn't occur to us. Everyone should stick to their powers. Then there is some authority. The government is different, the division of power is in three parts. Judge Majic forgot. He says, "The government will do that too." Yeah, but he's the government, he's the third branch of power. And these associations, as they're called, NGOs, they add up to the fourth branch of government. Looks like he stepped into two branches of power. This one, as they call it, is a nonprofit, and as they call it, the fourth branch of power, and the third one is a court and he's a government. But he only thinks under his authority that we should criticise the one that is legislative and that is enforceable. Now we need to decide how to allow, without control, someone who has political aspirations, probably also political functions, under a judicial cabinet, to run politics, to establish a political organisation, to make no difference between his organisation and, say, Sasa Radulovic. Both use the citizens' association as a basis for political work. I hope the future president of the VCC will do anything to ensure that these phenomena are not at least in the Supreme Court. I appreciate that the Supreme Court passed an illegal verdict brought by Hadzhi Omerovic and Majic, for the reason that the verdict would have remained, because it interpreted that Albanian crimes were not treated as war crimes, because they were done to God after the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement. And the Supreme Cassation Court rightly indicated that it was not true and that the verdict was illegal. If that had not been done, it would have been a groundless court that is now judging Albanians, it would have been questioned, as the Serbian side claims that the verdict could not be charged with war crimes committed after July 1999. And to remind you, the KLA committed most of these crimes after NATO troops entered behind their backs, after June 1999 and thousands of non-Albanians were executed, and many were taken out by authorities for sale on the black market. Unless someone wants to punish it, it does not wish well for Serbs only, the future does not wish well for any citizen of any nationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5191	The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5192	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Mr Milojevic, at the very beginning, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate all members of the Roma population in front of the SPS parliamentary group on the holiday – World Roma Day. Many topics have been launched today and I believe that each topic has some importance and importance and I will try to look back, among other things, on everything that has been said, and I will start with what is the point of the agenda. So today on the agenda we have a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Judge Jasmina Vasovic was proposed for the election of the president. According to the Constitution and the Law on Judges, the president of the Supreme Cassation Court among the judges of the court, on a proposal from the High Council of the judiciary, is elected by the National Assembly for a period of five years, without the right to re-election. The President of the Supreme Cassation Court may suspend the term of office before the time on which he was elected at a personal request, by suspending the court's office, or by dismissing the law of the prescribed reasons for the court's resolution. The president of the Supreme Cassation Court, the country's highest court, is also acting as the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, so all of this is very clear and precise. The importance of this function is clear, which is witnessed by the degree of great responsibility, and for this reason it is very important that a candidate of high quality and competence, quality education and, above all, moral integrity come into office. In her programme for improving the work of courts, proposed candidate Jasmina Vasovic highlighted five basic goals that will be pursued during her term. These are: dedicated work to ensure the uniform judicial application of the rights and equality of parties in judicial proceedings, improving the expertise of the judiciary, improving transparency, availability of justice, improving the efficiency of the judiciary, institutional strengthening of the court and co-operation with other institutions. As for the objectives set, which are defined, they are fully justified for us, fully acceptable and parliamentary group will, of course, support the proposed candidate in the voting day. Now, a few words about what has been said today, and also important and important issues. Mr. Risticevic spoke of one of the judges who, I had little time to look here from my colleagues, as I would call it, is not a statement, it is more an interview in one of the weekly papers, where he says: "A new demonstration of haughtiness in the Assembly". It is very interesting that Mr Majic spoke about this arrogance in the Assembly today, and he did not speak when the election for MPs was over. You remember the night in the Republic Election Commission, one, another photograph, third photograph. This probably does not represent haughtiness, the way the opposition acted then does not represent haughtiness, or it was not the time to talk about it then. Then we go to the next, the way the opposition behaved in the tide, it was probably not a good time to talk about haughtiness in the National Assembly. Well then, the introduction of stone for the first time into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this is not boastfulness, this is the normal behaviour of an MP representing Serbian citizens in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Risticevic even established the origin of this stone, which allegedly came from Kosovo, and Mr. Risticevic determined the origin of where this stone came from. So the way in which MPs, beware, MPs with the Serbian flag, by breaking trying to reach the National Assembly, this is not boastful, and this should not have been addressed, probably not even the judiciary to react, and Mr Majic was probably supposed to be silent about this. But here's the moment and a convenient political moment for me to talk about all this. Now, it's a very interesting question why right now and why right now. There are probably politicalaffinities, there are political goals, there are political reasons. If we look at it and we look at it and analyze how the representatives of individual opposition parliamentary groups have acted here in parliament, we've mostly talked about it, but let's start from what is the basis, what is the essence, how they've ever been in parliament. The election was over. They did not have enough votes to have their representatives in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then the entire opposition, the whole opposition, call the opposition elite round them and invite their voters to vote in favour of the list. Who could have gathered this opposition in Serbia? So just one factor, be so correct and let them say who brought them together, thanks to whom they were all here together, and thanks to whose invitation they had their representatives at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They were mentioned in the 1990s. As for the '90s, we've said it more than once - from the past, and you don't live from the past. The lessons we need to learn from the past, to affirm what is good, but what we want is to build together with coalition partners and realize the goals and key problems of the present and build the foundations of a new future. We can't have the past as present, and we can't let the past be our only future. I would like to remind myself that this parliament, I have spoken of this several times, adopted the Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of the crime in Srebrenica. I'll tell you why I'm talking about this. By passing this, he also carried out a moral and international commitment, so he condemned the crimes in Srebrenica, expressed his condolences to the victims' families, and we believe that this made us contribute to restoring trust in the former Yugoslavia's space. Serbia, in fact, shows its determination that such crimes that took place on the sides of conflicts never happen again, because our main goal, Serbia's main goal today, is also the entire environment of peace and stability in the region. So Serbia wants to lead a policy of peace, good neighbourly relations, economic prosperity and co-operation. The declaration, as it was said among other things, insisted that crimes are individual, not national and determines the determination that those who committed crimes should respond, not to the people but to the individuals. The condemnation of crime can only create real grounds for restoring trust. From a moral, from a political, from a national, state-of-the-art point of view, that's very important in our opinion. We expected that representatives of parliaments and other regions would make some move towards reconciliation and bring similar resolutions, but they did not. This resolution is not seen as an isolated political document, but as a document complemented by a resolution that will condemn all crimes. I don't know if you've had a chance to see it, but I have to mention it today, especially today, especially today when it's International or World Roma Day. The German ambassador, speaking of the past, made a statement that the 1999 bombing of Yugoslavia is a controversial issue, but that a reaction was needed because humanitarian disaster and genocide were to be prevented in Kosovo. To say the least, this statement is shameful, this statement is hypocritical. Serbia was bombed, Yugoslavia was actually bombed first in 1941 and 1999, and it was a crime, SR Yugoslavia was attacked for refusing to sign its disappearance in Rambuje and for relations with the Albanian minority. When an ambassador to a large state in Serbia speaks of genocide and when it mentions Kosovo, it should never forget the 230,000 Serbs who have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. Then we have every right to ask Mr. Ambassador a question, how is he not ashamed? We don't need an apology, an apology to those who can't return to their hearth today. Let him make an apology for every tear shed by every child who had to leave his home and leave the space of Kosovo and Metohija. It is clear to us, this is the continuation of a campaign by certain Western countries to declare the Serb people genocide. I've seen Mr. Bakarec react, and I'll agree with him, that this explanation is similar to that of the 1941 bombing of Belgrade, given by Adolf Hitler and Alexander Ler. Shameful and what we expect, at least at the moment the ambassador of a large EU country can do, is to make an apology. Now, as far as the judiciary is concerned, a few things related to the report, first of all, to the European Commission and to the subject of the judiciary. So, we should not talk again about Serbia's determination and determination to become a full member of the EU, we have also confirmed in parliament, with this determination and path that goes, when it comes to European integration, does and works for the government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia has committed in its EU accession process to implement important constitutional reforms aimed at strengthening the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, but also at responsibilities of judicial holders. The reform of the judiciary in order to strengthen its independence and efficiency is a priority in the work of the National Assembly and the Government. The government has drafted a proposal for constitutional reforms sent to the National Assembly's competent committee. The rule of law is and must remain one of the key objectives in addition to depoliticalising the judiciary and strengthening its independence in accession negotiations. However, these objectives should not be linked exclusively to the EU accession process, these are fundamentally postulates of a legal, regulated state, as Serbia today is. When the European Commission is talking about the rule of law then it should also be asked to refer to the Brussels Agreement, whether the rule of law is that Serbia respected everything defined by the Brussels Agreement, and Pristina could not respect one thing in seven years, which is the formation of a community of Serb municipalities. Is that the rule of law? It is not a slap on Serbia, it is a slap on Brussels and the EU, as the whole negotiation process is currently under the auspices of Brussels and the EU. European parliamentarians are even worse in their findings, they are even more shameful and hypocritical than the European Parliament's report. The European Parliament's report, which will discuss the committee chaired by the president, Mrs Elvira Kovac, says among other things – there is serious concern about the scale of continued political influence on the judiciary and the need for stronger protection of the responsibility of professionalism, independence, the overall efficiency of the judiciary. Also, the European Commission is urging Serbia to resolve affairs such as Krusik, Jovanica, Telekom Srbija, as well as to improve the results of investigations into the situation in the indictment and to give judgments in cases of high-level corruption. The state has resolved the affair of Jovanica, as far as we know. When it comes to how they say about other affairs, how much we know the actions are under way. In this way, the European Parliamentarians are doing only one thing, which is to put pressure on the independence of Serbia's judiciary. So don't do it to us, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, don't honor us. That's what you do, with these findings. When you're talking about factory affairs, how you don't remember the Mauricios, and Hong Kong and many other affairs, or at this point you don't, because you actually have a different goal. One argument, whether Aleksandar Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia, or whether Alexander Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia, was sentenced in January this year to pay two hundred thousand dinars once to call the opposition leader for an insult allegedly caused by the same call the leader suffered mental pain. Well, it's a parekselance that politicians and media are wrong to claim that the Serbian judiciary is not independent and managed by it from political circles. So this should be kept in mind when talking about the independence of the Serbian judiciary. I will remind you, therefore, when they say there is no political will in Serbia to deal with crime and corruption. No, it's not true. Both the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I repeat by who knows which way, by works, and not by words, they lead one decisive, not selective, organised and continuous fight against crime and corruption. That there was a serious blow to organized crime and that it wouldn't stop at that. That the competent authorities and competent institutions will continue to do their job and will have the support of parliament in full. So we have one synergy, practical action and legislative activity. This synergy results. As for the government, the president and us in the Assembly, zero tolerance when it comes to corruption. So zeroth degree of tolerance when it comes to corruption. We are in parliament again, again for who knows which time, adopted the Law on the Origin of Assets. No one criticized that law except those who had the right reason for it. The president said first, I'm ready to be the first subject to check. We said in parliament, we're ready to be subject to verification. Those who had reason to be afraid, and now let's see what the reason is, have all along said that this law is actually a place to deal with political insolents. No, it's not. No selective targets. The law is the same for all and no one is above the law, he was in power, he was a representative of the government or was a representative of the opposition. But no one is stronger above the law and no one is and will not be stronger than the state. I guess it's pretty clear to everyone today. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia will certainly have the full support of the SPS parliamentary group. I know the time is up and I thank you for your tolerance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5193	Thank you. Your group's time has been spent. Mr. Bakarec, he didn't mention you in a negative context, I'd certainly give you a break for lunch, if that's okay with you. He did mention you, but not in a negative context. All right, all right, two minutes, straight to replica, Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5194	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear MPs, I'll be brief. I just wanted to give this parallel a heads-up. Has anyone in Serbia ever swept up and lived on German victims, bombings by the United States and Great Britain, which occurred during World War II, when Berlin, Bremen, Hamburg, Munich and many other cities were bombed? Have we ever done that? We didn't. How would Ambassador Shib feel if anyone were living here above that question? To end with this, in this reaction mentioned by the esteemed Mr. Milicevic, I just asked this – is the only difference between Mr. Šib and these two mentioned by Mr. Milicevic in that he does not have a mustache and hair? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5195	Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5196	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5197	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Milojevic, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as my esteemed colleagues said during today's debate, today we will discuss today's proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. The choice of President of the Supreme Cassation Court is on the one hand an honor for all of us who are in parliament, because we are talking about an institution that was founded in 1846, while on the other hand it is a great obligation, because today we are choosing a candidate who will be the first among the equal in the areas of justice in the next five years. The Supreme Cassation Court is the highest court in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and as such it has passed through various historical and time periods and I do believe that its reputation has not remained corrupt to this day and that it is primarily aimed at the exercise of rights and justice in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The Supreme Court of Cassation was established by a new network of 2010 courts, and even he was not spared the consequences of judicial reform, which left many consequences behind. When we talk about the proposed decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, I am extremely pleased that today we can discuss and discuss a candidate who will indeed be the first among the equal in the next five years. To this extremely responsible and important function and by the High Council of the judiciary is proposed Judge of the Supreme Cassation Court, Mrs Jasmina Vasovic. Mrs. Vasovic also submitted a programme to improve the work of courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to the Supreme Court of Cassation. The programme, which was assessed by the VSS by the highest assessment, i.e. the five main but not the only objectives that the candidate will pursue during his five-year term, which are the achievement of a single case-law, then the equality of parties to courts, the improvement of expertise and transparency, the strengthening of the institution of courts, as well as co-operation with other institutions. When we read the biography of Judge Vasovic, we can see that she really has a rich experience behind her which she gained by performing the function of Judge of the Municipal, Higher, Appealal and Supreme Cassation Court. What I would like to point out is that during her career, Judge Vasovic acted in criminal matters and acted as a judge of the Court of Appeal at the Council for Organized Crime, making decisions on the most sensitive cases. So I would like to tell Judge Vasovic from this place that being President of the Supreme Cassation Court is an honor, responsibility and obligation that will not follow you only during the five-year term, but throughout the career. It is you who will be the bearer of the most judicial functions in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and I hope by your knowledge and experience that you will improve the work of the judiciary in achieving the law of the prescribed objectives, and that you will influence with your experience that our judiciary remains objective and independent, as is the case today. The President of the Supreme Cassation Court is acting president of the High Council, and one of the powers of the VSS is to elect the holders of judicial functions. This function was followed by various controversys, including judicial reform, after which 1,000 judicial officials remained on the street. I would really like to ask all the leaders of today's judiciary not to ever again allow a reform of the judiciary that has led to tectonic disorders and the consequences that we are trying to resolve today. We are trying to fix everything that was done by those who didn't want good to the Serbian judiciary, who didn't want good to the Serbian citizens and who didn't want good to Serbia, they only wanted to do well with those parts and those people who were close to them and those parts of the judiciary who didn't want to stand up for their madness called judicial reform. At the head of the Supreme Cassation Court and in 2009, when the reform was well-prepared was Nata Mesarovic, who at that time was the first but not among the equal and who wanted to implement a complete reform of the judiciary. The then Justice Ministry, led by Snezana Malovic of the DS, has called an ad for the general selection of judges for newly formed basics, higher, appeals, including the Supreme Cassation Court. The ad is called even though the Law on Judges provides for the continuity of the judge's office, which predicts that the judge's office lasts from the first election to the completion of the working century. The continuity of the judge's office also stipulates that no judge, no court, can be resolved because of its opinion or because of its decision on its own free will, but solely by its own will and by the law of the prescribed conditions. Also, the continuity of the judge's office, and you too, Mr. Milojevic, know very well that it includes the immobilization of judges, or that judges of any court cannot be transferred to another court without their express consent. Even Monteskje, one of the creators of the division of power, stated that if we want a legal, proper state, we must have separate executive powers from the legislative and judicial powers. In 2010, we have the most flagrant violation of the division of power and the clear influence of the executive body in selecting the holders of judicial functions and because at that point it was necessary. It was necessary because judges could not respond to the political and personal interests of the then democratic party. We must say, too, that in 2012, the Constitutional Court said that the reform was unconstitutional. I must remind you that any reform to be implemented, and even the reform of the judiciary was the comprehensive one, whether it is detailed, whether it is fundamental, cannot be constitutional if any basic principle of a subpoena has been violated. That's what the Constitutional Court said in 2012. In 2012, the Constitutional Court said that the reform is unconstitutional in the way European institutions have spoken to us, and the Venice Commission. After the reform, 1,000 judicial officials remained on the street. You know why it's left on the street? They stayed on the street because they did not want to replace their knowledge with the Democratic Party membership card and did not want to replace their honour for the praise of the Democratic Party's city committees at the time. They wanted to do their job exclusively in accordance with the law. They wanted to do their job the same way they took the oath in the National Assembly. Then in 2010, an unequal fight of 850 Justice Dealers begins with a system which has already been decided in advance, and that decision has been made, and you know it too, Mr Milojevic, in the decisions of the First Council, that judges and prosecutors are unworthy. There is no termologically malignier word for those people who at that time have opposed the Democratic Party's non-democratic principles. There is no worse word for their families, for their spouses to tell someone that he was unworthy, and that he had acted in criminal, civil, administrative matters a year earlier and made legal decisions. The only basic criterion of the then judges in judicial reform was because then members of the High Council used data, incorrect data on their impact and their results. And that was their only argument. Because in this procedure they used themselves I can freely say forged documents. And the evidence is that several judges filed dozens of criminal charges against Ms. Malovic, Mesarevic and the first members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I must also say that their only argument also in this judicial reform is to open the archives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and that the judges who came to the discussions in the second session of the High Council of Justice are to be given these documents for consideration. They didn't want it either. The proof that the judicial reform was carried out in the first place is anything that people who were then known to the judiciary went to Boris Tadic's wedding and told him what was going on in the judicial process. Telling him what people are doing in judicial reform. Speaking to him whose relatives are elected to the judicial functions whose members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, he did not react to that, he remained inferior. You know why he stayed inferior? Because he put people at the top of the Serbian judiciary by his own consciousness and they were the executioners of the Serbian proud judiciary. Why do I say Serbian proud justice? Because in 2021, then in 2011, believe me, there are honest judges, there are security judges who make judgments based on their knowledge and experience. They did not want to replace their judicial functions with the praises of the city and the municipal board. It was their only criterion. And the criteria used against them were falsified reports, reports by the Democratic Party's city committees saying they were good, whether they were beautiful, whether they were making decisions in favour of the Democratic Party. Another worst argument was that if the judge was at some point married to a judicial officer, you had to reach a verdict on the divorce. And that is why I would like to ask from this place the question of both Mesarevićka and Malovićka and all the members of the High Council of the judiciary – people, did you at that time feel unworthy to perform these functions? Did you ask how those 850 judges and their families feel? That's not what you were wondering. No, you were just wondering on Crown Street how you'd get the praises of the Democratic Party's summit at the time? Who in the Crown Street then changed the lists of the High Court Council? Who then scratched the markers that the judges can't go to next election? And then did you know what you did, you changed the entire composition of the first High Council of the judiciary, and you brought people to the second High Council so that they could hold talks with those 850 judges so they could say, yes, we may not have made a mistake, but at that time you will be returned to your posts, and when will they be returned in 2012? And the Constitutional Court made a decision in 2012, but then those same reformers said - that you had SNS membership cards. Here's 10 years later, the judge didn't take out a SNS membership card, and I didn't make a mistake because individuals had Democratic Party membership cards, and most of them in the judiciary know that. Fortunately, the citizens of 2012, knowing what you were doing in the judiciary, knowing what you were doing in the economy, knowing what you were doing in health care, gave you a red card, never to return to power again. They gave you a red card because you looked at the judiciary as your own nahi, and you looked at the judges as state officials who must be led under your political and personal interests. You know what happened? Judges as one serious and responsible system told you at that time that their integrity is most important and that they are not the ground for winning cheap political points. And instead of taking political points, you lost those political points and left power in 2012. You believe me, because of these judges, because of these families, I hope that in the next election we will all vote that you will never return to power again. We must never again allow a judge, Mesarevic, to tell us that judges must make judgments. He will recall that Judge Mesarevic said in a criminal procedure when she was given the verdict that she had received the verdict at that time, I am apostrophe that she had received the verdict and wanted to read the verdict. That's not what judges do today. The judges today are part of an independent objective and seemingly fair system. Today, judges are not afraid of being transferred to another court or subject to a new re-election. Today, judges do not go to the courtrooms to read the headlines of the daily press, so by reading between the ranks to see how the then political summit from Andric's wedding wants to decide in some case. This is not happening today, because the judges are now completely separate from the executive and legislative authorities. So I also want to tell you that to tell all citizens, we must never again allow this group of people to reform our judiciary, our health, our economy and other segments of life. We must have a strong judiciary at all times, and citizens should trust our institutions. Because unless we have a strong judiciary, we do not have a state, and if citizens do not trust its institutions, we return Serbia to 2012 when Serbia was ruled by those who did not want modern and strong Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5198	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5199	I thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Mr Milojevic, dear fellow MPs, I agree that an independent, professional and effective judiciary is necessary for the rule of law and the protection of human rights in the country. Citizens are interested in seeing that there is a system of appointment, promotion, accountability and transfer of judges and prosecutors based on objective criteria. The prosecution is absolutely independent, even so much that they work on their own and selectively. Many times, we MPs pointed out the need for rapid response. We have come to the situation that our head of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandar Martinovic and deputy head of the Sandra Christmas parliamentary group strike hunger to draw the prosecution's attention to a huge problem and react, i.e. Just to do their job. So much for independence. It is their task that as soon as something appears in public, they examine it and determine whether it has a basis for further proceedings. Such a system is a key step in ensuring the independence of the judiciary and the prosecution, because inaction is not the same as independence, and the act should exclusively be in line with the oath that is also the positions, which otherwise begins: "I swear by my honor to perform my function faithfully to the Constitution and to the law." In 2009, the democratic power resolved 837 judges and over 200 prosecutors in the sloppy procedure of the general re-election of judicial officials. The Constitutional Court quite justifiably annulled these decisions as unconstitutional in 2012. The epilogue is the millions in damages paid by the state of Serbia to these same judges, as they were unlawfully removed. No one suffered the consequences, neither then Minister Malovic nor others who participated in this. This cost the state of Serbia 44m euros. The consequences of that and now we feel it. Perhaps even among the disfellowshipped judges was unprofessional and unworthy, and there may have been among those who were re-elected as such. There is no doubt that this process was a historic mistake that everyone in the judicial system will remember. The Ministry of Justice called on the judges to give suggestions on amendments and additions to the Law on Prosecution and the judge's society indicated that there are four basic problems in the judiciary, insufficient, institutional and real independence of the judiciary. Then there is a lack of training of judges, under three, an uneven burden on judges and courts and an unconformed legal framework. The Society of Judges has just said that citizens' trust in judges and courts will be significantly improved when conditions are created for full independence of judges and courts, for their better training and their evener burden, and the laws are more high-quality and harmonised. I wouldn't agree if the judges weren't independent these days. There are honest and quality judges, but there are also those who interpret law only in their own way, just hiding behind that they are independent. Dear Mr. Milojevic, here, for example, listen to a concrete example, and it speaks of the lack of agreement of the judiciary, where we see the law being interpreted, and it should not be interpreted, it should be applied. How else do you explain the case that the judge of the Court of Justice does not react to irregularities in the procedure and misread the law on the full two A4 pages to which the Court of Appeal pointed. At the violation of the interpretation of the right by the judge of the Court of Justice and of the error in the conduct of the proceedings, in the retrial of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of First Instance, the Court of Justice finds it entirely the same as the first time, without respecting any argument of the Court of Appeal. In a return to the Court of Appeal, but the case now takes over by a second major judge, there is no objection to the verdict, nor commenting on the deafening of the actions cited by colleagues last time, but confirmed by the Court of Justice's ruling. You don't have to be a lawyer or a judge without thinking about what this is and whether they read the same laws. This is not about the lack of freedom of the judiciary, it's about the helplessness of citizens to come to justice that was once interpreted in one way, and sometimes in another way. The judge does not carry absolutely no consensus in such or similar cases, and the procedure for the review has been disabled due to the low value of the dispute. What about the scandalous verdicts of Judge Majic, what was my esteemed colleague Jovanovic talking about? What coincidences are held by judges who interpret the law in their familiar way. Often because of the lack of parties to the hearing, the proceedings are extended indefinitely, but lawyers orderly charge their tariffs and who is there at the loss? The court doesn't. Only citizens who came for justice. In my view, inefficiency is one of the biggest problems of the Serbian judiciary, but the issue of quality of legal protection and the laws to be applied is also ignored. The improvement of the efficiency of the judiciary is not possible unless a comprehensive approach is made to solving the problem of the irregular and excessive burden of certain courts, which was discussed by counterpart Kralj, particularly in the Belgrade City. These are three basic courts and the Supreme Court in Belgrade, in litigation. The trend of load and speed that happens in the mentioned courts is alarming. The number of cases received in the First and Third Court has increased more than twice since 2019 to 2020. From 61,000 to 131.779 items. Although judges have solved triple the number of cases a month than they were prescribed, as well as their monthly norm, the question is, can judges be immersed in the case? Or, as I have stated in a particular case, to judge by automation, not deepening in the position of colleagues from the same court and apparently to do a violation of the law and create mistrust of citizens in the judiciary, because it turns out that the most important thing is who judges you and how that judge interprets the law. Because how else do you explain the diametric opposite attitudes on the same issue? The new president of the Supreme Cassation Court won't be easy, but given her experience and reading her biography, I think she has the knowledge and strength to deal with the problems in this area. It's important to diagnose this, and then it'll be easier to get rid of it. The main and main problem is that everything is a priority. I will support the candidate president of the Supreme Cassation Court, Jasmina Vasovic, in the hope that he will do his job honestly and in a safe manner, that only the same rules will be passed by law for all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5200	Thank you. She is a colleague of Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5201	Thank you. Dear President, Mr Milojevic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are facing today a proposal for a VSS election by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. The proposal submitted by the VSS clearly and precisely defined that all procedures concerning the Law on Judges and the VSS suggest that Mrs Jasmina Vasovic be elected president. It is clear from the biography delivered that Mrs Jasmina Vasovic has spent all years in courts from the lowest court to the highest, which is the VCS in which she has been from 2018. Also, her biography shows that she has completed many trainings that have acquired additional knowledge and competences from many areas, and I would stress here a priority day and, in fact, that she has acquired knowledge and has passed training concerning the protection of the rights of the child, as well as criminal and legal protection of minors. It is also important that in this process it is unanimously supported by the general session of the VCC, which means that everyone voted in favour of the proposal. I hope that, with honor, responsibly and honestly, it will carry out the duties of the President of the VCC, which also points to its programme which it has delivered during its competition, which concerns the improvement of the work of the judiciary in which, among other things, it states that it will be advocated for an effective judiciary, for a reasonable trial, for further training of judicial trainers, for their further education, but of course the programme also concerns transparency and judicial co-operation with other institutions. What I'm saying is, I have to look back on the period until 2012 when the country of Serbia was managed by a yellow tycoon company painted in the image and in the Sundays of Dragan Gilas, a national pair robber, depicted in the image and parts of the destroyers of all segments of the social life of the Republic of Serbia, and among those institutions that were yellow tycoons and yellow tycoons were committed by the people's couples was, of course, a judicial system. I cannot without mentioning the disastrous reform of the judiciary by the then government, then president and then minister of justice, as well as the president of the VCC, Mrs Snezana Malovic. In that case, thousands of judges and prosecutors were left without a job, without any explanation, with an explanation of the fact that it was a "kopi-paisy" for all the judges in the prosecutors, which is actually what hit judges and prosecutors the most, and it was about their unworthyness. Is there anything more embarrassing that the Justice Ministry of the time could tell judges who were not re-elected than that they were not worthy of judicial office? It was a direct attack on their integrity. It was a direct attack on their families, but the yellow tycoons and reformers of the then judiciary did not pay attention. Unfortunately, while seeking justice before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, some of these judges and prosecutors died. I must point out that by acting on these charges, the Constitutional Court has sent all the judges back, or declared a completely unconstitutional decision at the time on judicial reform and then the decision to keep 1,000 judges and prosecutors out of work. Of course, the European Commission, the European Union and the Venice Commission also pointed to this, but people's couples did not pay attention to it, because they were sure that the collapse of the judiciary would bring down one of the basic systems of every democratically decorated state, which is exactly the judiciary and the judicial system. Yellow tycoons and thieves Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Tadic, Borko Stefanovic passed laws on the orders of the tycoon, and the laws here were voted in the National Assembly, and the laws were such that they were not respected at all or if they were passed, so that they could accidentally rob Serbian citizens. In this failed judicial reform alone, they robbed Serbian citizens of 44m euros, because so many Serbian states had to pay the judges, prosecutors, and then there were, of course, lawyers who were hired by official duty, who had also not been paid for years, by 2012, there were interpreters, there were others employed in courts that had lost their jobs by the disastrous reform. Any, it didn't happen again. In 2012, the citizens of the yellow tycoons and thieves, robbers and money launderers, sent them to the wasteland of history. What is for the SNS and the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children the priority and what is one of the objectives of this government, it is the fight against corruption everywhere and at all levels and we have shown this during the conduct of our authorities in senior courts, the strike groups have been organised, all those for whom there were elements that wronged their corrupt actions about the law. There are nearly 1,000 convictions among them, and there has been no view of which political option they belong, because thieving is a thief, it is a crime, it is punishable no matter what political party and what political option it belongs to. But what is significant today is that the former mayor and member of the DS yellow tycoon and robber Dragan Gilas, who profited from the budget money, 619m euros and, of course, was also on accounts in Mauritius, Hong Kong, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, in our neighbouring countries. There's about 67 million dollars in those accounts. What is the priority of all the competent institutions, starting with the police, through the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court is to examine how and how tycoon Dragan Gilas came to these couples, to examine the origin of this money, not only for our sake, but for Serbia's citizens, because that money certainly comes from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, was acquired at the time when Dragan Gilas, the yellow tycoon and the thief, carried out and exercised power. Who can be so rich as to acquire apartments that are measured not in square meters, in arias, whose garages are also measured in square meters, but in arias, who can acquire some public function without being involved in other shops? For this reason, all this money acquired by Dragan Gilas calls on the competent institutions to take all measures to be investigated and to get a response from the judicial institutions and other competent authorities. The Serbian Progressive Party has zero tolerance for corruption and we fight with our strength and every day that all criminals and all thieves are brought to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5202	Thank you. The next is MP Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5203	So they don't repeat themselves, let me just say one sentence. So in 2008, the judiciary, our system destroyed the West. Whether it was through Nate or Hope or the Millionaire, it doesn't matter. We came into a situation today to build our own judiciary and talk about an independent judiciary. There is no independent judiciary without an independent judge, and in order for the judge to be independent, he must be economically independent. The judges need to be assigned gold cards for a year, if they deserve it. How should they deserve it? There is no more grateful area for measuring the results of the work than the judiciary. You have levels, basics, higher, appeals, cassation. The decision at each level is being checked at a higher instance. It is known by the judge exactly how many final solutions he made during a certain period of time, final solutions. According to that number, he should be assigned a certain so-called. I'd say cardinal number. According to that number, he needs to be paid. That's what you should do every year. It should be constantly in this group, in this gathering of judges who are currently found to create quality rewarding, not to deal with those who are pulling back, constantly thinking and rewarding those who are tow, reward them and provide them with this economic independence. On the other hand, provide them with a social position. To be clear, in addition to this economic act, we need to do for the judges, and that is what the people expect, the code of dress, the code of conduct. Let's say, if the court starts at seven o'clock, if you go into the hallway, into any court building, can you identify and tell in that crowd who the judge is? Can you tell on the street if you know he's a judge, who's a judge? The judge must be a gentleman. The judge used to be a gentleman. The judge had to judge in a suit, with a tie. The judge's in the hood today, in the sweater, except maybe he's not judging in short pants. I know there are rules that have been brought to the level of all courts, but who's checking to see if that's respected? I attended and was at the trial when he tried the judge who was in the sweater. You can imagine what that is. Secondly, if someone is defined as a judge, he's a judge for 24 hours in a public place. No judge in a small place can appear in short pants in the afternoon at public meetings. We have to think about all this because the people are watching it. On the other hand, it must be kept in mind who they associate with and judge in these small places. I come from a small place relatively. The judge can't sit and chat in the afternoon when he's not working with a criminal, with a man who knows the whole place is a criminal. These things may be irrelevant to someone, but I think they're very, very important to the people. All that can be arranged. So, once again, in court, you can measure the effect of each individual, first of all the judges, and then that advance salary that is given over the year to be paid at the end of the year when each judge is given that cardinal number, then the final salary is paid. He needs those who draw, who solve, who should be rewarded, and those who drag back, who cannot be judges, should be left in the well, they will leave themselves. What else do I suggest? We've made a decision on the bailiffs. I wouldn't go back on the subject to end it, but I'm saying, that's my opinion, I respect the opinion of the majority, and the court should do the work of the bailiffs. How? That officer in court who does the work of a court enforcer should be allowed to earn over his salary, he has a standard, if he moves that standard, he needs to earn. If we let him make money, he'll make money for the court, too, he'll make money for the state, because big money's being poured into private hands. Privates have no competition, they must have competition in court. On the other hand, notaries. Notaries also have to have competition. Who's supposed to be the notary competition? Competition for notaries should also be a court, that there is a man in court who will do the job, who should have the norm, but that man must be interested in transferring that norm, to earn a double, triple salary, to make competition with that notary in order for the price to be lower, for the citizens to profit. The third thing I want to talk about, and I think I talked about it once, says the judge for the previous trial. Look, judge for the previous trial, I can't always remember that. Who was the investigative judge, I don't know who it occurred to in the first place that instead of the word of the investigative judge, the judge says about the previous case. Notorious nonsense. Please, be wrong about some things that were good. So once again, the court district, the court authority is most grateful to be settled, and I appeal to the new president, I see this biography of hers, that she, by her experience, has worked in the basics, and so on and so forth, by appeal, she can also know the problem. The matter can be arranged very quickly regardless of what they made in 2008. They didn't, if they hadn't found Nate, they'd have found the Millionaire. He did it, to understand each other, the West, as he destroyed our army, as he destroyed the police, so he wanted to destroy both the judiciary and the school, and so on, tried to destroy it. So these are the things we have to solve and this is my appeal. So that program that the future president wrote should be about what I was talking about, about fixing the situation in the judiciary, because, we have to admit, we can't lie, the people have lost their trust, in part, in this court and in this justice and in their work. Mr. Miloevich, you know it better than I do. So he has to and he can fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5204	Thank you. The next is MP Dusan Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5205	Thank you, Chairman. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my presentation, I will take the opportunity to wish the Roma national population a happy World Roma Day, and to publicly praise the youth's Udravity of the Roma in Chačka, the "Jipski team", led by Gradimir Radosavljevic Gango, because they are just the right example of how Roma should be networked and how they should fight for their rights. They have been helping Roma and Serbian families for a full year, and where luck is there for others to function anyway, because it is the only way for them to choose for rights and help local self-government in all of this. When it comes to the agenda, we don't have to be lawyers or lawyers in order to understand the consequences that the yellow government left for the prosecution in the previous period. All these consequences today we also feel as citizens and I as a MP or political official have no right to interfere in the proceedings in court and in the prosecution. Neither do judges have the right to interfere in politics, but apparently some do not respect it, so Judge Majic gives himself the right to do politics, not his own business. All of this is felt by citizens, and in everyday conversation and reception with citizens, I can freely say that a large number, including my Chacans, complains that court proceedings take a long time. Simply to welcome their justice, a few years passed and consciously accused persons in the process avoid appearing at scheduled hearings and citizens claim to be involved in this and individual judges. These are the reasons why the citizens later and punished them, definitely in the elections, because they showed what they knew about the prosecution and in 2009 and everyone today talked about this disastrous reform of the judiciary where the judges were out of work, and where they set up judges at the DS party meetings, where reports were filed in the city committees of these political parties, not to the competent institutions, where they passed laws to protect themselves from any responsibility tomorrow. All of this cost citizens over 44m euros. These consequences are still felt today, and it will take us a long time to correct it. That's why I think the choice of Jasmine Vasovic is the right thing to do. I'll back her up because based on everything we could see in the biography and read, I know she was a member of the Working Party for the Construction of the Law on the Protection of Justice within a reasonable period of time. That's what citizens are just pointing to. So that judgments are passed as soon as possible and that they are in the interest of the people. For all of this I can say that I should not look back on the opposition's comments today, because nothing is sacred to them, they will criticise everything we do, because it's obviously their job, they are today and they are criticising and the measures that the government and the president bring when it comes to suppressing the crown of the virus. We've almost had a situation today, although it's up to date, criticism of a new package of vitamins and bags that the president provides for his citizens to find, in addition to everything that's hit us by the crown of the virus, strengths to strengthen their immunity and continue in the vaccination process to save the nation from all of it. What were they doing in 2008 and 2009 during the global economic crisis? They've been giving jobs to the citizens. Well, after they're surprised that the people won't, and that they're punished in every election, while we're sharing vaccines today, four kinds of vaccines. While we're giving financial aid packages today. As we give food packages, as we give vitamins, while we try to keep the economy on track and protect all of our citizens, they criticise all of it. So I don't expect them to praise us, nor do we need their support for any decision. I respect the decision and the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary, and I will vote in the voting day. I can only tell them that the citizens have ruled them definitely in the elections, and let them prepare for what is coming, eventually they will answer for all the marifetteluks in front of the competent institutions in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5206	Thank you. The next MP, Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5207	Thank you. At the end of the 17th and 18th centuries, two, perhaps the most significant works dedicated to political theory of philosophy were created. The first is the work of English philosopher and theorist John Locke "Two Discussions on Government". In this part, the dualist theory of state authority is presented, i.e. the view that the judicial authority is a segment and part of the legislative authority and that the government is limited by natural laws, i.e. the natural rights of each individual, such as the right to life, the right to property and positive rights, i.e. by the Constitution and laws. The second act came 50 years later, the work of French philosopher and theorist Charles Monteskije "About the Spirit of the Law" and it is known for one principle that we often mention here, which is the principle of the division of power, i.e. to divide the authorities into executive, legislative and judicial power. The first state to have built this principle into its legal system and its constitution is the US through a system of checks and balances, i.e. that system implies a balance of three branches of government. With the constitution of a certain jurisdiction for each of them and each carrying out control and verification of others which provides for their mutual restriction. Today we are discussing a proposal to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, i.e. the election of Ms. Jasmine Vasovic. From the biography delivered, we see its professional path and development from graduating from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade and passing a judicial exam, to the election of the Supreme Court judge. There's nothing to argue about. What I was interested in was the interview that Mrs Vasovic had in front of the board of the Supreme Judicial Council, where she talked about the reasons for which she was running, the goals and what her job would be if she was elected president of the Supreme Cassation Court. I found this interesting detail about the code of ethics, and as Mrs Vasovic herself said at the time, it is her favorite theme and adds that as young judges they had codes framed in cabinets. It is sometimes neglected that the code is an excellent instrument for defending judges. Principles like dignity, expertise and responsibility, when you become a judge, that doesn't mean the end, it means the beginning. You must always have the law in your hands, you should be an example to others, and you must have credibility for everything you do. So you have to have credibility for everything you do, I underline. Last week, my esteemed colleague, Milenko Jovanovic, spoke about the prevention of certain media, certain politicians and parties and certain judges. And as he said it nicely then, about March 8th or 9th, it all came out, and after the conference of Alexander Vukic, at which he presented all those monstrous details of the murders of the arrested clan Veljko Belivuk. On that day, on one opposition television, we had the opportunity to watch the headlines and news of content that had only one goal, which is to turn the topic from what is main and to tell us, Serbian citizens, that everything that Alexander Vukić made that day, that it was not content that was suitable for the media with national frequencies. All that day, some self-proclaimed leaders of the opposition worked hard and scolded over what Vukić had said and tried to show us the more original way of showing us what he had broken that day. They only lacked one thing: credibility. This credibility was given the same evening on the show, on the same television, from a judge we often had the opportunity to mention today, and also these days, who said that Vucic's press conference was a degradation of the judiciary. Of course, the credibility that I have now mentioned and the credibility mentioned by Mrs Vasovic in her job interview have no touch points and no connection, it is absolutely true. But I'm wondering now, I'm asking myself, and I'm asking all of you -- do we have on this case and do we see this band between certain parties and politicians, certain media and certain judges? I think you can all make an individual conclusion. What Mrs. Vasovic certainly shouldn't be doing if she is elected president of the Supreme Casualty Court is not to behave the way these judges behave, because it is an excellent example, but negative, that one judge should not behave. Because who gave this gentleman the right to be someone who would represent the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia? Well, he is not the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia and is not a court where he is employed by the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia. It's a typical example of abuse of a judge's office and something you don't have to do. And what really bothers them very much and makes them very nervous is the voice heard from this Parliament, from this Assembly, from us, the representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Well, if we are an independent branch of government and if the judiciary is an independent branch of government and we listen to criticism every day and listen to what is here, what are we talking about, what are we talking about, and why are we talking about who and who we can't mention, then I guess we as a legislative authority, as a National Assembly, as representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have the right to comment on another independent branch of power, which is in this situation a judiciary? I think we have to do it and have the right to do it, even though they think there are some people in this country who are protected as white bears and who can talk about anything they want and spit on everyone and do what they want without anyone saying a single word about them. That is why we will continue to talk about everything that is wrong with the judiciary, because we want our courts to work faster and more efficiently, so that criminals don't walk the streets and not walk through the cities of Serbia, but to be in the place where they should be, and these are prisons and behind bars. There are always those who are independent and brave to tell us that it is possible for someone to acquire property of several tens of millions of euros in such a short time, how to export that money to several dozen countries, foreign countries, on different continents and place that money on different accounts. And that's the question we all want to hear the answer to. Understandably, when you are at a press conference and a journalist asks you a question about the origin of that money and the origin of that property, to defend yourself with silence. Because what would you say in your defense when everything is clear as day? What's very important is that if you don't have to answer the question to the press, you're definitely going to have to do it in front of the state's competent authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5208	Thank you. The next MP, Adam Schucalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5209	I thank the chairman. Here's what to add to the very beginning with regard to what all respected colleagues have talked about today and the importance of this topic, and above all, to point out once again, because in my speeches on this subject of justice I am speaking about, the importance of Parliament, the Republic of Serbia, which we have the opportunity to discuss and to choose, especially such important functions as the President of the Caste Court. For this reason, I believe that there is no need in the Republic of Serbia, given that many advocate certain changes in the judiciary to establish certain institutions, which would be parallel judicial institutions, some high, judicial, prosecutorial councils, wherever these examples were, existed in the region. Here I will once again cite the example that BiH has such a system of justice, which is certainly the worst in Europe, although it was a project of the international community and certain foreign embassies, did not bring anything good to the citizens in terms of fighting crime and fighting corruption, fighting organised crime and fighting crime in the region. Such solutions that some groups, which are opposed to us, political, SNS policy, Alexa Vukic's politics, will do no good to Serbia and to copying, photocopying such practices, will not do us any good, and for that very reason I say every time that I am very pleased to debate here. Of course, Serbian counterparts were just talking about it, of course we have the right to debate, of course that parliament is also performing parliamentary oversight over the work of the judiciary, not in terms of individual decisions, judgments and everything else. Why? For a simple reason, because citizens, our voters, are asking us, not what we've already done, to create an ambience and political struggle, the will to deal with organised crime and corruption. We manifested and manifested it. But our responsibility, as well as the legislative and executive authorities, is not for what happens in the judiciary. But the anomalies that exist, individuals who get involved in everything and deal with different NGOs, and political activities is a practice that doesn't exist anywhere. For this reason we speak here in parliament, we point to these anomalies. None of us have ever spoken here and called a particular judge on why he ruled and commented on those verdicts, but citizens expect an effective fight. Gentlemen, everyone in the judiciary is expected to have what is said to be a procession, to end here and to have such decisions, to have such judgments. When we talk about decisions, we talk about prosecution decisions. When we talk about judgments, we talk about courts and what we need so much more than that, that we finally have a practice that will imply that we have effective and rapid trials, where the prosecution will prepare everything necessary. In that direction, we are in favour of the higher jurisdiction of the police agencies' prosecutors, security agencies, in order to be more efficient and faster in position so that the courts can judge faster and more effectively. That's what's key and what's important. But I can see that these days our political opponents called the opposition, who should be an alternative to being more nervous. Nervous, precisely because of the process that concerns and entry into force and the application of different laws that are exactly their leaders, such as Dragan Gilas not only puts on wallpaper, puts every citizen, the anxiety is strengthened, the media battle, to say from that side, artillery, more and more fires towards the SNS, according to our officials, according to SNS President, Alexander Vukic, and it is logical that we, in a political fight, have the right to respond in a political platform. Therefore, gentlemen, we see that you are very nervous, we see that Dragan Gilas is very nervous because he thought he would return to power quickly. Well, they're a little wrong. We are only in the first decade of power, and for what you have done in 12 years of your regimeal authority, in the way that you have politically, economically, diplomaticly destroyed the Republic of Serbia, so it takes a minimum of 30 years to correct, not your mistakes, but what you have done in a vermin. Your policy, which was known for it -- debt, sales, spending, has passed. Today, Serbia has another policy -- investment policy, creation policy, a good image of Serbia both on the economic side and on each other. What you've done on the regional plan has been disastrous in the past period of time and we have the right here in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia to remind citizens of what you think they've forgotten. As long as we are here, we will remind the citizens, because we are not talking to you, we are talking to citizens who have given us support and to those who are not to make a parallel between the policy you have been leading and the policies and results we are achieving today, headed by President Alexander Vukic. What Dragan Gilas knew in his mandate and the satellite political party that is around him today, since he is how we understand that particular leader. Apparently, he has the most financial resources he's stolen in public positions, which he's acted in parallel with working through his private companies, which even today he's not hiding. He says - I've performed public functions, and my companies have worked on the market. The portfolio of this market participation in terms of how much he worked on the free market and how much he worked with the state and with the city's companies, with state-owned enterprises, does not talk about it. And sure, here, the flat-rate ratio is 90% to 10%. Well, everybody knows businessmen like that. I make myself a combination, work, spread the tender, buy a commercial space, and I'm a big economic face, I'm a big businessman, I know how to make money. Master, everyone knows how to make that kind of money, but it's not making money, it's a crime, it's a robbery. Dragana Gilas did not rob only in the Republic of Serbia, he robbed Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro through public enterprises, i.e. the daughter of the company, our public enterprises, above all I mean "Teleko Serbia". It is little known here in Serbia that Dragan Gilas is through his companies, and there are different companies and you can't catch them, and he doesn't appear anywhere, and his companies, like ticks, suckle under the skin of blood stream and public finances and public budgets of public enterprises. Now, that's what Dragan Gilas was doing and his companies. He deserted while there he was able to get through his staff the various jobs he received here in Serbia at the "Mtel" of Republika Srpska, the "Telecom" of Republika Srpska that privatised Serbia. About that, of course you're not talking at all, like we all forgot that story. Well, we haven't forgotten Dragana Gilasu, I address you for this very reason because never again will the citizens of the Republic of Serbia choose such politicians who have so backward Serbia and all that the Serbian people need. Once again, I repeat, we are in the first decade. You're trying to take down Alexander Vukic, he's only in the first decade of power. As we have said, it takes at least 30 years to correct everything that you've done harmfully, and after that, when we do all that, when we raise it up like we do every day, its public enterprises, the city of Belgrade, honestly and honestly, if they show up better tomorrow, and they certainly are no alternative, to hand over power to them and to do it with a safe step, if God will, and better than we do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5210	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5211	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Milojevic, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk today about the proposal of the Supreme Council of the judiciary for the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, which is Mrs. Jasmina Vasovic. It should be pointed out, that's my distinguished colleague, Mrs. Bilja Pilja, she said, and I'll do it one more time. So we're just voting on a proposal from the High Judiciary Council, for the record. Mrs. Jasmina Vasovic is a woman who has been to all the courts as far as the judiciary is concerned, so I will be happy to vote for this lady, because she has extraordinary references, meaning from the lowest instance of the judiciary, to the most, and secondly, she has had a lot of training, so I think she will do her job honestly and honestly. I always say that there are 98% of honorable judges in the judiciary, and not only the judge but also those who deal with the prosecution, but there are 2% who do not do their job properly, more specifically, work for their party books. That's not good. That's not how it's supposed to be done. Serbia is today asking the independent branch, which is the judiciary, to be as professionally as possible, to be honorable, to make judgments on the actions that those who should go where they belong, not party membership. Any, it didn't happen again. Before I go to my presentation, and as far as 2009 goes, Europe is my source, just to congratulate with the joy of the international Roma holiday and I really look forward to it, because these are wonderful people who live in the Republic of Serbia and represent one of the 22 national minorities. Source Radio Europe says -- Serbia's Society of Judges has accused the Supreme Judiciary Council of being a list of 1,500 judges, who take office on January 1st 2009, made up under political pressure. At the same time, the head of the council, Nata Mesarovic, at the National Assembly of Serbia, defended herself from charges of nepotism, based on it because it is among the names of future judges, imagine, and the name of her son. The chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, until recently Judges of the Special Court for Organized Crimes and War Crimes, also the president of the Judicial Council, who delivered the verdict to Milorad Ulemek Legija and other participants in the murder of Zoran Djindjic, attended the assembly session during a debate on the election of judges and prosecutors. She faced sharp and very personal criticism from party MP Vojislav Kostunica, Mr Milos Aligrudic. Mr. Milos Aligrudic wonders how it is possible that the lady, so Nata Mesarovic, is calling for any kind of criteria and objectivity when she sits in an organ that chooses her own son as the Fourth Court judge in Belgrade? Well, where is the conflict of interest, Mrs. Mesarovic, this gentleman wonders, and Mrs. Nata Mesarovic answers that her son has extraordinary references, that he is the best and that he was elected at a time when the DSS had his own government and when he had the majority in this assembly. But there are also honorary judges, judges who say, quietly, but true. According to rumours, therefore, to what colleagues in the Census Department of the Fourth Municipal Court from which his colleague had progressed, he was at the bottom of the scale according to statistical results, said Mrs Branislav Goravica, the judge who was re-elected, but solidarity with colleagues who did not. So that's how it's done. We're doing justice, and we're not doing favors, family relationships, who wants to do what they want from whom. What's unthinkable for me is that the tycoons have their own judge and their own prosecutor. It never happened again. Let's move on. What does the source "Tabloid" and Mr. Milan Glamocanin say? They say the following -- in Belgrade, a senior court judge in Belgrade, Mr Branislav Blazic, was arrested in 2015 on charges of committing a crime by trade in influence. The special prosecutor's office for the fight against organised crime said that the judge had been followed for more than eight months and that he tried to get the Supreme Court of Cassation judge in Belgrade to favour the case of an entrepreneur who was convicted in Novi Sad, which is not true, but the humiliation of Judge Blazic was carried out by order and who, other than Snezana Malovic, called Maca, former justice minister and Miljko Radisavljevic, special prosecutor and Nate Mesarovic, former chairman of the High Council of Justice. In fact, it all began when Serbian Supreme Cassation Court President Dragomir Milojevic and his group of colleagues filed criminal charges against former Justice Minister Snezana Malovic and Supreme Cassation Court President Nate Mesarovic over the failure of judicial reform and damages of 1.5 billion dinars. In addition to former Minister Malovic, the criminal application charged with abuse of official office included all members of the true composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, former Supreme Court President Nata Mesarović, then Jelena Borovac, investigative judge Vuko Mirčić, Biljana Toskovic, Nadica Jovanovic, Djurdina Bjelobaba, former chairman of Bosko Ristic's Assembly Committee for Justice, Dejan Ćirić and Predrag Dimitrijevic. The criminal application was signed by Mr Milojevic, present and Novica Pejkovic, President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, then Judge of the Supreme Cassation Court Janko Lazarevic, Zoran Talovic, Dragan Jocic and Dragisa Djordjevic. Why am I reading this tax? Well, because people aren't afraid, because they're there, because they're doing God's justice, to judge how they should judge, not to protect criminals, not to work on the order of the tycoon, but to do justice. These people know how to do things and they have no fear. That's the kind of Serbia we expect, and that's what we're fighting for in 2012 and that's how it's gonna be. Since 2012, we've been fighting. The applicants of criminal charges stated that they were registered as officials members of the first composition of the High Council of the Judiciary in the process of electing judges by taking advantage of their official position and were more likely to violate the rights of 837 judges, because when deciding on the election of judges on 16 December 2009, they did not decide whether they were eligible to be elected judges, although they were obliged to apply the election procedure to them, but only by decision of 25 December 2009, concluded that these judges had been suspended as of 31 December 2009. That, my dears, was a cleanup unseen and, thank God, in 2012, when we came to power, we brought all these people who simply took down in one cruel way back to their functions. And not only that, let's just remember that in 2008, when not only are judges, they're 1,000, but when 400,000 people get fired. It didn't care how these people live and it wasn't 400,000, it was three, four, five members. They say people are leaving Serbia mass today. Well, they're not leaving now, Serbia came back when the 400,000 pandem began, and they forced these people to leave this country and, thank God, they returned to Serbia and 90,000 young people for the programme that the government of the Republic of Serbia made because of the many benefits that young people will receive, and only for young people, five hundred million euros were allocated for new investments, or for investment in factories, and not just factories, but wherever these young people will work. So these lies and stupidity are really over everyone's head. And another thing, former Minister Malovic and Prosecutor Miljko Radisavljevic successfully traded with those who are responding to a special court today. Darko Saric was forced to buy the minister and prosecutor an apartment no less than in Washington and supply them with a large amount of money, four million dollars. The "Tabloid" magazine has described the crimes of Ms Malovic and Prosecutor Radosavljevic for years. I don't want to talk about them anymore, 'cause I'm not feeling well right now. Today we choose an honest and honest woman and I am sure there will be another picture of the Serbian judiciary. Now something extraordinary, which is that yesterday the loop at Batajnica was opened before the deadline. It was supposed to be over in a month. It's endowed with the happiness of all the people who live in that part, and two Paz and Batajnica and Zemun Field. Instead of 9.6m euros, the loop cost only 8.8m euros. The other wonderful news since yesterday is that since the inoculation without an appointment, 54,000 people have been vaccinated yesterday. Mostly I've seen young people, which is good, because they'll protect the health of their parents, their grandparents, their grandfathers. There's more good news. One of them is that today the payment of the first half of the minimum earnings for March from the third aid package began. Also, these days, they're starting to share packages to help pensioners, and I'm going to vote on this good news day, and vote for this lady who's been proposed, and that's Mrs Jasmina Vasovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5212	Thank you. The next is MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly elects the President of the Supreme Cassation Court on the basis of, above all, the Constitution, and then the law that closes the way the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is elected. A young colleague of mine even mentioned the history of Serbia's Supreme Courts, with one finding, as far as I understand, that until now the integrity of this highest judicial authority has not been violated by its establishment. Unfortunately, I can't agree with my colleague. They've broken it like that. He was violated during the famous reform of the judiciary. They violated him when they chose which of the judges would be the judge, and whom they would send out of the judicial authorities because of some attitude. It was similar in the prosecution, but the culmination of the insolences that they had was the election of the president of the 2009 Supreme Cassation Court. Now when you look at the proposal we have for a new candidate, and look at the explanation, in one part of the explanation you will find a commission for the candidate for the election of Supreme Cassation Court President Jasmin Vasovic, established a final assessment of five, all in accordance with Article 17 of that Regulation and drew up a previous list of candidates on a form which is an integral part of the rule. The Commission has obtained the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court on a candidate for the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the National Assembly elected Nata Mesarovic as President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court did not exist. Someone can expect it to be just a formality. However, Article 144. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia foresees the obligation of the President of the Supreme Casation Court to elect the National Assembly to hold a general session of the Supreme Cassation Court and the committee of the National Assembly. Now you can imagine when you elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court on 30 November 2009, and our Supreme Cassation Court begins on 1 January 2010, and it was proposed by the VSS who was not even in full composition. Now you can see how they were playing with the holders of judicial functions. I am saying all this because the former regime is constantly trying to show the current government and the president of the Republic of Serbia as dictators and that the judiciary in our Serbia is not working, and this is just one small episode of how the justice system in Serbia has functioned during their rule and we are now experiencing such criticism from those people who did it during the government. If only we had missed the opinion of the Supreme Cassation Court session, the General Sessions, but, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we here in the National Assembly have been given a forged document in the procedure. Do you believe that there is a document in the National Assembly that does not correspond to the law or is not signed, nor is it handed over by someone who has the right to do so. Did VSS suggest Nata Mesarovic. Just find me where that source is here in the National Assembly. Find me a paper in the National Assembly signed by the VSS, which is proposed by Nata Mesarovic as President of the Supreme Cassation Court. He's gone. They hid it. The archive is available, colleagues, you can check it out, and then they remembered that in the procedure the proposal was directed, not the opinion of the Justice Committee based on which Nata Mesarovic was elected president of the Supreme Cassation Court. They had this attitude towards the judiciary of Gilas and the company to listen to them. What do you wonder? Three lawyers decided on the fate of the Serbian judiciary. I don't mind a lawyer to get along right now. Three lawyers. Homen, which was then at the Ministry of Justice, Bosko Ristic, who was chairman of the Justice Committee and Nenad Konstantinovic and Dusan Petrovic, who was then minister in the government. So it's decided who's going to be the judge, who's going to be the prosecutor, and none of those lawyers ever thought they might be in a conflict of interest, because why not? Why don't you destroy, say, a little law practice. Simply change the Law on Prosecution, determine that a lawyer can only be one who is closely specialized in one area, those owners of large law offices, have a lawyer as many as they want, a small law practice would disappear in Serbia. And they passed all the laws to please themselves. And all the judges and prosecutors were kept in fear of going as their colleagues during the 2009 and 2010 re-elections. We heard here that Nata Mesarovic also appointed her son as a judge. I remember when she was once here in the National Assembly. You know how she treated the MPs who were then the opposition? It's like he's chairing a grand jury. People's MPs have been humiliated here since that same Nate Mesarovic. I was at that session. Now a team, led by a reality judge, have nothing against reality, but I don't think that the holders of judicial functions there are the place, trying to convince Serbian citizens that the judiciary in Serbia is not working. Here, my colleague, Milenko Jovanovic, spoke about Judge Majic today in his presentation, as an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group. We've been told a lot of colleagues, even mentioned how I asked him to come here and ask him about some things. I did. I'd have a lot to ask him as a MP. I do not interfere with his work, I would just ask certain questions more according to the rules of the Code of Conduct of Justice, but rather about the judgments he writes, and of course I will always defend the position of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, even when they are contrary to the judgments of the Majic judge, because I did not violate the independence and independence of the judicial office, but I supported those court cases that decide whether a verdict was made in accordance with the law and the Constitution or not. It seems to me that the tabloids, such as NIN and others, are trying to put words in my mouth that I didn't say, and it's obvious that what we're saying here at the National Assembly is giving some cause to try to disrupt dignity and the National Assembly and each MP individually. I will remind only my colleagues of an article praised by the Majic judge, which even included the Association of Judges of Serbia. Among other things, it is said that the Association calls on us as MPs to refrain from encouraging the mistrust of citizens in the judiciary, and the public authorities to direct knowledge and energy to the quality of their responsibilities rather than to blame each other and to call individuals. It is recalled in the statement that the courts and judges are obliged to make a legitimate and reasoned decision based on a fairly established factual state to which the material law is properly applied. I support that. I absolutely support that attitude, not exactly them, but I have nothing against that attitude. Today's NIN, imagine, judges of the Belgrade Court of Appeal, a member of the Serbian judiciary in one of the tabloids. We'll come to the front page. Just to show what the two-faced Judge Majic is like, and I'm asking the question -- why didn't the Association of Judges answer the previous statements and the question -- will it answer what Judge Majic said in that interview? Remember, to remind the association of judges asked MPs not to make statements that would violate citizens' confidence in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. In today's number, here's a question -- can you even say in this atmosphere that justice is the third branch of power? Judge Majic answers - long ago I am saying that not only can we not seriously claim that our judiciary is fulfilling its Constitution-guaranteed purpose, the equation is unfortunately simple, the expression of such a situation is vice-proportional to the number of people who are willing to advocate that this situation is changed. He has just offended all his fellow judges, regardless of the level of the courts, whether they are the courts of the basic, more or any other jurisdiction. Or about today's issue -- how do you interpret that it's not even public interest who's going to be the Supreme Judge? Does it make any difference to all of us, and does this mean that as a people, we believe that judgments are no longer brought in courts? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that someone has barely passed for a judge, that barely finished law school, that he's just become a judge knows that the answer to such a humiliating question is not given. Now you see what Judge Majic is responding to - I'm afraid that's exactly what one of the basic reasons is. Citizens of large parts believe that it is irrelevant who will be the real judge. Now we insult the citizens. That's the story they're telling about Serbia's credentials that rule, that most Serbian citizens are illiterate, stupid. They are not Serbia's citizens, the worthy authorities they should be led by Gilas and Solak and Majic. In an offensive opinion, it will be a passing political puppet anyway. Mr. President, he insulted you too. While essential decisions will be made at Andric's wedding in this area as well as in all other areas. This is an extremely dangerous belief. But it may be even more dangerous to realize from talking to my colleagues that they don't believe it's significant and that it's clear that it doesn't come to such a position without the President's green light. That's what Judge Majic said without any evidence. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And he's still mad at his colleagues for why they don't react and it confirms by continuing -- that's why many and more experienced colleagues didn't think to compete or stand up. It's clear to them that judges have no authority, that they've lost their dignity with the moss and that they can't influence the state even in their own brand, and then it's a real defeat of this and this kind of justice. Does the Association of Judges of Serbia, in its statement, only think of MPs who encourage citizens' mistrust in the judiciary or do they refer to the holders of judicial functions and even when it comes to the reality of Judge Majic? Of course they touched the part I was talking about at the previous session. What says Majic - recently Veroljub Arsic in the Assembly said that you are protecting rapists and asked when will you come to the Assembly as a judge to be asked what you are doing? Did they invite you to come? To be honest, I'd like him to come. But Judge Majic answers -- they didn't call me, and even if they did, I would have seen it as just one, another kind of joke with the constitutional order. The judge explains his views in the decisions he makes. Well, Mr. Majiæ, we've read your decisions as well. We have read the decision you have signed as judge of the Court of Appeal and which you have annulled the first-degree conviction for the promise of a 13-year-old girl and supported in your argument that it is the custom of our Roma, that children of Roma nationality, girls of thirteen years of age, have no right to enjoy the protection of our laws and that promises can be made. It was written and signed by Judge Majic and fortunately that the verdict did not remain in the legal order. I talked about it at the previous session. The ruling that it remained in Serbia's legal order would be the beginning of Serbia's introduction into fascist ideology because when you declare an ethnic, religious or national group because of their skin color or diversity that you have from a single country's constitutional and legal system, which Hitler has worked with Roma and Jews since 1936, you start doing the same thing that happened in Nazi Germany. I don't know how serious Judge Majic is about everything he claims. One more thing, how does someone come up with the idea that a judge should explain to parliament the verdicts, can we imagine the situation in which he sits in the O.R. while MPs insult him or throw tomatoes at him? The answer is this -- I'm afraid a little of the things we can imagine here are the same as I'm not afraid that keeping in mind the level of debate that has been seen so far would not only be kept on tomatoes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, he has declared us violent. He is trying to show that he is a slightly higher class than we were elected by the citizens, and he was appointed by the VSS as the judge of the Court of Appeal, chaired by Nata Mesarevic, who was unconstitutionally elected president of the Supreme Cassation Court. Why would I want him to come to Judge Majic's National Assembly? Among other things, because of today's headline in the same NIN, Miodrag Majic says -- political and judge ties are dangerous. I agree, but I would like to ask him - and what are the links between the judges and the ambassadors in Serbia? How dangerous are they? Did these links between judges and ambassadors in Serbia in 2013 release criminal responsibilities for the war crimes committed by the Gjilan Group? What does Judge Majic not say who keeps saying that independence and independence of the judiciary are at stake, how could he do so in such a dictatorial regime, because then the SNS was in power, we are talking about the 2013 verdict, if such a dictatorial regime, how could he pass such a verdict? It wasn't a regime back then, it wasn't a dictator now, but everything he's been doing is trying, for his known reasons, it's going to have to do the same thing, I'd like him to explain to us here, trying to take responsibility for the current government. The situation in the judiciary is important for the functioning of a single state, for the fundamental rights of citizens, but, people, what were the rights of citizens when your judges elected four lawyers? Again, I have nothing against lawyers, but I have against those who have accumulated such political power that everyone in the area of the judiciary has been asked. They chose judges, they chose prosecutors, the Assembly passed laws as they asked, so what are the rules of the citizens? Then what are human rights in such a state? Now, we have this same team that shamed the Serbian judiciary, because they're breaking the courts after World War II can't possibly be called the Serbian judiciary, but they have, they've shamed the Serbian judiciary since its creation, the first and only time to date. They violated the rights of judges who were not elected and prosecutors who were not elected. The Constitutional Court confirmed it. Also, one of the perhaps most important questions I would ask him, since this scandalous verdict, which is above all the judicial practice that our judiciary knows -- that it is not as a judge, as a man, possibly as a father, is a shame to remain in that position when such one of his judgments was annulled by the Supreme Court of Cassation and found that it was not passed under the law? And he has the right to talk about tomatoes? And he has the right to speak of other judges' dignity? And he has the right to speak of us, MPs? What kind of legitimacy does he have and who does he represent? Is there a reality court? I heard they exist in America. They run public debates, broadcasts, shows and shows. Apparently, he prefers the Anglo-Saxon right of our continent based on whom he's made a liberating verdict for the Gjilan group. Let him see if they would choose him as a judge there, I'm sure they wouldn't, because only Bosko Ristic, Homen, Petrovic can choose him as a judge, no one else. Now he's gonna spray the ashes on everything. What's so controversial that the public doesn't have much interest in selecting the President of the Supreme Cassation Court? That we are an illegal state, that the courts do not function, that human and civil rights are threatened and that the public would be interested, and that when public interest is put into order in some area, the public's interest ends at that moment. It is true that we still have much to do to achieve the full capacity that the Serbian judiciary would like to have, but this absence of a part of the public who is not interested in such a thing confirms exactly that we are on the right track and that for the second time the National Assembly will elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court in accordance with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, unlike the bastards of the Gilas regime who did it in an unconstitutional and illegal manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5214	Thank you. The next is MP Milan Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5215	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr Milojevic, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished citizens, we have today a very important topic, and this is a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. At first, I would like to express my satisfaction with the current discussion, which was very exhausting, very contentable, as it is one of such important topics for our entire society, for our entire country, for our citizens. I can say that I have read the biography of candidates for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Mrs Vasovic, and I can say immediately on the basis of what I have seen, therefore on the basis of an impeccable biography, that I will support this proposal and I hope and sincerely believe that Mrs Jasmina Vasovic will do her job successfully, in accordance with all the legal and moral norms and principles. Every democratic society, as well as ours, rests on sound foundations, on three pregnant pillars. So, on the legislative, executive and judicial branch of the government. These three branches of government should be a partner in the service of citizens, should be a partner in building a safe democratic society for all citizens of Serbia. We heard a lot today, but precisely because of the public, precisely because of the citizens of Serbia I will repeat some facts, which are very important and which are root, the cause of some phenomena, some of the events in the judiciary that we have today. Unfortunately, our judiciary, even though it's been 12 years, has not yet recovered to that, let's say, so to speak, so to speak. The catastrophic reform of the 2009 judiciary when around 2,400 judges, as many as there were then, around 1,000 judges and prosecutors did not pass the re-election. Where criteria were exclusively political similarity, where no professionality, results, qualifications, work was taken into account, where the recommendation for someone's re-election or choice was either the opinion of the local board at the time of the ruling DS. The democratic parties that conducted the re-election, or the reform they called it, in accordance with their interests, the interests of the then ruling regime, the interests of the tycoons who had been harassing and robbing Serbia for those years. So about 1,000 judges and prosecutors are out of a job. To make the situation even worse, i.e. the haughtiness of the regime at the time confirms that they chose in the first term of three years the new 870 judges and prosecutors, or judges, and thus obtained or acquired a significant number of judges who would be subject to them in one way or another, and sooner or later repay themselves for re-election or progress in the ministry. Following the fall of the regime in 2012 in state drawers, lists of judges and prosecutors were found for re-election in 2009 with indications next to their names who intervened for their re-election, where there were very interesting names, including numerous tycoons, but also high-ranking state officials mentioned by the esteemed counterpart Arsic. It is a very interesting fact that one of these re-elected judges later left his job, went to law school and began to deal with very intense politics. That's the case, for example. Vladimir Vukinic, former judge of the Special Court, known for leading the Miskovic case, which returned his passport to Miroslav Miskovic. So, Vladimir Vukinic, who left the subpoena, went to law school, became very intensively involved in politics and, behold, miracles, of course, joined the People's Party of Vuk Jeremic, where he became a member of the presidency. I leave Serbian citizens to judge for themselves whether his political affection for the parties of the former regime may have affected his sharing of justice. On the other hand, there are active judges who, instead of doing their job as the law requires, are more resident on foreign embassies, more concerned with politics, daily policy issues. I suppose the citizens of Serbia already know well, and today we have heard several times that it is the judge of the Court of Appeal, Miodrag Majic. Miodrag Majic, who gives himself the right to criticise everything, and the relationship to the judiciary, and the legislative authority, and the executive power, etc., but because of this high house by my colleagues, when the arguments of criticism come at the expense of his political views, at the expense of his dealings with politics, even at the expense of his disastrous judgments, which I do not say, but in some cases, have brought down the judgments of the Majic judge, and then Judge Majic says – that is the pressure on the judiciary. I think it would be correct, if he already wants to deal with politics, and how much he is on television, in the media, more than many political party leaders, it would be correct to either establish a political party or join an existing party and continue to deal with politics, not abuse his own judicial position. No one here wants to influence the judiciary or put pressure on it, but how do we have the right to comment on the judgments of certain judges? Is it more sacrilegious to comment on the judgments of My dear Majic? Is it more sacrilegious to comment on his political views? Speaking of judgments, I am convinced that there is no citizen of Serbia who would support Miodrag Majic's acquittal to the Gnjilan Group, so-called. The KLA, which was indicted and convicted by the Major Court War Crimes Department in Belgrade for the most monstrous crimes against Serb civilians in the area of Gjilan from June to December 1999 for the murder of 80 Serb civilians. So 11 members of the group were sentenced by the Major Court War Crimes Department to 116 years in prison, and then the scene was staged by Judge Majic, who freed these people who in the most monstrous ways, I repeat, tortured and killed Serbs and other non-Albanians in the area of Gjilan. We've already heard that more cases have been shot down as an illegal verdict, but I think it's a weak comfort to the families of the victims, because they've suffered irreparable damage, because it's hard to believe that these criminals will be brought back to justice and prosecuted because they're physically not available to our judicial authorities. Also today is the World Day of Roma and our country, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made a great deal of efforts to integrate Roma into all areas of social life. I am also convinced that there is no citizen of Serbia who would support the acquittal of Miodrag Majic for the promise of a 13-year-old Roma girl, with the reasons we heard, but I will repeat that it is a widely accepted norm in the Roma population. So, in this way, compared with the state and society trying to integrate the Roma, Judge Majic sends this verdict a message that Roma are not subject to the law, that Roma can be subject to ordinary law. So he's openly disciplining. Apparently, there are citizens of higher and lower order for Judge Majic in Serbia, and I would not use a term that I would adequately call the system of such a state. I am deeply convinced that such judgments, that the departures of judges such as Judge Majic, but let us not forget, and Judges Aleksandr Stepanovic to the foreign embassies do not, in their opinion, contribute to increasing the confidence of Serbian citizens in our judiciary. That is why I call on all the honorable and honest judges, whom and how it has in our judicial system, to do their job in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with our country's laws, to contribute to the construction of an independent judiciary, to the construction of this solid third pillar of our country, on which modern Serbia will rest in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5216	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5217	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sure that the election of Jasmine Vasovic as President of the Supreme Cassation Court will be a good choice, that she has all the necessary references she will need to do this very important job for our judicial system and, of course, our entire country. What I want to look at in my speech is that after 20 years and more, we are paying the price of unsuccessful reforms of our judicial system, we are paying the price of one negative selection of people and people working in all courts, which apparently by today, by 2021, although in certain positions, they do not understand and understand that the judicial work is exactly what defines the judicial system, which is that it is the third branch of government, next to us here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which we are the legislative authority, our colleagues from the government as executive authorities and that they are actually the third pillar of the state. But that doesn't mean that working in court and being in the position of a judge, president of any court, that doesn't mean that you're autonomous of your people and that you're independent of your country and its interests. It exactly means the opposite – that all of us who do public work are dependent on our people and our own country and that we are obliged to work in the best interests of our people and our own country. We have today, unfortunately, after so many years, to pay for these 2009 judicial reforms, cases that some judges, this is what my fellow MPs have spoken about today and have spoken highly professionally, especially those who are lawyers, who are legal professions, I can talk about as someone who is a layman, who is a politician, who as a MP wants the best to his country and wants to come to my country to have the final rule of law. But the question is that, with the political will and full political support that people who want to establish the rule of law by both the President of the Republic of Serbia and us who represent the majority here in parliament, therefore, especially those who are most interested in the rule of law, which is SNS, there are those who actually experience this state, this Parliament and the institution of the state in such a way that in the media and in all possible channels of communication they consider and call us their enemies. We as MPs are obliged, as are the members of the government, as well as any man who deals with public affairs, to act in the way that it is simply defined, as it is necessary, as people who are responsible and who should lead this country. Completely, and this is what my colleagues were talking about today at this session, when it comes to Judge Majic and many other judges who are the judges of the most important courts and the most important judicial positions, you should not be a top-notch lawyer, you should not be a doctor of legal science like my colleague Aleksandar Martinovic, and to see that it is completely inappropriate for a judge to deal with daily-political issues, that one judge is involved in commenting on daily politics in one country and that he is a personification of that, and that he is, unfortunately, not the only one who does so, but he is a personification of that because he obviously loves and very often appears in the media that is not mindful of the opposition, I am not talking about you to appear in any media, of course, which is healing for every government and every state, and that you are critical, we do not want to be critical, we know, we want to be able to build this country and to do better in this country, which way. People's MPs do their job, therefore, in the work and in the field of adopting the best possible laws, the best possible legal framework and creating the necessary environment in order to ensure that citizens of the Republic of Serbia live better and better quality and, of course, protect themselves. What it is is SNS policy and what it is is something that leads us to the future and to the modernisation of this country is that the law is something that makes us free, but the law that will apply to everyone, the law that will apply to all people and the law that will lead to any function not to protect you from any criticism. And we feel that we have the right to criticise, and we believe that we have the right to raise our voice when it comes to the rule of law and when it comes to the functioning of some people who are actually in charge and should be independent in making their decisions and in their judicial functioning, but not completely alienated from their people, from their own country and from, of course, state institutions. And let me finish. No wonder, and it is no coincidence that the target and that Judge Majic and all those others who, behold, take the right to criticise daily and what is best, about which we and what the whole world takes off our hat, honors us. The problem is that their criticism is directed exclusively to the president of the Republic of Serbia, who in 2017 received 55% of the votes of the people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so four times as much as the second-placed and the problem is that we do, we are here, at least from the SNS, I think 179. We have won over 60% and we have the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we are the target. We are the target, as the people for whom the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have defined themselves to run the state and manage this country and in this fight clearly show that they do not exceed anything, that they abuse their judicial function, that in collaboration with certain companies one whole snake is being created, from Slovenia to Macedonia, buying media, buying media space, on a market basis, on a market basis, because buying and opening printed media is something that is very cost-effective, so there is space in the territory of the Western Balkans and in our countries to make daily media and daily press. Well, there isn't. And it's an obvious political agenda. However, the biggest problem in all of this and the biggest obstacle in all this is Parliament, the 179 of us who defend each abuse, who daily advocates this same rule of law and who advocate that this people and this state finally get and, as it has, thanks to President Vukic, our dignity, our integrity, our sovereignty, our culture of memory and the absence of shame to say what kind of people we are, to say what our red lines are, to say that we will defend KIM and our sovereignty at KIM, to say that we will work together with our brothers in Republika Srpska, that we will try to preserve regional peace and stability. That's all the stuff SNS stands for. Today is Roma Day, World Roma Day, and as far as human and minority rights are concerned. I just want to send a message to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and also to my fellow MPs and MPs, today the National Council of Roma and the Roma people are at Vukic, not at Majic, not at Gilas, who, having not been so short of our memory, only ten years ago forced them to move them out of their settlements, who knows where, not to bother absolutely neither their rights nor their needs that we care about today. As we care about the respect and rights of all national communities, all national minorities, therefore our relationship today, therefore, is the best relationship with the Hungarian minority and the Hungarian people in our history. Best relationship with Bulgarians, best relationship with Romanians. That's what the SNS represents, which is President Aleksandar Vukic. These are concrete things, wanting to make this people and these citizens live better. Of course, we need the rule of law to do that, but I think that many people in the judicial system need to put a finger on the head and say, "Do I work for my country, do I behave in the right way, or am I employed here and work to criticise the government and to deal with daily politics?" I'm not a lawyer, but I can say it's simply unacceptable. And that is why I believe that this choice, I hope that Jasmine Vasovic will be the right one, that it will be a positive selection and that we have finally introduced what President Aleksandar Vukic has introduced into our political life, introduced measurement and introduced quality-based decisions, based on references, rather than naked political struggles and not naked political or any financial or other interest, and we are all aware that by 2012, we have had a situation that we simply had a kind of captured state to which my fellow Members had previously said that, several people from the world of law enforcement, several people from the world of business, one president of the state, one mayor. They did all the work, they decided how the verdicts would be made, they decided who was going to go to jail, who was going to be released. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are gone. It doesn't exist anymore. A clear system has been introduced in Serbia, a serious state, and we will work wherever we can, as a party, as the majority of this House, led by our President Alexander Vukic, to every position and position, wherever we can influence, of course, and when it comes to the judiciary to come to people who are the best, who are the best and people who will know what their job is, what is their obligation to the state, what is patriotism and, of course, that third branch of government are encouraged to do best for their country, as does the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5218	I thank my colleague. Dr. Marko Atlagic is the current professor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5219	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honored President Milojevic, of course, as well as my colleagues who spoke today, I will vote for the election of Judge Vasovic, among other things, because she is the person who has advanced in her judicial work, the lowest court station to the highest court station and you have assured us on the basis and her biography that she has both expertise and training and dignity. To this dignity in particular, I focus because in the election of judges in the former regime, the break of the former regime did not adhere to the decorated in Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, they did not adhere to these criteria and criteria for selecting judges, neither expertise nor training nor dignity. I don't have that much time to talk about certain choices from that time, so the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can see it, but I know you know it very well. They only adhered to one criterion, which is, of course, DS membership, as colleagues spoke in the biographies of judges in the past term, our president of the parliamentary group Dr. Martinovic brought biographies where it was directly written that DS members were either proposed or proposed by municipal or regional DS committees. It's gone. Why do I say that? Just because our judiciary was the worst in Europe at the time, and you know it very well, and we people's MPs, that's what the European officials said at the time, because the judiciary during Gilas's reign, it was in a desperate state, that's what the assessment was, and we can say freely, and I believe that you will agree that it has been driven by unremembered scandals in the cadating and exorcising of judges, to the imbalance of criminal acts, some judges have died of injustice. This is a critical situation, which was at that time and the chaos that ruled, and some committed suicide, and five judges committed suicide, the judiciary union said, and at least 20 became ill, and died because of the re-elections that my fellow Members today, the honourable MPs, spoke of. There were exactly 837 judges and 200 deputy prosecutors left out of office at the time. And I have to say, based on the data that has been available to me for the last 7.8 years, it's been the best judges, often very professional and very decent, and that's what Gilasov and Tadic's party would have said, it was a face-to-face with the past, and that's how they explained it from the 1990s. In the election of the judges, the Gilas judiciary made the precedent that I do very often when you representatives of the judiciary come to this high house, noting that it has made one of the biggest scandals, if not the biggest scandal in the history of the world's justice, whether they choose, believe it or not, respected citizens of dead Judge Ljubisa Ristic, from Požega, for a judge. He died six months earlier, they chose him as a judge. Such chaos was in the judiciary. Look at the wonders, this is very important, Gilas VSS President Mrs. Nata Mesarovic, who was mentioned here today by the MPs here, said that all candidates were then screened for the choice of judges and that she spent 200 hours to check the candidates, which is about one month, every day of work. To this day, and I am now inviting her, because these days she is often visiting the media under the control of Dragan Gilas to explain to the citizens of Serbia and to our MPs how she had a conversation with the dead judge? Let him explain it to us. How can Mr. Djilas and his associates, scattered in smaller miniature parties explain that they chose Judge Sonja Brkic, and I must say that Nata Mesarovic, cousin Boris Tadic, and by his order that she was elected judge, and how can I explain that they chose Sonja Brkic as judge, who violated the law on judges? Look at the wonders, which is unimaginable, that at the same time she served as Judge of the Supreme Court and the duty of President of the RIK, and the Law on Judges was then explicitly prohibiting it. And not just that. Sonja Brkic then illegally took 2 million and 673 thousand dinars in RIK and everything revolved around the money, as our people would say. She refused to pay that money back. This was the work of the judiciary during Tadic, who does not come down from the media these days, under the control of Dragan Dilas, during Tadic and during Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Gilas. That this is true, we say not only, the European Commission said at the time of 2010, she wrote, quote – The reforms implemented by the government in Serbia represent special concerns, and gave such an assessment to these reforms when they fired the most professional judges. This is a quote from the book "Court Reform in Serbia 2008. – in 2012” p. 96, 97 continues in this book, quote – the re-election process of judges was non-transparent and risking independence. The reforms, carried out by the government, were like the worst possible thing, finished quote. Dear People's MPs, can you imagine the situation in which the citizens of Serbia and the judiciary were at the time? This was published by our prominent newspaper "Politika" 7.7.2012. That I don't take much time. Mr Selakovic's arrival as minister changed the situation. The judges are no longer politicians, as they were at the time, engaged in politics, and today, in the image of Judge Majic, which I will not speak of, because this is the best thing that our honourable MP Jovanovic has said today, but let me just say one sentence. Judge Majic, by acquittal of the crime-sciting Gnjilan group, freed the Cypriot rapists and the Serb murderers. That is why, believe it or not, the European Movement in Serbia has won the award and it is therefore rising, the KLA's liberating ruling on Serbs was once again massacred by Serbian Serb victims' judge Majic. I tell him that, and I'd like to come to this tall home, like my colleague Arsic said, so let's have a dialogue about it. As I said, by coming Mr Selakovic as justice minister, the situation is drastically changing for the better. It was continued during both Nela Kuburovic and current current current minister. However, it will take a lot of water to pass through the Danube to bring Serbia's judiciary to an envious level, because in the system there are justice, other judges who have not yet chosen which have no basic conditions for selecting judges, neither expertise nor dignity, nor training. If they didn't have the expertise or the dignity of not only the judge but also the lawyers, I'll give you an example. The lawyer, Srdjan Popovic, had no dignity. Pay attention, honourable MPs. You know what he said, what that man was doing? In 1993, he signed a document along with Margaret Thatcher, with Mirko Kovac, and with some of the obscenities they asked for our country to be bombed. Not just that. The man described Serbia as "anus mundi", and I have to translate it for the sake of the citizens, and that is a Latin saying, as "asshole of the world". So he said Serbs are what's in the anus, which means in the asshole. That's not patriotism, Mr. Marinkovic, because you said that every judge should be a patriot, and that's true, and one part of the lawyers and judges really didn't have it. I must say, at the beginning of the reform carried out by Djilas, Jeremic and Tadic in 2008, the number of pending cases was 780,000, and in 2012, behold, when the reform ended instead of reducing, it increased to three million. Now, that's the reform they've been carrying out, Mr. President. That number, I must say, was cut in half by the arrival of SNS in 2019, at a million and 500. They all worked to destroy the judiciary. That was what the judiciary looked like during Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, Boris Tadic. They worked harder against courts and citizens than for courts and citizens. How did their judiciary work? I'm going to set an example now. I have to say, they've been doing everything politically. In the case of one of the presidents of the political party, today the current one, which is Sasa Radulovic, who repeatedly attacks Serbian Progressive Party MPs and the president of the Republic, is his permanent topic. To tell the citizens who Sasa Radulovic is, called the bankruptcy king. As a bankruptcy manager, he installed millions of bookkeeping jobs for his wife's company. That's that Sasa Radulovic. In 2011, he was fined 100,000 dinars. The anti-vaxer, Sasa Radulovic, paid off the money from the bankruptcy table, whom he wanted and what he wanted, without the court's consent and without the consent of the Serbian state. Sasa Radulovic has also been punished by the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, and Crime has also been declared by the Commercial Court in Belgrade, who has been relieved of his duties as a bankruptcy manager. This is the bankruptcy king, Sasa Radulovic, and today he deals with politics. As the bankruptcy manager of the construction company New highway in 2011, a million-dollar accounting job, do you know who he gave it to? He gave it to a company called E Business Service. Do you know whose company it is, respected citizens? It was registered to his wife in which Radulovic was co-owner. When he became a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, he never gave up the position of bankruptcy director, in as many as 14 enterprises. That's why, not me, journalists often call it me that I called him, me and Marian Risticevic, the bankruptcy king, but the journalists called him the bankruptcy king. This shows his attitude towards the state, and today he calls the president of the state, on a daily basis, Alexander Vukic. Just two more, three sentences, to read the headlines from that time in one respected list. Thus, on April 14, 2011, a prominent newspaper published the title: Police comb the king of bankruptcy. “ Here they are, the journalists, not my little one. Also, April 16, 2011: “The bankruptcy king has eaten the sugars. “ On May 31, 2016, the headline: “Radulovic, bruko, how many millions did you steal? “ Radulović, Djilas, Tadic and Jeremic should not deal with politics. Politics should be dealt with by honest people, not by stragglers, not by gnomes, not by lesbians, as they are. Finally, while our President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, daily respected citizens, you are eyewitnesses, restores Serbia's international reputation by implementing peace policy, our country's security policy, a policy of accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia and the health policy of all our citizens, and in the environment, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Sasa Radulovic muds our country. Here, Sasa Radulovic recently cursing the state of Serbia and Serbian citizens, spending money robbed from the pockets of respected Serbian citizens. I believe the D.A. is still doing his job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5220	Thank you. Next is the National MP of Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5221	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Hardisic, dear Mr. Milosevic, dear fellow Members of the People and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is a legal state and in 2012 faith in institutions was restored. The institution's faith was restored thanks to the political changes we had in 2012, and we know very well what was going on in the Serbian judiciary until 2012, which is also well known here by the President of the High Council of the judiciary, Mr Dragomir Milojevic. We had a catastrophic reform of the judiciary in 2009 with all our consequences. In 2012, when political changes occurred, we encountered maltenes on a completely decomposed judiciary. Fortunately, soon the then president of the Supreme Cassation Court, Mrs. Nata Mesarovic, who was celebrated not only for the disastrous reform of the judiciary, along with her partners, which was spoken of by my dear colleagues, such as Snezana Malovic, Sloban Homen, Boška Ristic, who was here head of the Justice Committee, Dusan Petrovic and their associates, was celebrated for entering, can be said freely, as a world example that she should not only act as Supreme Court President, but also as the president of the Judicial Council when it comes to the verdict on the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. She made it clear to the public, the millionth audience, that she acted as part of the judiciary when she said - I just received a verdict. So, not “we just reached a verdict as a court, ” but“ I just got a verdict. ” Now, that “I received a verdict” was so in the sea of other cases where the yellow judges participated. When I say yellow judges, I mean those judges who have worked exclusively in the interest of the Democratic Party and by order of Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, who wants to be president of Serbia again, only has one big problem -- not the people. They worked on the orders of Vuk Jeremic, Snezana Malovic and other other yellow officials of the Democratic Party who not only destroyed Serbia's judiciary, but also destroyed the entire state. But fortunately, in 2012, I repeat again, these changes happened and today the situation in the Serbian judiciary is not ideal, but it is far better than in 2012 and year by year we have progress. Unfortunately, we have phenomena in the Serbian judiciary such as Judge Majic, which my colleague Milenko Jovanovic spoke great of, who said everything about him to be said about both the judge and the man and as someone working against the state of Serbia. Happiness is here for all of us here and you from the High Council of the Judiciary that these judges are in the minority compared to most honorable and honorable judges, who choose as they should be chosen. Judges are no longer elected at meetings of municipal committees of certain political parties, as we had the case in 2009 and 2010, when they were elected at the meetings of the DS Municipal Committee. That time has passed. That time has passed and the people are happy that time has passed. Such a reform of the judiciary was punished by the people in the 2012 elections, and what the people think of Alexander Vukic as the first vice president, later as prime minister, and then as president of the Republic of Serbia, it was seen in the elections. The people are the real reforms of the judiciary that took place in 2012 and 2013, where professionalism, objectivity and expertise were put first, in the elections also showed 2014 and 2016, and 2107, 2018 and 2020, and I am convinced that the people will provide full support to the current government and the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the elections we expect next year. As regards the decision on the election of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Mrs Jasmina Vasovic, as MP of the list Aleksandar Vukic – I can only say for our children that I support this decision to make Mrs Vasovic the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I read her biography in detail. Her biography is in favour of this, and I hope that as you, Mr Milojevic, and your successor, Mrs Jasmina Vasovic, will continue our judiciary, along with her associates, to lead in the right way, through justice, through justice and justice, as in all developed countries in the world. We also have an alternative to that road, and that is this thieving path of Dragan Gilas. Dragan Gilas is in a great panic, I must tell you, because he knows very well that he is now being targeted not by us, but by competent institutions, competent judicial institutions. He will have to answer for his over 68m dollars or euros, however, found at 53 accounts in 17 countries around the world. So no one can kidnap from the citizens of Serbia without answering the law. No one can make a catastrophic reform of the judiciary without answering in front of the people. Those who made a catastrophic reform of the judiciary, they responded to the people and lost the elections in both 2012 and 2014 and all those from the yellow coalition were later not only lost the elections, but remained below the censorship. I must state at the end of my presentation one of the examples where the judicial institutions had one warning that they had to do their job. This is an example of the hunger strike for our parliamentary group president Dr Alexander Martinovic and our ancient MPs Sandra Christmas. They had to strike hunger to ensure that the competent judicial institutions acted properly and did their job after the masculine beating and attempted murder of Marijan Risticevic. I hope that such phenomena will no longer occur and that all those who work both in the prosecution and in courts will do their professional work and thus make a major contribution to strengthen our state of Serbia year by year and to help the state fight the mafia, which is successfully led by President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5222	Thank you. There's a word from MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5223	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Milojevic, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, is certainly today's discussion on who knows which time has proved that this Parliament has taken every topic seriously. When we talk about a candidate for President of the Supreme Cassation Court, there are not many decisions and discussions that attract so much public attention and that are so important. I think that in the last few hours we could hear all the reasons for both the biography and the career of the mentioned candidate, but we were also able to hear the problems that citizens face when it comes to the judiciary and what expectations, above all, Serbian citizens when we talk about justice. There is no doubt that I, as my colleagues from the Legislative Group, will support this proposal for our children, but I will not focus my exposure in the direction where the number of fellow Members has gone and I will not look too much at the man whose last name we have heard here many times, and it is a symbol of double arches. It's about Mr. Majic. Before I engage in my further exposure, I just want, as many of my colleagues, to congratulate the National Day of the Roma and to wish in the spirit of that to every representative of them that no girl of Roma nationality should ever again be covered and disgraced by the judgment that Majic made. I will not go in that direction for the simple reason that I think that this man was all clear and heard and seen in the past period and that, if someone was not familiar enough with the character and part of that man, only if he followed today's Assembly could he see what kind of man he was dealing with and how important he is to criticise and make any accusations of someone's account or himself as some kind of serious factor. What concerns me as a MP is the fact that he's doing this in thought, that he's working in agreement with someone, but he's also working on the command of one part of the former regime and representatives of the DS regime, so you can see him in the most beautiful light in the media that is directly controlled by Dragan Gilas. When you take all this into account, you can't help but recall those catastrophic reforms of the judiciary, the judiciary that people were talking about here, where in one day more than a thousand people were out of a job. You can't help but wonder how ready Dragan Gilas is to go in his sick desire and ambition to return to power. When we talk about this, today's example best shows how difficult Jasmine Vasovic will be, I am convinced that we will choose her today, how difficult it will be for her to perform that function. For the simple reason that anyone in our country who is doing his job today, defends and represents the interests of Serbian citizens, works under the law can be subject to the criminal charges of Dragan Gilas and the people who support him or are in his nearest environment. What's this about? So this precedent, not that it didn't see Serbia, but that it didn't see the world. In fact, Dragan Gilas has today expanded his criminal charges for falsifying documents. Dragan Djilas, about seven days ago, filed criminal charges against Aleksandar Vukic, Vladka Malovic, Siniši Mala, journalist of the daily newspaper "News" only because they provided information that the man owned more than five million dollars in Mauritius, and it was not little for him to hide in this cowardly way from the truth and avoid the answer to a simple question. Don't lie to all of us for days, as the people would say, but answer the question whether you have these 68 million euros or not. Playing with terms, trying to make fun of everything that is evidence against him and his inaction while he was in power trying to mask not for decades but hundreds of criminal charges. Today, in that step, he went even further. So today, the criminal application was extended and included by the director of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering Zeljko Radovanovic. So, Dragan Gilas also filed a criminal report against a man who only enforces the law and deals with the interest of the Serbian state, protects the interests of Serbian citizens. Now the most normal question is raised -- what kind of pressure is this on state institutions, and what does this mean when a former mayor, a former director of some office, a minister in the DS regime, is unable to explain to him where 68m euros in various accounts per white world, is filing criminal charges against a man who only does his job? What's next? Is it next he'll file a criminal charges if he, as he's already attacked students on the street, hits someone? Wait, if a police officer respects the law and tries to write him up, will he also file a criminal charges against him? Let's not forget, while he was some kind of factor in the state, as he called himself, he threatened to lose his job just because he stopped him, because this guy overstepped his speed. How long does that go, and how long does this insolence of Dragan Gilas and the ossional behavior go? Is he now protected by some kind of eagle that none of us sees, so he has the right to do whatever he wants and say whatever he wants and never to answer for any of it? What message is being sent to the citizens of Serbia in this way? So, if you're doing your job and by any chance you're touching something that has something to do with Dragan Gilas, you're facing criminal charges. This is not remembered, not in Serbia, but in Europe and the whole world. You won't find something like this anywhere, and this is just a feature of the behavior of a man who, out of his misery, great wealth and a painful desire to return to his chair, knows no more how to defend himself, no more steps to take to convince the citizens of Serbia that he is not a tycoon. But Serbian citizens have no short memory. Serbian citizens remember very well that while they were barely making ends meet, people said, his empire was only growing. He only got richer, and the citizens of Serbia only existed from day to day more and more poorer. If we're talking about justice, and if we're talking about what every citizen needs to be thinking about when someone damages him, we can't not put ourselves in the skin of a man who's rightfully asking himself -- how is it possible that while I was working for 15,000 dinars or 20,000 dinars, while DS ruled, while Dragan Gilas was all and everyone in this country, his companies were making 619 million euros, and he was from an incompetent entrepreneur, a failed gum dealer and some failed window washer came to the position that one of the richest people in this part of Europe? The citizens rightly get angry and ask themselves, "Why hasn't there been any action against him so far?" What are you waiting for? I think the answers of Serbian citizens could have been heard in a discussion of previous fellow MPs. After that reform, the only parameter you'll be the judge was whether or not you have an DS membership card. I was talking here, but it's not burning, and I repeat that the qualifications for one judge were what he was in JUL, so he changed his mind, he made up his mind, but his wife's a DS official, the other one likes to steal, but he can keep himself under control, vote for DS, he's still a third subject to manipulation, but it doesn't matter, we'll keep him under control. All these proposals went to one piece of paper where in the lower left corner was the seal of the DS municipal board, depending on the city where the decision was made, and in the lower right corner the seal of the municipality or the city in question. Then you expect the judges elected to their party bodies to initiate any proceedings against Dragan Gilas and therefore the mistrust of the citizens... I apologize to my colleagues. If I disturb them with my discussion, I'll take a break, and they'll end up with their own obstacles. If that's any problem, I'll take a break. Thank you. So citizens' mistrust didn't just come out. Confidence in the judicial authorities, the court didn't come yesterday. It came about simply because citizens realized that if you're part of DS, you have an DS membership card, you're protected, and that's why citizens lost confidence in both the court and the prosecution and the judges, generally in the entire judiciary. Fortunately, in 2012 or 2013, when there was a change, that confidence began to return to the court, it began to restore confidence in the judiciary, but all this means is that we only have a lot of room to work as a society, we still have room to move forward and move forward, we have more space to show in concrete works how much we care about both the citizens of Serbia and Serbia, in general. Examples like Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and other people representing the former DS regime are numerous and we can meet with them from day to day. Any field of society that you can look into, you'll see a little bit more about what crime you're working on, any sphere of society that it's about. It's just amazing how we managed to survive as a country by 2012, because all the pores of society have been limited to crime, corruption and only to the personal wealth of people who are in power or close to power. It is sad that today they present themselves to us as people who care about Serbia, who care about the Serbian people, as they like to say, wherever they live. It's sad and hypocritical, because everyone knows that they only care about their own pockets, about another million euros in their pocket or accounts in the white world. In addition to that, I have checked twice what I read today, but not to mention that I invented something, there is evidence here, and they can all check on their Twitter accounts - Janko Veselinović, one of the mercenaries Dragan Gilas, to remind you that it is the man who, in the period of those "One out of five million" torches from Paris after winning the World Cup in football, shared it on his social networks and represented it as a baklad from Belgrade, a man who has been caught more than 20 times in any lies, has come forward today, I suppose from a naked hatred to all who at least once spoke with praise about President Aleksandar Vukic or Serbia's politics, says the following - sincere joy over the election of Benjamin Karic at the place of the mayor of Sarajevo. Sarajevo had a chance to become a city of all and European cities. A new hope for this part of the Balkans. Also to clean up the various Izetbegovics, Dodiks and other matchmakers. I absolutely don't want to look back or meddle in any way in the choice of who will lead the city of Sarajevo, with all due respect and these ladies, all congratulations on the election, but what is the issue here? Serbian citizens need to know that. None of the Serb representatives will be at those functions they will decide in Sarajevo. Anja Margetic was elected from the ranks of the Croatian people and Haris Bašić from the Bosniak order. The Serbs, as you can see, are not here. And if you care about Serbs, Serbia, the interests of the Serbian people, wherever they are, at least you have to, if you don't want to worry or publicly criticize something, even if you stay restrained and think that the Serbian people there will feel today when they know they won't have a representative in that part of power. What is much more important to point out here – where do you get the right to call the representative, the legitimate representative of the Serb people in BiH, Dodik, a matchmaker? Why are you doing this, why are you setting foot on the Serbian people? Why are you doing this? You only had words of praise about Dodik, it seems to me, when he performed at the DS myths, if I'm not mistaken. You supported him, you praised him. He was returning it to you. How did we get to know him as a matchmaker now? Why is it that anyone who in this country or outside our country's borders says a single nice word about Serbia, about the politics of Alexander Vukic, SNS, the Government of Serbia, if anyone praises something that happens in our country today is immediately a recipient, a bot, a fool, a credential or I don't know what. These things are absolutely inadmissible and these things best paint, show and prove how much hatred has affected these people and how blindly they want to return to power at all costs. What's most important to us, and I think we'll have a chance to discuss next week, personally I, something more, you can tell any lies, untrues, nebuloses, you can talk about all of us, you can target us and you can insult us in any way, but you can hide the results that the Serbian government achieves and hide what has been done since coming to the power of the SNS, led by President Alexander Vukic, not 10, but 100 times more than you've done in 12 years of your regime, you won't be able to erase and reduce it in any way. These messages and all that we're saying today, as much as anyone seems to have nothing to do with the subject of the agenda, and how it does, because I think as many of us as we have in this House, there's not enough of us to react to every lie that they bring out on a daily basis. I don't give a shit personally that everyone's trying to tell us MPs now, to determine what we're going to say and how we're going to say and what we have the right to talk about, which we don't have the right to talk about. What do you want from us? To bind both our hands and our legs, make a tape across our mouths so that you can talk and muddle us all here and satanicize us and attack the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Alexander Vukic and everything we do unconsciously, would you not try to pick out a cheap political point for yourself? To your great disappointment, I must tell you that this business has nothing to do with it. We will always fight for the interests of Serbia's citizens above all. We'll fight for the better of each of them tomorrow, because it's past the times when citizens in our country haven't seen the perspective, when they haven't seen the next week, because they didn't know if they were going to receive a salary or a pension, when they didn't know if they were going to lose their jobs just because they had some kind of privatization decided that some brother, friend, friend, friend, tycoon would take the company or factory. It's been a while since 500,000 people lost their jobs just because you could have wanted it that way. That's why the citizens made it clear to you in the last elections that you are just a political past, whatever, but it is important that you are a political past and that Serbia will never return to those times. For the very end, I want to wish candidate Jasmina Vasovic a lot of success and, above all, to wish her a lot of courage. The count against the mafia and organised crime, which has announced and promised President Aleksandar Vukic, is happening from day to day. And the announcements by Minister Vulin that there will now be records in all 150 municipalities dealing with it, whose criminal activity only gives citizens confidence and once again proves that what SNS says, what Aleksandar Vucic's president promises, is fulfilled and implemented. It will take a lot of courage for these things too, but it will take a lot of courage and some human desire to endure the pressures they will be exposed to, not from these criminals alone, but from people who claim to return to power and continue where they left off, which is the additional wealth and charge of their accounts, as Dragan Gilas did with 68m euros, over 50 accounts in 17 different countries. I wish her a lot of success. I wish her much happiness and that she works in the best interests of the citizens of Serbia and our Serbia because we have no other country, and we want our children to stay here, to live, to work and to make them come true. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5224	Thank you. The next is MP Zoran Tomic. Further information, that the remaining time for your parliamentary group is seven minutes and 44 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5225	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we had the opportunity to hear a very good and quality discussion, and when it comes to the election of the new President of the Cassation Court, Jasmina Vasovic. Absolutely, as far as her biography and all the recommendations are concerned, it is clear to us that it is indeed the right candidate for the right position and that I am joining absolutely the appeal and colleagues of Alexander, who wished her happiness, and I also want her a lot of success in her work, because absolutely what we should do next is that this trust that was built when it comes to Serbia's judiciary and restoring the trust that took place in 2012, to continue to be continued and to continue by doing its job in the letter of law and the way the Law on Judges speaks, which is to implement the laws that have been passed in this House and to interpret them correctly, but also giving feedback in order to further improve these legal solutions. We had the opportunity to hear here from the speakers and the famous catastrophic reform of the 2009 judiciary, which is actually clear evidence that the yellow tycoons at the time had the desire to absolutely take all three branches of power. For what? Here, we see exactly why, because it would make it impossible for the legislative authority and for prosecutors and investigators to do their jobs, and to actually allow citizens' money to get out of the Republic of Serbia and place it in their accounts. So far, we've seen that so far this figure is 54 accounts for 17 destinations around the world, which is exotic, which is unexpected, and the question is what is this number? But we leave it to the competent state authorities to do so and to give the citizens of Serbia who deserve it, to see where that money was spent. I'm sure it's a lot, a lot more than 68 million that's spoken of. During that period, they managed to maltene, for a period of one year, to make it impossible for the judiciary to do its job and that the legal solutions they adopted were not implemented. We had the opportunity to hear from colleagues from Arsic and how the judges were then elected, how the people in the Supreme Cassation Court were elected and that they did not respect those regulations. I'm just going to give the information that out of 2,400 judges who were then under fire and re-election, they managed to introduce 870 of their judges, and we've heard that the basic criteria were either DS membership or someone's recommendation to be close to DS, so that they could meet their function. The reform has cost us 44m euros so far. It is precisely because these people, past the law, have been prevented from doing their job, and of course, they have sought justice and compensation has been done, compensation has been made from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and not for sure by Dragan Gilas and other tycoons who brought their money out of the Republic of Serbia and successfully fertilised in those positions. What I'm also saying is that trust in the judiciary could grow, judges, as I said, have to do their job in accordance with the law prescribed. The law clearly states in Article 30 that the judge must not be a member of the political party, nor act politically in any other way. Here we had the opportunity to hear about Judge Majic, what he was doing, and just before the start of the speech we saw the last tweet in which he actually boasted that he was paying attention to him. Of course, it is dedicated, because we, as MPs, are dealing with the issue and we want to point out what is bad, which is that absolutely judges should not deal with politics, that they should respect the laws that are ahead of them, that they do their work with honor and in accordance with the oath they have made. We also had opportunities in the previous period, i.e. 2016 and 2017 to see how some people who were elected to public functions, these functions abuse themselves, to promote themselves politically and to present themselves to the citizens as an alternative. It always happened at the end, specifically for example. Sasa Jankovic, who says the people wanted him to enter politics. How did the people want it? Well, by expressing his political views when he was a Manchester, in fact, while performing a function where he shouldn't have acted politically and should not have been involved in politics. In the end, we saw, of course, in the presidential elections, which is the support he received. Finally, we saw that he also formed a group of political parties in which only his group of citizens, as already registered, were members. And finally, his political action was reduced to talking through a megaphone with the door, or he was talking to himself. It is exactly what we can see from the statements that Judge Majic gives in interviews, in particular, and what his distinguished colleague Arsic quoted, which is that he just wants to impose himself as some new alternative, as a new solution and persistently on the answers of the journalists who asked him – – would you enter politics, he says – yes, the citizens are asking for it, they want it. So, there's a rerun of what we could have done in 2016 in 2017. Now I'm going to give you one piece of information, and we were talking about the opposition not knowing which candidate they're going to choose, that they've decided on the online choice of candidates. Currently, some 77 candidates are in the online survey they are doing. In particular, Judge Majic has the support of only 1.54% of the vote in the poll. So if he wants to win this poll, and he's fat behind, he's gonna have to try a lot harder, and he's gonna have to step down from the judge's office and show that he's a man of his word, not actually trying to abuse his position. I feel free to say that I am sure, as my colleagues have said, that this is not an independent operation, that this is actually just an extended arm of exactly those, specifically Dragan Gilas, which is being defended by attacks from something that is factual, which has been proven to have these 54 accounts. As counterpart Milenko Jovanovic said, the man in his lawsuit never said that he didn't have those bills. He just said that there was no adequate evidence, that the papers were not properly appointed. You know, that famous sports say - attack is the best defense, in this case we understand that it defends itself, but unsuccessfully. The competent state authorities are doing their job, the judiciary is doing their job, because the judiciary is really in relation to the period when he and his associates were in power, it is independent and it will be even more effective, because people who come to the key positions, who will have the task of further improving the work of the judiciary will do so, and I am sure that Mrs Jasmina Vasovic will do this job right and that in the day of voting, we will all be sure to support her unanimously and give her full support that this job works in the way that she should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5226	Thank you. Since there's 21 more seconds, let me say we're running out of time. I'm asking if any of the presidents or authorised representatives want a word or a proposal? The word of the messenger of the people, Milenko Jovanov.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5227	We have heard arguments today throughout the debate for, and we have not heard any arguments against the election of the proposed candidate. I also followed the media today who closely followed today's session, and they did not make any arguments against the election of today's candidate. The only argument left to stand by Djilas's Alliance for Justice, therefore, by Judge Majic, who is in this interview, who says the most important argument against the choice of candidate Vasovic is that she knows the president of the Republic. So, not that there's some kind of influence, not that there's some kind of connection, but because he knows him. This is so pointless and stupid that it's obvious the T-shirt I came up with. Finally, since the tycoon media has been closely following the work of the Assembly today and recording how we speak and what we are talking about, I want to thank them from the heart for the attention they have shown us and welcome them all to the traditional folk greetings – hey, hey, Gilas, give back the money to thieves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5228	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? Mr. Vujadinović reporting. You have 21 seconds, but if you want, it's no problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5229	President, it will certainly be enough of those 21 seconds to congratulate the Roma community today's International Roma Day. These are people who have always been on Serbia's side through history, as Serbia has always been on the side of those who have kept it. History has shown that it was the Roma who were always with the Serbian people, such as the Serbian people today. That'll be enough for these 21 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-08-0.u5230	I must commend you, indeed. You can see it can be said in 25 seconds. On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. I thank Mr. Milojevic for his presence. According to Article 87(5), I hereby order Thursday, April 8, 2021, starting at 18:00 and 20 minutes, as a day for voting on the agenda of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. As you know, according to Article 88(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 177 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. The first and only item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Casation Court. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 12, the Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, by majority of the votes of all MPs, elects the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 185, for – 185. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Allow me to congratulate Jasmina Vasovic on behalf of the Members of the People's Parliament on my behalf in the election for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and to wish her much success in her work. Please wait, I have some information to tell you. Since we elected the President, or President of the Supreme Cassation Court, to convene a special session that will be held on Tuesday, April 13 at 10.00 p.m., at which the President of the Supreme Cassation Court will be elected before the National Assembly, you will be delivered in a letter from the Secretary-General. After that, we'll have two more sessions next week. So, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. On the agenda will be our election staff issues, related to the selection of judges and changes in the membership of committee members, delegations. On Thursday, there will be a session to discuss energy and mining laws, with which, depending on whether there are amendments or no amendments, they will see when the vote will be, whether it will be on Thursday. But we don't plan too far. Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, will schedule for next Friday, April 16th, at 10.00h, the session of her committee. This morning, I had the Prime Minister with the minister of justice and the chairman of our committee and the chairman of the Justice Committee, Vladimir Djukanovic. We agreed to proceed with procedures concerning constitutional changes, i.e. the opening of dialogue and the debate on all this, given the need to hear the opinions of all stakeholders. At that session, the committee will be invited, with the exception of the proposing representatives, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the leadership of the National Assembly, but also the heads of parliamentary groups and the chairman of all committees in the National Assembly. Because of the planning of your activities and the importance of this topic, which will be current in the coming months, I wanted you to have that information that was agreed on today. I hereby conclude the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021.
