ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3880	I thank the President of the Assembly. Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I will ask a few questions concerning a particularly large number of people. A specific question would be the competent Ministry of Combat Affairs, for the people who were involved in the war, for all those who defended this country. Otherwise, for the past twenty days, maybe even a month in the paper has been a prominent problem for one of our warlords who was in the military and immediately set out to defend our country. It is usually 1978, from Srljig, a village near Svrlig, the village of Crnoljevica. His name is Dragan Nikolic. I'm gonna have to say a few things about him. I say that because of him and because of many other such people who were involved in the war that defended our country, who were in battle and wounded, had injuries, and now as time goes, after twenty and a few years after the war, these people, and if they have a certain degree of disability, already old, have the need to put more attention on them. By the way, Dragan Nikolic has been on the first day in the fight with the Cypriots in Kosovo, in Kosaram. He's been here since day one, and he's been wounded, and then he's been in the hospital in Djakovica, and then at the hospital in Nis where he was treated. After the war ended, he had problems, so-called. After the war problems, the psychological problems, where he was in a very difficult situation. In the meantime, in 1999, he got married, got a daughter, did a little bit of work, but as time went by, he had a year and a half ago had two strokes, and now he's in a situation where there's no disability, and there's not one degree of disability because he didn't even ask for it. Now that the worst has happened, when he can't move anymore, he can't function, his daughter and his brother are helping him. The local self-government, the Ministry of Labour, also joined the Serbian Army, was involved after appeals and calls. I think he's at the Gambigrad spa right now. That's where he's being treated. He's been here three months, but because he doesn't have any health insurance, he doesn't have any insurance, he's got big problems, and he needs help. First of all, will my question – will it be possible for the competent ministry to provide conditions for such people who were involved in the war, who defended the country, who have certain injuries and have no right to be treated? They're not recognized in the health system. How can we help such people? In particular, one of them is Dragan Nikolic, and there are other such people in Serbia who have problems. So far, they have not had the need to seek help, but as the years go by, they need help. We must systematically find a solution for these fighters, for these people, because in this way we will give attention, give confidence, because our man has always been for defending the country, but that's why we as people, as a state, have to find opportunities to give them more attention and financial and whatever, so that they can overcome what they couldn't do alone. We as a state are obliged to do so and I call on the competent ministry to address the problem of Dragan Nikolic, who is now in a very difficult situation, is in the spa for treatment. But all that's done is done without some papers. The papers are now being completed for him, his status is being resolved to gain a certain degree of disability and together through the military, through the competent Ministry of Combat Affairs, he must be provided to heal himself and to live, to wait for him to marry his daughter, to have grandchildren, because that is the goal for all of us and all of us. Once again, I expect that we will solve the problem of Dragan Nikolic and all of our fighters who have been involved in the war, whether in Kosharam, whether elsewhere, and not recognized in the health system, because someone has not been injured and is not recognized for it. One question, that's what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3881	There's no other question, since it's been five minutes, twice. Let me warn you, there's nothing for me to decide now. Five minutes for asking questions, so this isn't the classic type of asking questions like when the government comes. Just five minutes. If you mean minority parties, there's no privilege. Anyway, five minutes and five minutes to get in. When it comes to asking a question to the government, you have the right to question twice, and in the end, are you satisfied. I'd ask everyone to stick to that. The word has a folk MP, Zagorka Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3882	Dear President of the National Assembly, dear colleagues. I refer the question to the Serbian government. Before that, in the context of the questions I would like to ask, I would refer to the president of our Egyptian parliamentary group. JS President Dragan Markovic is on an official visit to Egypt. From Hurgada, and from talks by the president of the JS and the governor of the Red Sea region, Mr Amr Hanafi, the public could hear a very clear message from this Egyptian official that it does not appear anywhere in official documents that Egypt has recognised the false state of Kosovo. Since the institutions of this fake state have listed Egypt as countries that have recognised their independence, JS President urged Egypt to officially issue a statement denying recognition. Visits to various delegations visited by the president of JS by Egypt date back to 2018. Also, senior economic political delegations from Egypt visited Serbia on several occasions for Mr Dragan Markovic's initiative. The president of our parliamentary group has held meetings at the highest level in the friendly state of Egypt in the last three years. He encouraged and urged the production of acts to regulate the export of Serbian agricultural products, primarily fruit and meat to this country. The president is also the business council of Egypt from Serbia. The diplomatic relations between Serbia and Egypt are very high. There are objective potentials to boost the investment of our two countries. In 2018, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce submitted an initiative to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications to adopt a free trade agreement with Egypt that will allow very high customs rates to be no longer an obstacle to improving our two countries' economic co-operation. My question to the Serbian government is – is this agreement planned recently? Egypt is the most human Arab country in the world and the area on which Egypt appears to be the 30th country in the world by the size of the territory. We in Unity Serbia recognise Egypt as our country's future strategic partner in trade and tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3883	Thank you. I would just like to say, what Zagorka just said about Egypt, given that I was the foreign minister in the previous term, is exactly what was announced, which is that in the last days of the Morsi government, at his request was the government's spokesman, since the foreign minister did not want to sign it, said Egypt has recognised Kosovo. However, no formal and written decisions exist. I repeatedly asked Minister Šukri and he when he was last visiting here and when we talked, he publicly said they do not really want to withdraw recognition, nor to enter all these issues, but they have not voted for Kosovo anywhere in international organisations since 2015. Practically, those are his words, you could say it's a frozen confession. So it is not a country that has withdrawn Kosovo's recognition, but no longer votes for Kosovo. So, I think that's very important, too. Of course, we would love to see them withdraw their confession, because it's obvious that it was done in the last days of power, because after that there was a change of government. That's what I know from that earlier period. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3884	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Vice-Presidents, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Dukes' Union of Hungarians, Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Udovic. The theme is sports, and it refers to the development of a national strategy for sport development. The previous government in August 2019 formed a working group tasked with developing a new sports strategy for our country for the period from 2020 to 2030. The members of this task force, more than 30 members, are from various ministries and competent institutions, from international organisations, from the civil sphere and of course from the media. They were tasked with developing a national strategy for sport development within six months of the formation of this task force. This task force has had several meetings, but unfortunately it has not come to the conclusion of the task. We need to know that our last strategy was made from 2014 to 2018. So, it's four years, it's four years, you could say -- that's one Olympic cycle, about the deadline. This new strategy should be developed for ten years. So it's a newspaper, it's a positive newspaper, and this period is two and a half Olympic cycles. It is also good for sport, for the development of sports and for the development of athletes themselves. Like I said, we don't know how far they got with this mission. The question is, is this working group still working, is there a new working group for the development of a national sports strategy? If so, then what is the deadline for drawing up this strategy and for what period is this new sports strategy? Why is it important to develop a national sports strategy? As we know, here in this strategy, basic priority goals are given, such as the development of sports of children and youth, as well as school sports, then the development of recreational sport, so that as many of our citizens as possible will be involved in sports, development and improvement of top sports, development and improvement of sports infrastructure itself. These national or previous national strategies are the basis for the creation of strategies for our national sports alliances, border sports alliances, cities and local self-governments. Local self-government, by law, after the adoption of a national sports strategy, must bring their strategies in a year. So, since the end of the published national sports strategy, they've had a year to make it. Because what's the problem? In local self-government, the basis of funding for sport itself is a sports strategy and local self-government. It is important to know that there are 87 national sports alliances in Serbia. We have knowledge that some sports alliances have begun to develop their strategies for ten years. This is positive because in what we know the newspaper is that now younger athletes have in mind, that these young, talented athletes of 14 and 15 years are as a target group, because these athletes for the next ten years will make our country a national team at international competitions, such as the Balkan Championships, Mediterranean Championships, European Championships or World Championships and, of course, the Olympic Games. (President: I just have to warn you to finish. Two more sentences. Every country is proud and every athlete is proud of the medals won in these international competitions, as of course at the Olympics now held in Tokyo, in 2028 in Los Angeles, and in 2032 it is not yet known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3885	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3886	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I would like to refer my question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These days, we are facing numerous inadmissible statements from officials of certain countries of our region and attacks on our country's territorial integrity and sovereignty. A few days ago, we also had statements from one of the former ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia and MPs once in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that called for an open uprising in the Raška region, thus acting both against the constitution and against the law. His actions are aimed at lobbying for the separatist interests of Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija and the Albanianisation project of this part of the territory, with the desire to join a false state of Kosovo. I've already talked about this in this room, but it's important that we remind ourselves of these events, because unfortunately the continuity of these attacks on Serbia continues. Yesterday we faced new attacks and aspirations towards certain parts of our territory, it seems to us, from the SPS parliamentary group, almost orchestrated and today almost all the media write about it. It concerns unacceptable statements by Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic first, but also Deputy Prime Minister Bulgaria and Bulgarian Defence Minister Krasimir Karakacanov. Milo Djukanovic does not stop provoking Serbia with his statements. The last in a series is the one accusing Belgrade of working on a big Serbia project based in Montenegro, according to him. Djukanovic continues to go in his statements and accusations and does not give up on the SPC attack. Djukanovic is talking about the alleged, fostering the policy of the 1990s, and the centre of Serbia's grand-state plans is Montenegro. It seems to us that he is treating his internal political conflicts and failures just by attacking Serbia, attacking the Serbian people, in order to gain the favor of some more political circles, which are not favoured by Serbia, not to mention his false recognition of Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, or false recognition of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo. On the other hand, the attacks came from neighbouring Bulgaria, and this from Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov, who goes even further by presenting Nis and Vranje as components of Bulgarian territory on his Facebook profile as a card for March 8th. The concept of Bulgaria's great is not new, but it seems to me that it dates back to the 19th century. This is not the only way for a senior official of Bulgaria's neighbouring countries to make scandalous statements, as he called Serbia and Serbs a month ago, I will remind you of the occupations of northern Macedonia. In the context of a series of political attacks on Serbia and its territorial integrity and sovereignty, our issue today I would like to refer to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Ana Brnabic - whether the government of the Republic of Serbia analyses such performances by representatives of neighbouring countries and does it plan to take some diplomatic action in relation to such diplomatic precedents, I would say, officials of neighbouring countries that deeply insult the Republic of Serbia, violate good neighbourly relations, diplomatic relations and regional co-operation, which was never the interest of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3887	Thank you. National MP Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3888	Dear President, honourable MPs, my theme is property tax. I speak directly to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local Self-Government. Why? Because some things are misread in practical life. The amount of tax on property depends not only on the price of a square meter. The tax on property depends on two sizes, so the price per square meter and the tax rate. To say that the property tax has been increased because the price per square metre has increased, it is not enough, it is just necessary. The tax rate goes from 0-0.4%, so greater than zero and less than or equal to 0.4%. So when the property tax is increased there is a possibility that even if the price per square meter is higher, the tax is equal to or lower, if that rate is reduced by 0.4%. So every argument without interference at that tax rate isn't enough. On the other hand, this revenue is the original income of local self-government. This is the largest item in that part, the original income by municipalities and cities would have to be bigger, and how it will increase not to increase individual debt, because we cannot only increase it constantly and bear the burden of one. So those citizens who don't pay that tax must be included. These citizens in every municipality in every city exist. Local self-government, i.e. the Ministry of Local Self-Government, must assess what money each municipality must, each city will achieve in its budget, to make efforts, to provide new bonds. If we don't do this, and if we keep increasing this, we're simply going to abuse and unnecessarily burden the citizens. The question arises at these times is whether this is an increase that has been made almost in all cities and municipalities whether it was necessary when we are simultaneously giving financial assistance to citizens because citizens are in a difficult situation because of this epidemiological situation. Another very important thing, I'm talking to the Ministry of Local Self-Government, and I need citizens to get real estate tax solutions for 2021. Those solutions, depending on the municipality, will reach the city by May, June of the month. I propose, and I think it is very important that this solution contains information on what is the condition of that obligation for every citizen. Does a citizen owe some money? Most of the time, it's a small amount a citizen doesn't know about. A lot of people will say, so they can do it by electronic means, they can do it by mobile application and so on. However, this mobile application is inaccessible to many citizens, and it is not a great effort to resolve that the obligation which is cumulative from previous years is so much and so much. A citizen who gets a solution knows he owes it and pays for it. Of course, the commitment established on 31 December of the previous year must be discounted on the currency when the citizen receives that solution. If we don't, and there's this in practice, then of course that debt interest is increasing and that debt is increasing. The third thing I want to suggest is why the ministry does not influence municipalities and cities that it is possible, and it is possible but that those citizens who pay in general property tax get a certain discount. To be clear, a hundred dinars today, a hundred dinars tomorrow or a hundred dinars yesterday, that's different sums of money. Those local self-governments that have their own projects, which have their own plans, would be very helpful if citizens paid the total amount immediately. There are citizens who can pay for it. On the other hand, it's a little bit more likely because the interest in the banks is very low and the citizens who have the money better give it to the municipalities, give it to the cities, give it to their city than to keep it at home or keep it in the banks with interest from 0.9% to 1%. Perhaps most importantly, just to say, if this information is given in a solution, then the citizen doesn't have to keep all the receipts from the previous period, because we all keep the receipts that we paid taxes for the previous year and for years back, say, three, four years. With this information that we would get with a solution, which is cumulative, we would get rid of these administrations, and we wouldn't need receipts. Even those citizens who electronically pay taxes in order to be sure have to print that payment to be sure if there are any confusions, so that they can submit it in writing and prove that they paid for it. So much for this topic, and I think this can be cleared up and this is all for the benefit of the citizens, and I call on the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Finance to get these things cleared up once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3889	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for the word, we continue to work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary seat in order to enable its participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been given a report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly to comply with Article 27(5). The Law on selecting Members of the People finds confirmation of the mandate to the MP, Jelena Kocic, selected from the Election List "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children". On the basis of the decision of the RIK, the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Jelena Kocic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask that he prepare himself to take an oath. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Let me congratulate you, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, on your choice and wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Borisav Kovacevic and Djordje Komlenski. We continue our work and move on to a unique search on the fifth item of the agenda – REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE ENERGESTICS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2019. Year, with the proposal to lock up the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, since 19. FEBRUARY 2021. A year. According to Article 90(1) and 239, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the meetings were invited to attend Dejan Popovic, President of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, Gordan Tanic, Head of the Agency's Economic and Financial Affairs Sector and Goran Petkovic, member of the Agency's Council. You have received a report on the work of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, as well as a proposal for a conclusion of the Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy Committee since 19 February 2021. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consensually. 192 and 238, pages 3 and 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the report on the work of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy since 19 February 2021. I give my word to the proposing representative, Dejan Popovic, president of the Energy Agency Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3890	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, I will seek as soon as possible to present this report that you have received and which is quite extensive. As you know, according to the provisions of the Law on Energy of the Republic of Serbia, the president and members of the Energy Agency's Energy Council for their work correspond to the National Assembly and are once a year obliged to submit an annual report. The Council for Energy of the Republic of Serbia was elected at this meeting on 22 March, at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, following a competition, in accordance with the Energy Act. This report, as you have noticed, in addition to the part relating to the Agency's own business report, is one major part of the report on the energy sector of the Republic of Serbia, which includes a demonstration of the situation and activities in the domain of the electricity market, natural gas, oil and oil derivatives, secure supply of electricity, natural gas, activity within the scope of the general interest. It was fully done with recommendations from the Council of European Energy Regulators. I will brief you on this report that is very important for our country on Serbia's energy sector. This is the most comprehensive report in the energy sector, and it is often cited in professional circles when works are done as a source always by this report. The safe supply of electricity, natural gas and oil derivatives in 2019 was satisfactory. Total electricity consumption was at approximately the same level as 2018, decreased household consumption by 0.6 and high-level customers by 5.3% and increased industrial consumption, in medium-level customers by 3.4%, which is a good indicator that our country is industrializing. The indicator of reduced household consumption is likely that households are now taking more care of energy efficiency, more and more people are installing ice lighting and buying devices that are more energy efficient. The total electricity production in 2019 was lower by 0.3 compared to 2018, with the production from the thermal power plants being higher by 1% and the production in hydropower plants was lower by as much as 10.4% due to adverse hydrological impacts. Natural gas consumption in 2019 decreased by 8% compared to 2018. Natural gas consumption has increased in households, but has been reduced in the industry for the purposes of heat. The growth in household consumption is a good indicator, so natural gas is now a more competitive energy. Out of the total sales volume on the free market, in 2019, electricity was sold 49.2%, and in 2018 it was 47.1% and 84.1% of natural gas sold on the free market. Everything else, with electricity and gas, as you know, is sold at guaranteed prices at which consent is given by the Energy Agency. The energy development strategy for the 2025 period forecasted a rise in electricity consumption of less than 1% annually, during which period this consumption should be covered by the extension of the working century and by increasing the power of existing and building new power plants. The third block at the Kostolac Termo power plant is the most significant project that has been launched with realisation as the construction of Te-to Pančevo. In line with the goal of participating in the overall gross final consumption of renewable production with 27%, Serbia continued to do so. During 2019, wind power plants totalled 134 megawatts, so that at the end of the year the total installed power was 373 megawatts, while 311 small power plants of a total installed power of 201 megawatts were connected to the distribution network at the end of 2019. The Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, for us, on the basis of the Energy Act, adopted on 5 March 2019, the Decision on the exemption of the new natural gas interconnector, which is approved by the company GASTRANS Novi Sad, will exempt third parties from the obligation to apply the rules of access to ownership and regulated prices for the use of natural gas to transport natural gas through the Republic of Serbia and be linked to Bulgarian and Hungarian national transport systems. This gas interconnection is the most important condition for ensuring a longer-term safer supply of natural gas and the development of the market, avoiding the risks Serbia has faced. I said yesterday at the Committee session, this pipeline has, as you know, been released before the new year itself and it is the most significant energy facility in our country done over the last 30 years and provides us with the security of gas supply in the long future. A low degree of household gasification, about 10% of the total, means there is potential for greater growth in this sector, which means the development of gas infrastructure. For the further development of the gas market, it is of great importance to speed up both supply and installation of appropriate measuring equipment. The price of natural gas for public supply to all public suppliers, as well as the price of access to the gas transport and distribution system during 2019, did not change. For the sustainable development of energy systems, an adequate long-term policy of regulated prices is very important, predictable for customers and investors. However, the unforgivable precondition for applying the regulation of electricity prices for households is an increase in the number of protected socially endangered customers, as in 2019 the number of protected customers was more than the number of competent services estimated to be protected. The Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia insists on rationalising in the business of the energy entity and recognising self-justified costs when giving consent to regulation of the price. One of the largest electricity costs is the losses in the distribution network that the Agency regularly recognises in a less than achieved. For example, the losses in 2018 were slightly greater 0.45%, and in 2019 11.75%, which is still high and should be reduced to - technically justified. So, JP EMS a.d. continues active participation in the development of the system in 2019, strengthening cross-border capacity and participation in coordinated cross-border capacity actions in the organised market SEPEKS exchange of electricity during 2019, and we are one of the countries of all these in Southeast Europe that has a liquid market market market day ahead. In 2019, the indicator of unplanned power cuts in the distribution system is somewhat worse compared to 2018, while the transmission systems are, the trend of improvement has continued and we can say that in the transmission system we are certainly at some European enviable level, as regards the loss in the transmission system. Data collection on the quality of natural gas delivery was conducted in 2019. Not all delivered, but there was a first unplanned suspension of transport systems, while on distribution systems the interruptions were at the level as they were in 2018. In 2019, 66 submissions were admitted to the Agency which mainly concerned the operation and operation of the energy entity and the protection of the domains of their business. All complaints received by the Agency were processed and provided answers to their applicants. The activity of the Agency on the market in relation to the behaviour of an energy entity towards customers and users of the system is gradually increasing. We especially point out what we are proud of, that we have completely over the past two years brought that otherwise the decision to issue a licence is reduced within the legal period and in the Agency no one who submits a licence will wait longer than 30 days for the Council to make a decision or 40 days, if they have a supplement of the case. In short, just for the sake of the people, since there are certain MPs who have not been before, in short I will just tell you what is the basis of the work of the Agency. The Agency was established by the Energy Act 2004, which harmonizes our legislation in the field of energy with the regulations of the European Union at the time. The agency was registered at the Commercial Court in Belgrade on 16 June 2005 and started working on August 1st of the same year. The most important responsibilities of the Agency are certification and licensing, price regulation, control of the energy market, settlement of complaints and consumer protection and international co-operation. The Agency is governed by the Agency's Council, as I said, by the president and members of the Council elected by the Assembly. The Council shall represent the President and represent the Agency, the Board of Directors of the Council's work, decide on issues from the work of the Agency, organise work and manage the work of the Agency, make decisions in the appeal procedure on its own. The work of the Agency is carried out through four sectors: the sector for economic and technical affairs, the sector for energy technical services, economic financial affairs, legal affairs and organisational and general jobs. The Agency is an independent legal entity and is independent of the executive authority in the performance of its tasks, as well as other state bodies and organisations, legal and natural persons engaged in energy work. The Agency has its own sources of funding established by law, independent of the state budget. The Agency’s activities during 2019. I think you've all read, I'll just say the shortest. The agency held 48 sessions, the Agency's Council held 48 sessions where licences were issued, various solutions were made. As you've heard, an exception act has been passed, certifications, everything from the work cycle. The Agency received 89 licence applications during 2019. The Agency's Council adopted a solution on the issue of 80 new ones, so at the end of 2019 there were 960 valid prices. In the area of price regulation, the Agency's Council amended the methodologies in accordance with the law and agreed on decisions on electricity prices, agreement on a decision on the price of non-standard services, distribution for natural gas, consent to the decision on non-standard conditions d.o.o. Gus Becay, consent to a decision on the price of non-standard conditions gas company from Covin. In November 2019, the Agency adopted a report on the need to regulate reserve power prices for secondary and territorial regulation system services. In October, the Agency's Council agreed to decisions on the price of access to the electricity system, access to the distribution system and the price of guaranteed supply. The agency, as I said before, is controlling the electricity market. In addition, it adopts development plans and plans to invest our portable transport and distribution networks. During 2019, it agreed on the act of developing the EMS transmission system from 2018 to 2027, the rules of work in the distribution system of electricity EPS distribution, the development plan of the transmission system for the period 2019 to 2028 and the investment plan and the transmission system for the period 2019 to 2021. Plan for the development of the transport system "Yugorosgas" transport d.o.o. Nish, plan to download the measuring devices for distribution. In March 2019, the agency agreed on the acts brought by Gastrans on the basis of the final exemption report for the purpose of implementing the distribution of long-term capacities. The Agency is all complaints coming to the Agency, since the Agency is second-degree for the complaint procedure on networking, mainly all complaints were to join the distribution system of electricity. There were 239 of them. International activities. The Agency participates in the Athens Process, participates actively in the ECRB sessions. This is an association of regulators at the level of the Energy Community, which is very important because it provides some strategic and joint activities, gives an opinion on preliminary certification decisions, co-operation with other regulators. The agency participates in the Berlin process, as you know, the Western Balkans initiative 6. The Agency shall participate in regulatory associations. This is a member of the CER Council of European Energy Regulators. The Agency is a full member of the ERE, which is the same professional association of regulators. The agency is one of the founders of the new Balkan Forum regulators' association, which we founded together with Bulgaria, Greece, Macedonia, Montenegro, later extended to Republika Srpska and Albania. The Agency participates in Chapter 15 in expert groups on EU accession negotiations. In financial terms, the financial operations of the Agency for 2019 took place in line with the approved financial plan in 2019 by the National Assembly, as well as the rebalancing of the financial plan for 2019, approved by the National Assembly, "The Official Messenger 13/20". The plan sets out the total revenue and expenditure of the Agency, including unforeseen expenditure, as well as the elements for a comprehensive understanding of profit and employment policies. The Agency, in accordance with the obligations laid down in the Agency's Law, submitted to the National Assembly in October 2018 the financial plan for 2019, adopted and approved in December 2018. This report shows the planned implementation of the funds used for the purposes of revenue received in accordance with the law and the financial plan from the fees and costs of issuing licences, part of the access tariffs and the use of the system, etc. regulatory fees, donations and refunds of financial and other revenues. As you can see in this first table where the total revenues of the Agency are, the income from the licence was much less than what we planned, and probably because there are simply no more new entities that apply for the license, and the license is issued for 10 years, which is quite a long period, so there's no one for 10 years, but they're just resuscitating some maintenance requirements for the continued holding of the licence, and some who had previously had a licence after 10 years didn't ask for an extension, so that income is significantly lower. We planned about 24 million, and nearly 16 million were achieved. The revenue of the regulatory fee was slightly greater than 168 million of the planned 164. The proceeds from donations and refunds, we don't have any special donations. These donations and refunds are mainly the funds that, when we participate in various European forums and commissions, the Energy Community refunds, according to our participant 800 euros, and we book that as income from donations and refunds. There were slightly fewer trips already in 2019, so it was achieved only with a million 880, and three million were planned. So the financial and other incomes were at the level we expected, unpaid claims, that's for who we owed from the ones we regulated in the previous year. When we're done with the year, we have to close it down and transfer it to the next year. That income was achieved as we expected. So our income achieved was lower, as you can see, the total income was planned to be 291 million, and it was achieved from 221. The agency in this table on total costs, as you can see, of the planned business expenditure of 208 million, has been achieved with 195 million and mostly all, in detail, are in what is planned according to the plan approved by the National Assembly. So, the expenses that we've achieved are 13 million less, so we've got the total financial result, the excess income on expenditures, the four million dinars. In the end, one of the biggest problems the Agency has been facing for years is the lack of quality personnel. A total of 11 employees have left the Agency since the start of its work and slower reception of new and necessary personnel. This phenomenon is certainly due to significantly slower growth in earnings in the Agency, i.e. the public private sector in the field of energy, which is reflected in the dynamics of the activities assigned to the Agency as well. During 2019, two other employees left the Agency, with a total of 43 employees at the end of 2019. The structure of the Agency's staff has been given to you, but I would point out, however, that in the Agency of 43 employees only five are not higher education. We've got five science doctors, one master, 32 high school students. For the Agency, high average employee earnings are characteristic, so the average employee employment rate, the average age of employees, was 23 on December 31st. This age structure of employees is expected. Taking into account the nature of the highly specialised work that the Agency is dealing with, as well as the relevant requirements for experience in the reception of employees. I tried to keep it as short as possible, so I wouldn't make a mistake, so I'm like this. We're open to all questions. There are colleagues Petkovic and counterpart Tanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3891	Thank you, Mr. Popovic. The word is proposed, MP Veroljub Arsic, chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had a chance to hear a report from our Energy Agency in 2019. I thank Mr Popovic, but first of all, for new MPs and Serbian citizens, I would like to say something about the role of the Energy Agency in the Republic of Serbia. In every campaign, whether it is between two rounds of elections, whether it is in the election campaign itself, it is mentioned and always said that agencies should be abolished and that all the jobs run by agencies should be returned to the ministry, i.e. certain administrations in the ministries themselves. This could be in another system, perhaps in another state order where the country that is dominant in all economic flows, the state that has an economy in its absolute possession, but Serbia that has started its reforms wants to increase its economy's competitiveness and to have among economic operators non-Serbian and, of course, those who are domestic. You can imagine whether it would be possible to build, say, that famous Turkish flow if we didn't have an Energy Agency, but all regulation jobs would be done by the energy ministry. I'm telling you I wouldn't. No partner will come to Serbia as long as we have a friendly relationship with the country, where Serbia participates in the market as a state and makes competition for the new entity in a certain way, which also wants to participate in the domestic market. And not just about the Turkish flow. A dozen years ago, we sold a majority package of oil industries to the Russian company, kept one ownership. The same question is now being asked – could we sell that only the ministry regulates the area of energy? What Mr Popovic said about energy, I would still divide it into three parts, and that even our citizens, and the MPs would have an idea of what this is all about. The first are oil and oil derivatives. The other one's gas. The third is electrical energy. Where's the least of your problems? When it comes to oil and oil derivatives, yes, we have one pipeline, but we have one oil processor, and there's no problem. There's no other refinery to use that oil from that pipeline. Next, when it comes to derivatives, you can drive the derivatives by road, you can use the rail, you can take the river. And there's no problem, absolutely no problem. The market only regulates itself. There is the Agency to monitor the implementation of the laws and provisions which provide for licences and certificates. Where's the problem? The problem arises in two areas – gas supply and electricity supply. Why gas and electricity? Because gas in Serbia can enter or exit Serbia or only be sold in Serbia via the pipeline, and electricity is the same. You can't bring electricity by train or by boat, but you just have to use a power line. It's basically a serious problem that we didn't know much about, looking at the side. Somehow this report submitted by the Energy Agency for 2019 coincided with a report discussed by our Committee on Economy, Mining and Energy regarding the Energy Community and the Director of the Energy Community Secretariat. We were only actually able to see how important and how serious our Energy Agency is. Throughout history and our personal experiences we've seen... My colleague, I'd like to ask my colleagues... Madam Chairman, I would like you to allow me to continue my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3893	I only ask colleagues if they can be quieter and listen to the presentation of colleagues Veroljub Arsic. If anyone's not interested, they can freely lead the discussion out of the O.R. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3894	So there you can see all the problems our Agency has. I can tell you that the Agency's work in 2019 wasn't that easy, it was like a dynamic and very busy one. Throughout history, we have learned, even had personal experience when it comes to energy, all wars, and that's true, but we have to accept another fact that also the terrible conflicts of water and around the hub where energy is transported and around the markets that every country has and that is not negligible to anyone. And everyone would somehow want to control, exploit, say it's a perfectly legitimate right, the question is how much we allow it. The entire energy market in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the pipeline "Turkish Stream", wants to control which gas enters Serbia, which is coming out of Serbia. Basically, even they don't want it, but simply that the gas they buy, like Russian producers, goes through Serbia and now it's no longer Russian gas, now it's the gas of some other company, and they're trying in every way possible to put certain administrative problems through these problems to achieve exclusively their economic interests. It's the same with electricity. The owner of almost all the power lines in Serbia is the Republic of Serbia and, of course, everyone wants to take advantage of it, have an economic account, exploit these power lines and, of course, one market that is not negligible, which still has eight or nine million users, which is the market of the Republic of Serbia. Let me be clear. When it comes to electricity used by our economy, it is bought on the stock market, but the population that buys electricity, or uses, is bought under different conditions. You always have this tendency to leave that part of the market to others, and our EPS on such conditions, I will explain later why, on their terms, it could not be competitive. You need to know every time a topic in society is updated, and the problem exists for decades, you need to know that the problem is purely economical and that someone wants their own economic interest there. It is up to our state authorities and agencies not to allow the private economic interest of an entity to be realised, but exclusively to be handled by state policy. You witnessed just a few weeks ago that we were bombarded with the degree of pollution in Belgrade for days. If we took as much as it is on the annual average, you'd get to a negligiblely small number of days, so we had a story about how much that emitter of those gases is involved, as much as this one, as it is. Now, look at one, just one detail, I quote as an example, maybe it has nothing to do with this subject, they've begun to accuse themselves of such a level of pollution by car drivers, or their cars. If you look at the structure of how many cars participate in the degree of pollution, some four to six percent participate. If we put all these cars on top of European standards, we would reduce the degree of pollution they have by one to two percent to the total pollution of our capital and our capital. That 1% or 2% cost a billion euros that someone in the automotive industry, whether dealers and representatives of large car manufacturers, whether the importers of spare parts, etc., would make billions of euros profit on that, and insignificantly compared to the amount of money we invested, we would reduce pollution in our capital. All these NGOs when they're led by such a subject, they're actually funded by those who need to make a huge profit, and I'm saying, our state authorities aren't supposed to be involved, but they're supposed to be managed solely by the interests of the state. No one said, now I'm going back on the subject, that it's actually the biggest polluter of the household that they use, which is not connected to the district heating system, which is either individually or independently heated. No one will talk about how to increase the energy efficiency of these buildings, meaning apartments, houses, anyway, to increase the number of users of the district heating system that are least involved in pollution, because there is no money too much for them and there is competition sharp, there will be many participants. For more to be done, there will be many more domestic participants, there will be no foreign multinational company. Basically, there we would have achieved an effect that significantly reduces the level of pollution of our citizens in the entire territory of Serbia, as well as in our capital. Now, through all of this, I'm trying to explain to you what it looks like with electricity now. The EPS, the largest potential with its electricity generation, is based on the use of raw lignite. It is low-calorie coal that emits a high degree of pollution and there are continuous attempts to operate the EPS under the same conditions under which energy systems operate in the EU, i.e. to buy carbon dioxide that emits, to buy it on the market and on the markets. There's another problem. Our strategic definition is for Serbia to be a full member of the EU, but current EU members have access to EU funds that we do not have and which can subsidise production from renewable electricity sources that are more expensive than in the production of raw lignite and are significantly advantageous over us. They don't care about that. They are interested in not the lives and health of our citizens, it's just an excuse, I'm not saying this for the EU, I'm saying for the problems our country has, to get into the market and put the EPS in a far more unfavourable position. The agency had the task and the obligation to maintain, above all, the stability of the energy system of the Republic of Serbia in 2019 and years earlier and years, the stability of the energy system of the Republic of Serbia, to allow a fair match between all those who want to participate in the market for energy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, while preserving our national electricity producer, which is the EPS, to give him time to modernise, revitalise his capacities, reduce emissions of harmful gases, to reduce the losses he has so that he could fully participate with other participants in the electricity market. I hope I've been able to bring the citizens closer to the importance of our agency. Just because of this problem, Mr Popovic said only in one part that he had problems with the staff. Yes, it only testifies to the seriousness of our agency, as serious international associations or producers of various kinds of energy companies have been kidnapped for staff agencies. Which only speaks of the level of their training. I might be, I don't know, I'll say, they were leaving, if they were leaving, leaving for a salary of 12 to 15 thousand euros from our agency. Will you pay someone 15,000 euros if he's not an expert and he doesn't know? I'm sure you won't. It just says what our Agency is doing and how hard it is to endure in all of this, that you have to fight to preserve Serbia's energy stability. Without Serbia's energy stability, there is no economic progress, there is no. No investor, neither domestic nor foreign will invest in new production, or come to Serbia if it is foreign, if it is not sure that it will have enough gas and electricity at any moment. I don't want us to pollute about what kind of project the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, started, is now, and this is the project to build that Turkish corridor of our pipeline, our work, which was supposed to endure, in the first place politically, that was the political part that was related to the Republic of Serbia, and these problems were just the ones that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and these other regulators who had the Agency. Which also shows that Serbia is no longer insignificant on the map of Europe and the world. I must remind you that one of the details of the Washington Agreement is something that absolutely has nothing to do with the status of our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, it is quite possible to use the pipeline that Serbia has, of course, with compensation. This only shows how much Serbia today has a reputation not only among our traditional friends such as Russia and China, but also for our serious partners such as the United States, which certainly belongs to President Aleksandr Vukic. This is just one part of that part of the report and the work done by our Energy Agency. I can only welcome all the efforts of the Agency, the Council, the President of the Council on everything they do to preserve energy stability in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to preserve our Elektroprivred Serbia, and we as the National Assembly, through the supervision of the work of that agency, will give them any future support whenever necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3895	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's MP, Muamer Zukorlic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3896	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the Energy Agency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the energy stability and security of one country is one of the strategic pillars of survival, both state and society. That is why this topic deserves to be given important, very important attention and importance, both from the position of the report, as far as I can see, that the report has been seriously drawn up, but also by us MPs who need their vote in the end to confirm and verify the quality of the report, that is, the quality of the work of the agency itself. Certainly we, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, will support this report in the voting day but this is an opportunity to talk about energy in this country with a few more aspects and with more angles. What is looking forward to is the country's commitment through its government and the very top of this country, the commitment to energy strengthening, energy stability, with very serious investment, and how much good energy strategy seems to me. The meaning of energy stability and security is seen not to question, or at the risk of the individual citizen himself from the lowest degree of protection, but very important to whether the citizen will have heating and electricity, and to the very top of the security that is being viewed in that we must never at any time bring the country into a situation of energy dependence or energy uncertainty, because we well know that such dependence and such uncertainty can be misused against the country, against the people. When it comes to energy that this country has the good fortune to produce itself, primarily electricity, it's water energy, other potentials, above all renewable energy. We are certainly ahead and there is much easier and easier to ensure energy stability and there is only a need to continue with good strategies, good development programs and above all with a quality host relationship, and there is always a factor in man's key factor, because if we have the right people in the right positions, there can be no problem. Always before and after all, man is factor number one. And a view of entrusted responsibilities and responsibilities, but also of responsibility. However, given that certain experiences need to be considered both certain problems and risks as well as needs. Before that, I would like to express my joy that the country with its leaders had heard about this second part of the challenge and the problem, that is, the second part of the energy needs and energy stability, which are energy products with which this country originally does not have, that is, gasification, and that is why, even now and now, it makes me happy and happy. Therefore, the construction, i.e. the state's readiness and timely forecasting and positioning of this country in terms of possible pipeline flows. I mean, first of all, the so-called. Turkey's flow, where the state has recognised this interest in a timely and quality manner, has been positioning itself in terms of this current, and here we are already in a position for the state to have a significant interest and, in particular, additional power in terms of energy stability. When we talk about certain parts of the country, I can tell what the experience of the region I come from, the area of Sandzak, the New Pazar and the surrounding cities, for years, here's the whole mandate I have devoted, as well as my fellow Justice and Reconciliation Party, we have devoted an analysis of the opportunities and the problems we face, how to fix the economic situation, how to bring investors, how to enable new investments. What I can still say, with regret, is that the Sandzak area is still the most neglected in terms of economic development, although we had, I must say, serious investments, especially in recent years, serious investments, in the field of infrastructure, in the field of construction in the medical sector, which is very important, in the field of building in the education sector. So here we have some very significant shifts, which should certainly continue. However, as long as we are not able to, at least that investment intensity in the manufacturing sector or as the people say, open up the factory, raise to the degree of that intensity that is happening, if not at the capital level, what at least at the level, say the Shumadi and other parts of this country, we cannot be satisfied and we cannot agree with that state. Analyzing problems for the launch of investment activities in the field of production, we have come to the undeniable conclusion that there are two main problems. So, that the problem of travel infrastructure or to be specific, where we're away from the highway, then we're far from the factory. That's what can be concluded. For example, we expected a lot from potential and later realised serious investment by investors, let's say from the Republic of Turkey, and especially given the specific relations and ties between the citizens of Sandzak and the Republic of Turkey, especially cousins and others. We hoped that it would benefit the Sandzak region, from investments from the Republic of Turkey, but later, after a few years of meeting with this, a very serious investment wave from the Republic of Turkey, or by their investors, however, statistics showed that Sandzak's space had no use. More than 600 different, primarily factories, i.e. investment units or facilities in the economy sector, Turkish businessmen, i.e. Turkish economic factors, have invested in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of that, nearly 90% were in the Corridor 10 belt, somewhere in the movement from Piroth, Nis, according to Subotica, which suggests that the highway itself, i.e. the highway route, was a key bait, because what attracted Turkish investors to the most significant extent. True, there is another reason why we were pointed out by industry investment experts and the motivation of economic investment is gasification, i.e. gas energy is another factor or one of the key two factors for attracting, above all, foreign investments. This means that for the ends, or the ends of this country where we don't have gasification, and unfortunately Sandzak is one of those parts we didn't have significant economic investments. That's why we've worked very hard these years and eventually even politically managed to reach an agreement, which is why I am grateful to the ruling party. One of the key points of this agreement and were the two points which touched, i.e. that treated the energy sector, in particular the gasification of the Sanjay space where the damar, as I say, will continue from Kopalnik, through Novi Pazar, Tutina and according to the provisions of this agreement, will also include Sjenica and Prepolje, Nova Varoš and Priboj, which would eventually make this obstacle or this disturbance or this lack in investor motivation, where this area would become significantly attractive to investors. Of course, when we add what is another of the main points of this agreement, the intensification of the project Corridor 11, this means continuing to build the highway away from Požega towards the south, i.e. towards Ivanjica, then the Long Field, and beyond the cave to Bolari, i.e. the Montenegrin border. So with these two very important projects, we would achieve what we could definitely do, what would be considered an elimination of all obstacles to serious investment, i.e. creating ambience, but an ambience in which to achieve the right dynamics, and it is most needed there. Because if you have one space that's been neglected for decades for a variety of reasons, which is objectively what I'm talking about, and God knows sometimes other people who aren't the subject today, and they're important topics and they can be treated with other opportunities, so then this space could definitely be really integrated into the whole state system. Unfortunately, it is often about certain parts of this country, and especially Sandzak, which has been treated unfortunately for decades as a neural area for various reasons, sometimes historical, cultural, once political, objectively, and very often artificially challenged political, I will not say projects, because these are not serious things to be projects, but to certain political exhibitions, actually throwing one wrong light at this space, i.e. this space is misrepresented, as it is not. In some ways, with his objective problems to be solved, he draws attention to what he is not and he becomes a subject in one wrong way. Again, on the other hand, those who should be from the position of central policies, I am now talking about all the past decades, who should have otherwise responded to the wrong local policies and unprofessional policies, and often the unfavorable policies, instead of answering differently, to respond to real integration projects and offers, as they now respond by means of highways, gasification and all other major projects, because in fact such projects are being implemented by integration rights. Where one population through various historical processes will be in a position to experience, or really be neglected, means integration is not done by constantly condemning one space, or by looking for reasons to be negative towards it, but you actually need to step up the processes of real integration. First of all, the economy, the infrastructure, it's the right way, it's the right way. Why? Because each neglecting one space, each neglecting the citizens of one space in economic and social terms, actually always helps those who want to sow some poison. Those who want to turn people in some other direction, poison them, in some way indoctrination them into something that would be destructive. So, psychological and sociologically at all, it's known that you'll always be easier to recruit people for more complex ideas if they're in a difficult economic and social state. For a hungry man, an unsatisfactory man, a man who has a poor energy service, who, I don't know, spends all winter every third day running out of electricity, who has days without electricity, who is entrenched by roads, who is being blackmailed by someone politically to clear his path, whom, whom, whom, etc., such people are disappointed. In their despair, they are actually an easy target for any abuse and indoctrination. That's what we don't need. So we don't need oil on fire, we need water on fire. So we need an answer that will actually reduce these tensions. Another point of the agreement is the restoration of the low-voltage and high-voltage Sanjay space network. That network is really in desperate shape for various reasons. We don't have too much use to talk about the past years and decades that have actually led to the abandonment of this system, but I'm very happy with this agreement and this agreement, that the entire network of electricity, that is, the low-voltage and high-voltage network, will lead to a decent level and where, finally, this space will be able to breathe in quality. So energy and infrastructure are a key factor in investment, but there has been an example of exceptions. You have, a serious Turkish factory opened in Raska, only 20km from Novi Pazar. Raska didn't have gas either, and Raska didn't have a highway, but there's still a factory open there. There's no highway, no gas. There's no Little Zvornik. There's no Password either. This suggests that there is also this political factor, that it is also up to political hosts to animated and encourage investors to invest in the area. Because if we don't have a good host, if we have a political host who will somehow present an ugly picture of that space or maybe, I don't know, offer them a poor administrative service, make it difficult for them to invest, then these people are running away. That was the case with the New Market and the surrounding cities. So that's what's also very important, which is certainly not out of the jurisdiction of this agency and what needs to be solved in another way. I'd like to ask you a question for clarification to the Director of the Agency. Listening to the work of establishing that association, as you said, the Balkan Forum, you listed the countries, it's very good that such an association was made and I'm sure it will benefit you, but you listed the states and you said, among other things, Republika Srpska, so I'm curious – is it a member of that association of Bosnia and Herzegovina in general as a state or just a Republika Srpska entity? If the state did, then it should have been said, and if it wasn't, I would have asked to be explained why not, since it was international agreements. In international agreements, entities may be exclusively internationally recognised countries, i.e. internationally recognised entities. I would like this simply for my own sake, given that I have an interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a cultural and ethnic country of Bosniak origin, and it is very important to me. Most of all, our political party is working to preserve and improve relations between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and the Bosniak people, so that every detail of the relationship is of paramount importance. In any case, we will give support to this report, but we also expect the Agency to be a constructive factor in all these visions of energy strengthening all parts of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3897	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. Before we move on to the next speaker, one announcement about today's work. Dear colleagues, in accordance with Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the mandated representative of the Single Serbia parliamentary group Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3898	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Mrs. Jevdzic. Mr Popovic and his associates, the promoter was more than detailed today, and I believe that those people who weren't in the topic were able to get acquainted with the subject of today's work. You'll allow me, the chairman for just a minute, I may not appear to be in the topic, but you'll see that I am in the topic. Dragan Markovic Palma, president of my Single Serbia parliamentary group, would certainly do better than me to discuss this issue when it comes to energy, but as you know, he is officially absent, and you can see from the media that he was visiting Egypt and that Egypt has confirmed that he has not recognised Kosovo's independence, i.e. They've suspended all recognition activities. President Dacic knows that this is not an easy job, because he himself participated in withdrawing recognition from 18 countries. At the moment, 96 countries are opposed to Kosovo's recognition, and 92 countries recognise Kosovo. With what happened in Egypt visiting Mr Dragan Markovic Palma, we conclude that it is very easy to open one of Pandora's boxes, where we will see that he may not be the only Egyptian who has not officially recognised Kosovo. Why is this important and what does it have to do with today's topic? There are several reasons, and one of them is the energy system of the Republic of Serbia. It ends 22 years after Serbia's great injustice and bombing, precisely because of problems with Kosovo, where besides a large number of innocent victims, and several thousand, and over 300,000 exiled Serbs from their centuries-old hearths, we as a state, I think, were primarily on the infrastructure, completely demoted. The damage that is estimated after one such NATO aggression that has struck us is over a hundred billion dollars. The energy system was one of NATO's most important targets. I remember then, along with all the other bombs they dropped on Serbia, they dropped graphite bombs. They were designed to destroy the energy grid. They destroyed over 70% of our power grid then. Then you can imagine when anyone is trying to compare us to any country in the environment or any European country. It must always take that fact that Serbia was then energy-graded. But what gave strength and will to all citizens, as always with us, because we are such a people, was this rapid restoration of systems and complete infrastructure. I am sorry that he is not here today and my colleague Mrkonjic, he was at the time in his full strength, as he says, "I am not Minister Mrkonjic, but engineer Mrkonjic". He was a synonym then to perform the work before the deadline. So, as we restored the road infrastructure, we quickly restored the energy grid. To be clear, we of Unity Serbia will support this report. So the report is accurate, detailed, clear and form, I guess, and the standard is well known to us, but the essence is what we support in this report. What's so unusual about me? We're being asked, by the same ones from the beginning of this discussion that bombed us, to raise the price of electricity. I was present yesterday as a member of the Energy Committee and when Mr. Kopač said the same thing and asked us to raise the electricity price. I congratulate you, not just you, of course, and the Ministry of Energy, because you are persistent and that we still have the cheapest electricity in the environment and besides, we have a stable supply of electricity to all economic operators. The good price of electricity and stability in delivery when it comes to business society is one stability and probably from there and the attractiveness for the arrival of an increasing number of investors in Serbia and that is what separates us from the region and that is what is certainly one of the castles to be the best in the region, and that is why we in Unity Serbia support this government and support President Aleksandr Vukic. We are all aware of the importance of the Ministry of Energy, we are all aware of your agencies, and it is certain that, not only with us, but all countries depend exactly on stability in the energy system. After all the trouble we've suffered, we don't have to be proud of what kind of energy system we have, but to have the right to boast about everyone else in the environment. In addition to all these commendations, I would ask you, if you could give it, or the chairman, since the minister is not here, but certainly, and if you are unable to give an answer now, it wouldn't be bad for me to have that answer delivered in some form of writing. Even you on one of the energy committees said that to bring the energy system into an ideal phase, we need $10 billion, if I'm not mistaken, I think that's the amount we talked about, and that only for the distribution system and the low-cost network, means, in exchange for the remote reading currentometer, and so on, we need about two billion euros. Why does this matter? We at this point, it's nothing illogical compared to what I've been saying so far, we have losses on the net of 11.5%. The average of these losses in the EU, I repeat, they are not bombed, is about 3-4%. In a nominal sense, if you see a financial loss on an annual level that is created like this, not our fault, it's over $200 million. Serbian citizens are allowed to choose a distributor from whom to buy electricity in the next period. On the one hand, we can say that it will strengthen that competition, the struggle on the market for electricity to be at this level at which it is now, that there should be no larger collection. What am I interested in now? Since we're trying to figure out what the losses are and what it's supposed to cost us, I said, over two billion to completely replace that low-voltage network and replace those currents, and as the promoter said earlier, we don't have the opportunity to get grants from European funds, that means that somewhere we're going to have to be in debt to make one such investment. I wonder if only EPS or all those who distribute electricity in solidarity will participate in this loss? Very often from colleagues, this should be one question, very often from colleagues we hear a question about the power outage on the low-voltage network due to some weather. So we're assuming that these bad bandits and so on, if what I was talking about were to get in line, then it's understood that we wouldn't have a similar situation. Trends tell us that electricity consumption is not falling, and what is our job and yours is to make renewable energy sources dominant in supply. We can do it through different regulatory means, through different incentives. From the analysis I looked at in your report, I saw a table where you showed the percentages of how much electricity you get from what resource. From small hydropower plants, it is not a significant share, I repeat, of small hydroelectric power plants is not a very significant share in electricity production, and somehow it is in public precisely because of the location and importance of the rivers on which these mini power plants are placed, the disturbed public. I mean, without wanting to personally refer this criticism to anyone and I've had the chance to see what it means when, I'm free to say, you kill a river, when you capture a river for these needs. Since their effect is very insignificant in terms of the amount of electricity we get, I think we should force more solar energy sources because they certainly don't endanger the environment, and given the fact that the power from the mini power plants is involved, I think we can easily replace these amounts of electricity without being lost. As far as JS is concerned, at the beginning, I said that we would support this report, and I wish you success in your work and that you would protect and improve our energy system.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3899	Thank you, colleague Vujic. I don't think you've come out of the picture because you've talked about essential things, and the injustice and the past to our people must never forget that. The word has an authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, MP Jasmina Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3900	Thank you, Vice President. Dear gentlemen of the Energy Agency, colleagues and fellow MPs, first of all, I would like to point out that it is a good thing that it has become an established practice that independent regulatory bodies report once a year and thus correspond to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for their work. The Energy Agency's report contains data on the Agency's work, on its financial operations, on the state of affairs of the Republic of Serbia's energy sector. Citizens should know at any time whether the state has provided security in the supply of electricity, gas and oil products. If we analyze this document we see that energy security for the period covered by the report was at a satisfactory level. The total electricity consumption in 2019 was at approximately the same level as in 2018, according to the report. Natural gas consumption has increased in households but has been reduced in industry and for the purposes of heat. What does that tell us? The growth in household consumption suggests that natural gas is a competitive energy. Tendence must be that industry and heats of solid and so-called dirty fuels that pollute the environment gradually shifts to cleaner types of energy among which there is certainly gas. Here I especially mean households that fall into the largest pollutants. Serbia needs to find a balance between economic development and a healthy environment, as economic development loses importance if it leads to a threat to nature, the destruction of the environment that is directly reflected in population health. We have a 2019 report here, but I will look back at the current situation in the energy sector in my next presentation. Serbia's goal is energy stability in all areas, both in electricity and oil derivatives and gas. There's still a lot of work to be done in that field, but it's done a lot. The biggest venture in the energy sector in the past year and dozens of years back, certainly, is the Balkan flow that adds Russian gas across Turkey and Bulgaria, which extends as much as 400km across our country. With this pipeline, Serbia has managed to secure its territory. In this way, energy security and gas delivery stability have been ensured, which opens up the possibility of gas being available to a larger number of households and its price is more favourable to the economy and to the population while the country will be more attractive to foreign investors. In addition to the much lower transport costs compared to the other pipelines we have been supplying so far, Serbia will also charge a transit tax to help pay for the cost of building the Balkan one. With regard to electricity in the report ahead, it is said that the Energy Strategy is projected to increase electricity consumption by 1% per year by 2025 and that this consumption should be covered by the extension of the working century and by increasing the power of existing and building new power plants. Taking into account the fact that 70% of Serbia's electricity is produced from oil, i.e. in thermal power plants, the problem is that these thermal power plants are large pollutants because they re-emit huge amounts of harmful gases in the atmosphere. Given that our electricity system is massive, it takes time for it to change and adapt to the standards that apply in the EU. The relationship is also sought by the European Energy Community and therefore long-term plans must exist. Data are available that annual sulphur dioxide emissions are three hundred thousand tonnes, or six times more than is allowed under the laws of Serbia and the EU. Even if we do not pay attention to the EU, our obligation must be a healthy environment and, above all, the health of our citizens. In these circumstances, we can only improve this by building modern plants, as well as modernising the existing ones. Here, first of all, I'm thinking about plants for the treatment of harmful gases, i.e. sulfuric and nitrogen oxides. A great job of decommissioning has already been done, and many of the work on the field is under way. At the end of last year, a test facility in Kostolc was launched and is waiting to complete the test work and get a final permit. And that's the good news. A few months ago, more specifically in December of last year, the construction of a smoke-resuming plant at the "Nikola Tesla B" thermal power plant in Obrenovac, which will invest 210m euros. The deadline for completion of this facility is the first half of 2024. This project will use Japanese technology, which will reduce carbon dioxide emissions by as much as 97% and thus contribute significantly to cleaner air and a healthier environment. In 2019, the construction of a decommissioning facility in four TENT A blocks in Obrenovac began, reducing the sulphur dioxide emissions by nine times, from 74,000 tonnes to less than 8,000 tonnes. The construction deadline is half in 2022. And here is the main performer of the Japanese consortium and it is important to stress that all these facilities are working in accordance with EU directives on industrial emissions. It also encourages the fact that the preliminary National Plan of the Republic of Serbia to reduce the emissions of harmful gases is scheduled by 2026 to pull out of the drive of the oldest and most inefficient thermoblocks with outdated technology and will be replaced by new, modern facilities, which can meet environmental standards. In order to comply with EU directives by August this year, it should be excluded from the "Colubar A" Termoelectrica network, which will shut down three blocks, and close to the end of the working century is the Morava Termo Power Plant, which should be closed by 2022. The last block of the Kolubara A thermal power plant would have to be shut down by 2023. There are great challenges ahead of us. On the one hand, long-term energy stability and, on the other hand, adapting to the EU's strict demands on the protection of the planet in line with the conclusions of the UN Climate Change Conference. That Serbia adheres to the demands set before it and not only that, but also because of its obligations to ourselves, the fact that we will have a bill on climate change here in parliament next week. We must bear in mind that Serbia has made commitments towards the UN to bring its policies in line with the objectives of sustainable development. The 20-30 agenda covers several priority areas, including climate change and the environment. One of the activities to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals is to improve infrastructure and adapt industry, with greater efficiency and use of clean and environmentally correct technologies. One of the 17 targets set by 2030 is to ensure access to accessible, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, which means increasing the share of renewable energy in the total energy mix. Since Serbia directly participated in the development and writing of the Agenda 20-30, regularly, at the UN headquarters in New York, it is a national report on the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. That our country adheres to its obligations and is on a good path, it speaks and the fact is that the 2025 Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia with a projection by 2030, as well as the National Action Plan for the Use of Renewable Energy, is planned to significantly increase production from renewable sources. Although this calls for higher costs, we need to stick to these plans, if we want to have clean air, to improve and clean the environment and preserve human health, which should be our first priority. Long-term sustainable development should be high on the national target scale, and it can only be achieved by green and low-carbon technologies in the future. Finally, I welcome the Agency's efforts and work on everything it does for our country's energy security and stability. That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support the report in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3901	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Tomic, authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group „Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children”. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3902	Thank you. Dear President, Mr Popovic, fellow MPs, we had the opportunity to hear about the work of the Agency in the previous period when it comes to the biofinance plan. However, we are now talking about the 2019 Report, but we cannot ignore that much has changed since 2019 until today, especially in terms of energy policy, that Serbia has gone very quickly forward when it comes to a 195-nation agreement signed in Paris in 2015 and all of the activities of Mr Alexander Vukic in this area. And I will explain it to you at the end of the exhibition, because I think it is necessary to make one slightly wider introduction, to understand how important it is to go to meet changes, not to wait for them to happen, and then to solve certain situations, especially when it comes to energy policy, but not only to one country's policy at all, and how responsible it is to be when you lead both external and internal policies, not to ignore either one of them, but to permanently work on it, in order to have one developed country that, side by side with all developed countries and the EU and the world, can be dealt with when it comes to certain not only economic challenges, but here we also talk about energy challenges. The responsibility of the Agency itself, we have had several times to hear this, is regulated by certain laws on energy and has its position according to its public powers given through the law and position of the Agency, in addition to regulation of energy prices, giving certain licences, certifications, overseeing the market of energy, and what is most important, solves issues in citizens' complaints. So, citizens who are not satisfied with certain solutions of public enterprises have the right to appeal to the Energy Agency. In addition to the revenues we have had to see, which are from regulatory fees and earlier revenues, the expenditures are exclusively for the part relating to salaries, equipment, software and the lease of business premises. This means that they, as employees of the Agency, are mostly concerned with the work that is most important, which is knowledge, which is in the function of the state, to help all other institutions in an adequate manner lead Serbia's energy policy, but also with citizens to exercise their rights and that those rights that are not able to achieve with other institutions, and in a certain way as a second-degree body, make certain solutions. What is most important, and yesterday we had opportunities to hear on the Committee on Economy and Energy, it is that this international co-operation towards international obligations, according to the energy community, where 18 countries signed the Agreement in 2005, as early as 2005. We extended this Agreement in 2016, because each agreement is ten years long and started in 2006. Serbia has committed to respect, together with countries in the region, the application of certain legal solutions made by the European Parliament, which are directives and those directives in the field of energy in co-operation with the Energy Community of all countries in the region should apply. We have that third package. This third package of certain directives, which is the highest focus in the separation of whoever the producer is and who the user is, has always been a little in the problem for the Republic of Serbia somewhere when we talk about the work on the gas area because Serbia is at a crossroads when it comes to energy and transit networks, and it is not just the center of infrastructure happening because of its geostrategic and geopolitical position, but also about energy. In that part, the Agency has indeed acted extremely state-of-the-art, because in certain strategic projects important for the Republic of Serbia, although it has found itself somewhere at the crossroads between the East and the West, when we talk about pipelines, it has made certain decisions that are in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. These were exemption acts, when we talk about the third package, when we talk about the pipeline when it comes to the Turkish flow, but these are also decisions concerning the certification of the network when we talk about the EMS and the certification of especially our facilities located in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. You know that the Energy Community has certified KOST, although it has not had the right to do so, since they have not proved their right to property, when it comes to energy facilities in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, but Serbia is simply struggling with it in Vienna when it comes to the Energy Community, but also in Brussels to prove its rights, although you know that many times there are double arches on Serbia, not only when it comes to energy policy but also other policies. What shows us our desire to preserve our national state interests, in fact, is indeed, thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, one indication that Serbia is going a good path. Whenever you guard your national and national interests, you are above all more respected as a country in that struggle to preserve the interests of the state and in that conversation and those who are not like-minded on different topics, even when we talk about energy, you finally come out as a moral winner. And investors somewhere recognize that our aspirations, regardless of how we are not always adequately rewarded in this political sense, but recognize that our struggle and opening the market for foreign direct investment inflows. This is an indication to you that in the past year, when the biggest problem was with foreign direct investment in the whole of the European Union, throughout the Balkans, Serbia came out with a level of 2.9 billion euros, which for the whole Balkans has shown so much and shows, in fact, that when we talk about GDP growth, or economy in 2018, which was 4.4% of GDP, in 2019 4.2%, it came out as a country with the smallest decline, or 1% in 2020. Why am I saying this? Because when you look at the free market of energy, you see essentially that our high goal is to increase electricity consumption at the time of the Corona was simply not possible, but it has proved that the energy efficiency has increased, that industry has shown that the lower electricity consumption is going, that means that it uses certain alternative energy sources and has proved that the Energy Agency has managed not to increase the price of gas, meaning, in collaboration with public enterprises dealing with this topic, then, that the price of electricity to stop it from experiencing some greater increases, only 3.5%, and that is what it is, in fact, an indication that, defending that state policy, has actually enabled Serbia to work in an extremely profitable way when it comes to its economy and at the worst time of the pandemic. The fall, or what we noticed from the Energy Agency's report, that the losses on the 11% network are, in fact, showing that new investments in this area are needed. I think it's somewhere, your participation as a representative of the Agency in all these working groups that the Ministry of Energy announced, and we'll have opportunities here in the Assembly in about two weeks to a month to discuss. We will have new laws on energy efficiency, on energy, changes and additions, on renewable energy sources and on mining, shows in fact that Serbia has decided to go through green energy and that simply, this step we need to make, I think it will bring inflows of these foreign direct investments in this area and that Serbia will also go towards high growth rates when it comes to the economy. The licenses that are issued at 10 years, of course, we all think that we should probably think about new legal solutions, because what happened 10 years ago is changing in a dizzy way today, and what we need to think about in the future is how to carry out a new certification, when it comes to interested investors, and precisely because that administration needs to be as effective as possible, so that we can simply realize what we've drawn out. Now, when we talk about the energy sector in 2020, it is the consequence, in fact, of working in 2019, at the time of the biggest crisis, that Serbia did not stop in 2020, when it comes to the energy sector, but it has ended certain investments when we talk about the transmission of electricity to build new cables, and it is within 2.8 kilometers, when it comes to "Belgrade 23", "Kostolac" 64 kilometers, when it comes to "Mirdnik 4" of 25 megawatts is connected, the "Drmno" facility to the 110km network, but 12 projects have been completed when we talk about trafostations. That's what's important. I think we're talking about Kragujevac 2, the King's 3, the power line that refers to these trafostations. Then, we have from the distribution of electricity 11 trafostations related to "Belgrade 2", five trafostations is the fitting of a mobile facility for a covid hospital in Batajnica, as we are talking about joining the trafostations for the hospital in Kruševec. As you can see, energy is an integral part of the fight against the pandemic. In addition to building all these large objects, you know that respirators that serve to keep people alive who have the most difficult forms of Kovid 19 can't function without an adequate power grid, without adequate trafocells. These two hospitals that were built during the pandemic couldn't have done without the support of the energy sector. When we talk about renewable energy sources, 10 new power plants were put into operation in 2020 with an installed power of 15.3 megawatts and they show that Serbia really does not stand in that percentage of renewable energy sources in total participation, as the Energy Community said in its report. It said there was a decline in the incidence of renewable energy sources, 21.2% is the biggest user, or the producer of renewable sources is Đerdap, but there was always 21.2%, that we fell to 20.3%. I don't think these statistics were taken into account, where 12 projects were completed. I think a lot of things about the statistics themselves should possibly be opened by the Agency to actually open a project with the Bureau of Statistics so that in an adequate way these data would really come to international institutions, given that they are dealing with certain data that can be seen, and then being subject to certain political pressures, when it comes to energy itself. I therefore consider it very important for the Agency to be involved in certain flows that may not be in your jurisdiction, but through joint projects with other institutions. When I spoke about Alexander Vukic's policy, which is going to meet the changes that are happening in the world, I will say that 195 countries, of course, and it is Serbia that adopted the Paris Agreement in 2015, and the EU has committed itself to reducing the greenhouse effect to 40% by 2020, watching 1990, and Serbia has committed to reducing 9.8%. When we talk about green energy, I will remind you that last August, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic signed an agreement with Altmayer on green energy and investment that should come from Germany and that German investors are very interested in this area, otherwise this is an indication that in the EU the total participation of renewable energy sources is 38%. Coal participation is 37% which is otherwise reduced by 20%, and 25% is nuclear energy. Thus, the trend is in general Europe and the world is of course reducing coal consumption. We know why, in order to protect the environment and the particles, which lead to air pollution, and that's what we're going to talk about next week's Climate Change Act. Serbia is going to meet obviously with all these changes, and somewhere there is a tendency for green energy to be included as a majority consumption. I'll just remind you that Germany, which has the highest percentage, is the target of 50% share of renewables of total electricity consumption, is a country that has 35 thermopower plants, of which 25 are closed, 10 are open, recultivated by the highest standards relating to environmental protection. What does that show? So you can't completely turn off the coal. It is true that the pursuit of the goal is to even protect the environment that there are no thermoelectric power plants. Imagine Serbia that needs to shut down more than 150, 200 thousand jobs overnight, I'm counting, not only directly related to the thermal power plant, but also those who are indirect users and work with thermal power plants. Imagine Serbia that stops producing electricity that has problems, so where you automatically collapse your country's economic system, it's simply inexhaustible. This sort of thing always goes in phases, you always have step by step somewhere, and these steps are just looking at the adoption of new laws, new solutions, opening new investments and new funds when it comes to the EU, but it also shows that Alexander Vukic yesterday, if you remember what's in Abu Dhabi and will also visit the Kingdom of Bahrain, was just talking about the animation of investors and the UAE. So last year, contact with EU countries, with the strongest EU country in terms of renewable energy sources, with Germany, signing the Green Energy Agreement. Yesterday's meeting with the Secretary-General of the Energy Community, to open new chapters on green energy, to adopt new legal solutions and to leave the UAE, to discuss green energy. So it's actually moving towards challenges that await us and manage exactly the situations Serbia needs to give itself as a task. If we don't introduce or adopt such laws, if we don't invest large funds as a state by 2030 in green energy, we'll pay three times as much for what you haven't introduced as new types of energy and as new investments. That is why it is very important to react at a given time, namely, adequately, by leading the responsible foreign and domestic policy of your country and to show in fact how important this citizens' interest is to live well and have a future in their own country. I think it is very important that we talk about Serbia's energy policy today, as an integral part of a developed economic policy of the Republic of Serbia and that we do not have such responsible politicians, such as Aleksandar Vukic, we could not talk about it and we could not talk about the future of our children. That is why we will accept this report in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3903	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Since there are no more registered presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3904	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, MPs, respected representatives of the Energy Agency, is today your Report. What I'm trying to say is that he's very exhausted and contentable. I would like to commend your address to the National Assembly, to the MPs. You gave very clear and precise explanations and as far as the MPs' groups of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasants' Party are concerned, we will vote for the adoption of this report. Energy policy and energy stability are strategically important for every country, hence, and for our country. How sensitive this is, and how sensitive this is, the fact that most of the conflict, the neural points in the world, is happening right now in places that are rich in energy sources. Very often among allies on the international scene and among partners there are misunderstandings in terms of energy and energy stability. We see that the object of a dispute between traditional allies, such as Germany and the United States, is the issue of North Stream. It's just saying how important the subject we're talking about today is. I want to highlight the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia, to commend it, because in time it understood the importance of energy stability with the construction of Turkey's current. Our country and our economy and our citizens have become energy secure and secure. I also want to point out that through the Washington Agreement, where possible gas diversification is envisaged, it also provides a certain stability to our country, opening up a possible and possible possibility. What I want to point out, when it comes to the price of electricity, we are running a very responsible policy, which concerns the most vulnerable groups of our citizens, such as pensioners, such as young couples. I think the government should continue with this policy and certainly have absolute support in our parliamentary group. What I want to point out, as regards the concrete life of citizens, especially the works of Serbia where I come from, from the Sandzak area, is that we with the agreement with the strongest party, the SNS, have predicted something called the gasification of that space. I would like to point out that I am really proud to vote for the adoption of this budget that envisions the construction of the pipeline to Tutina and Novi Pazar in this financial year, and this agreement provides for other municipalities, such as Prijepolje, Pryboj, Nova Varoš and Sjenica. It's important from a few aspects. First, because there is no arrival of large foreign investors without gasification. So it's the cheapest energy big companies need. Secondly, it is also pure energy, and we have a situation that Novi Pazar has been very often declared the city this year that has the most polluted air in Serbia, in the region and the third one was in the world behind Beijing and New Delhi for a time. So, with this, we will solve a fundamental problem, and this is proof that our strategic commitment, integration and support to this government of the Republic of Serbia will have a concrete effect on the life of ordinary citizens, and this is the first time that has happened in a Sandzak party, a Bosniak party to put citizens' priorities first in agreement with the country's leading party, not individual functions. We are proud of our partners who and our people, and give absolute respect to all citizens through dialogue and through this agreement we will solve what are the burning issues of all citizens. As far as electricity is concerned, I have to mention that this agreement we signed involves replacing low voltage and high voltage grids. So we can also not talk about economic development if we have a situation this year in December, January, a few days of citizens and citizens and in Prijepolje and Novi Varosha and on Pestera, Sjenica, Tutin, the mineral parts of the town of Novi Pazar did not have electricity. With this replacement, citizens will receive regular supplies and we will provide something that is a burning problem for our country is the staying of people in these mines and states and returning young people to the country. What I also want to point out is when I'm talking about this topic in order to have economic development, in order to have investments, it's necessary to build new substations. Especially here, we have an express problem when it comes to the municipalities of Tutin and the municipalities of Prepolje. So, businessmen in the municipality of Prepolje, when it comes to the village of Velika Župa, have repeatedly pointed out and local self-government has pointed out, I want to mention, but even in a conversation with the largest representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are working on finding a problem building a trafo station in the village of Velika Župa. Once again, I would like to point out that in the voting day we will support your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3905	I thank my colleague and your MP group no longer has time. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3906	Thank you. Dear Chairman, representatives of the Energy Agency, we are today discussing the report on the work of the Energy Agency for 2019, from which we can learn about the situation in the energy sector in Serbia in a comprehensive way. The importance of the Agency, and thus the report that we are talking about today, is so much bigger if we look at it from the point of view that it is directly concerned with regulation of all energy prices, i.e. guaranteed electricity and gas supply for households, the price of access to electricity, gas transport, electricity distribution, as well as oil and oil derivatives. So it's about a wide range of businesses that are largely affecting not only the quality of life of citizens, but also the state of economy and at all this area in Serbia. As far as the report itself is concerned, he's quite detailed, but I would only single out a few things that I think deserve more attention. First, we see from the report that the security of electricity supply, natural gas and oil derivatives in 2019 was at a satisfactory level. However, it may be necessary to pay attention here to the information my colleague from the parliamentary group, Jasmina, said that the consumption of electricity in households was reduced by only 0.6% compared to the previous year, as well as the presence of an extremely low degree of household gasification. There may be potential for greater growth in this sector, but it must be monitored by the proper development of gas infrastructure and the state is actively working on it. I expect that in the next period she will show her results. At the same time, it has increased in industry, which clearly shows that industrial production is on the rise and that's good because we see a positive trend in growth when it comes to it. The 2025 energy development strategy of the Republic of Serbia with projections by 2030 proposed a path to market restructuring and technological modernisation of the Republic of Serbia's energy, in order to better prepare for this period ahead, which is the period of growth of a general demand for goods and services, and we must be prepared for that. I think the Strategy in a good way regulates it so that we can welcome what will certainly be our task in the future. The application of the Energy and Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia should create an appropriate energy policy so that, with an adequate economic and social policy, as well as a policy in the field of environmental protection, we can go towards a sustainable energy system and a more efficient economy that will certainly contribute to the overall progress of the Republic of Serbia. Today, it is clear that energy is one of the sectors of the economy that has the biggest negative impact on the environment, and its based on conventional energy sources is a real threat to the sustainability of economic flows. The non-renewable nature of the world's most commercial and most representative energies of all today, such as coal, oil and gas, is a very important feature of global energy, and it affects the sustainable future, i.e. the possibility of the present generations to achieve economic growth, i.e. that they do not deny the possibility of enjoying the benefits that we have today. According to a report by the Secretariat of the Energy Community in the Western Balkans, the creation of policies and regulations relating to energy and energy transition has not yet been fully completed. That applies to us, too. The most critical and challenging task on the road to carbon neutrality is to first bring down the share of fossil fuels in electricity production, which is now over 61%. So, to conclude, the EU is one of the biggest advocates of improving energy efficiency in the Balkans, I think it is important that we take advantage of all the benefits and all the EU's assistance in this regard, and Serbia itself has shown its clear intention and determination to adopt those EU rules and standards in the area of energy efficiency, following the EU in this regard. That's why the SDPS in Voting Day will support the adoption of your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3907	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic. Before I give you my word, the remaining time of your parliamentary group is five minutes. Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3908	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, distinguished citizens, today we are talking about the report on the work of the Energy Agency for 2019, and this report contains a report on the situation in Serbia's energy sector, which comes from the Agency's competence and the Agency's work report and financial operations. I'll look back at your presentation on both of these documents. First, as regards the Agency's Labour and Financial Business Report, it should be said that the Agency is a single regulatory body, established to improve and direct the development of electricity and natural gas markets, with principles of non-discrimination, market development and effective competition, and one of the objectives of the Agency is consumer protection and investor protection. The Energy Act of December 2014 significantly strengthened the role of the Agency and extended its competences in the form of certification and licensing, regulation of energy market surveillance prices, etc. It should also be mentioned here that the work of the Agency shall be managed by the Board of the Agency which shall take all decisions on matters of the competence of the Agency with the President and four members. The report itself shows that on the road to the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, one of the essential obligations of the Energy Agency, as a regulatory body and the achievement of full independence that makes it functional, personal and financial independence. The subject of European Commission monitoring in the EU accession process is precisely this full independence of the Energy Agency and that is the answer to the question of whether it should exist, and whether this independence exists, I say of course it exists and I would even say maybe more than that. As far as the Agency's financial independence is concerned, the Agency does not depend on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so neither does the executive authority, i.e. The governments of the Republic of Serbia, or any state authority, because it is financed from the revenues it has achieved in the business it deals with. However, as the Agency's budget is being filled with citizens of Serbia at the end of the line, and the National Assembly is a representative home of citizens, that and that independence are subject to one kind of control and that is the control of the National Assembly. In accordance with the law, the President and members of the Council at least once a year submit a report to the National Assembly on their work, which also contains data on financial operations, verified by an independent auditor. Although this is the 2019 report, and now in 2021, the audit, as you say, is in progress in the report itself, so you didn't deliver it, and we didn't get it. The other important thing I'd like to say is people, where you're openly saying that one of the biggest problems that the Agency has been facing for years is a lack of quality personnel. Out of the total number of employees, 89% have high professional training and completed special schools and training in the field of regulation, so that they have specific knowledge and experience. I can fully agree with you here because the right fit should be found first and then paid for, which JS has repeatedly been spoken of by JS President Dragan Markovic Palm, that quality people who give results should be paid. You find in this report that this lack of personnel is due to significantly slower growth in the Agency compared to the public and private sectors in the energy sector. I think you're absolutely right because the report says that since 2014, there has been no increase in salary in your Agency. Since I don't know what the salaries in the field of energy are, and I just heard from the reporters that people who left the agency in 2019, 11 of them went for much higher wages, and I even heard some figures from 12 to 15 thousand euros being spoken, I looked at your financial report saying that the average net profit, if I calculated correctly, is about 165 thousand. It's just saying that in the future, you're going to have a lot of trouble with the frames if we talk about these sums. So something else could be done to keep these frames. By the way, the Agency's work and financial business report itself is very detailedly written and reflects the real picture of the Agency's work. As for the report on the situation in Serbia's energy sector, which is within the Agency's competence, I can also say that it has been done quite detail and quality and I agree with you that it is one of the most comprehensive reports I have seen. From that report, I would single out and look first of all at the price of electricity, because it's one of your responsibilities, so price regulation. Here you compared electricity prices for households in Serbia with prices in other European countries where prices are clearly seen to be very low in our country. Since everyone can say that the standard of living of citizens must be paralleled with electricity prices in order to create a real picture, you have given the structure of the selling price of electricity reduced to the parity of purchasing power of citizens, which is particularly dear to me, because it can also be seen that we are here at the top. Only Stockholm and Helsinki have a relationship between profits and electricity prices more favourable than in Serbia, or Belgrade. Also, someone can say that the standard of living in Belgrade is higher than in southern Serbia, for example, in the Jablanic and Pcinj County, which is, realistically, true. But here you have given a detailed picture of energy-hazarded customers where they are allowed to use certain benefits and financial resources to protect the socially endangered, i.e. Energy-hazarded customers are provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The protection of these customers at budget cost creates assumptions for faster development of market energy. I would call on all citizens who have the conditions to exploit these benefits, since you said that the number of people who used these benefits is multiple is smaller than the real situation. In any case, such a detailed and quality report as is before us today, the PG of Unity Serbia will support it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3909	Thank you. The word is from MP Tihomir Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3910	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable President and Associates of the Energy Agency, the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for its work corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and reports on work and financial operations annually at least. The document also contains a report on the situation in the energy sector of the Republic of Serbia, which is within the authority of this agency. This report on the energy sector includes an overview of the situation in the electricity market, natural gas and part of oil and petroleum products, as well as the security of their supply. We see from this report for 2019 that the Energy Agency successfully carried out the tasks of its competence in that year: certification and licensing, price regulation, control of the energy market, settlement of complaints and protection of customers and international co-operation as the most important. The agency all seemed to provide non-discriminatory access to systems, as well as effective competition and efficient functioning of electricity and natural gas markets. We see from this report that what's most important, which is that the energies are fully controlled by both the Agency and our state. Energys are all the key to the strong development of all mankind in the last two centuries, as well as the key precondition and survival and development of each country today, more than ever before. Therefore, an important part of this report of the Agency was its assessment that the security of electricity supply, natural gas and oil derivatives in 2019 was stable and satisfactory and we can demonstrate our special satisfaction that this was true for the last year, 2020 which was significantly more challenging due to the effects of the Kovid pandemic. We see from the report that the total consumption of electricity in 2019 was approximately at the level of 2018. For pro For the production of electricity in Serbia, we heard from more colleagues, it is a characteristic high proportion of coal and low calorie lignite, about 49%. This on the one hand allows relatively high country energy independence and electricity production at relatively lower and stable costs, but on the other hand, and this will be more and more yearly, very negatively affecting the environment, through a high concentration of Sumbor dioxide, but also through a high concentration of carbon dioxide and impact on the negative effect of the glass garden. The separation of operators, transmission and distribution systems, as natural monopolies from operators performing the market activities of production and supply, is one of the most important tasks in the market reform of this sector. As a result, the reorganisation and reform of the public undertaking EPS has been carried out in previous years and are completed or organised in the end, related to the formation of two special enterprises. One is EMS a.d. for transmission of electricity and transmission system management that is 100% state-owned. The second is the public company EPS distribution d.o.o. established by the EPS Public Enterprise as a dependent society. For the distribution of electricity and management of the distribution system. Of course, Serbia's largest electricity producer, 93.5% of the total installed power is the EPS Public Enterprise, but there are more and more small power plants and we see from this report, as of 2019 that there were 311 connected to the distribution system. Of which, 18 is owned by EPS. Consciously greater needs of the population, especially businesses due to Serbia's strong planned development in the coming period, but also to meeting the EU's commitments to protect the environment, the state leadership has invested significant money in the energy sector. It started with the realization of the most important projects, the construction of the Third Block Te Kostolac B, as well as the construction of the Te Toplana Pančevo. The National Plan 2020-2025 has planned large investments in the energy sector. The Agency's report also confirms that in 2019, and we are happy to confirm this again for 2020, natural gas supply was regular and satisfactory. The production of natural gas in Serbia, more specifically in Vojvodina, deals only with the oil industry NIS a.d. After significant growth, we see from this report in 2011, the year 2012 gas production was constantly dropping, and in 2019 it was 12.5% less than in 2018. The transport of natural gas in Serbia is carried out by two operators, the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" 95% of the total transport pipeline network belongs to them and "Yugorozgas Transport" Nis 5%. Due to this tendency to introduce competition in the distribution of natural gas, the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" has made a decision to set up an addictive society to carry out the work of natural gas distribution, the distribution of "Gas Serbia" d.o.o. It's new now, but it hasn't started yet. The use of natural gas as the most desirable from the ecological point of view of energy has a realistic perspective because a transport network has already been built in Serbia in areas where five million live, about 70% of citizens. In particular, thanks to the great effort of state leadership led by President Vukic, the work on the gas pipeline so-called "Vucica" has been completed. The Turkish course of action that passes through Serbia from Bulgaria-Serbia to the Serbian-Hungarian border, near Zaječar, to the vicinity of Horgosa, 402km in length. This provided an alternative supply direction, as well as a strong and secure basis for our country's strong development. We Užicani can be particularly satisfied with the data from this report, which suggests that in 2019 the largest percentage increase in the length of the distribution network in Serbia, after "Srbigas" increased by 8.58% by the distribution network operator "Užice gas". For more than 20 years, the Ubiquitans have set aside millions in euro for the city's gasification. Good projects have succeeded in receiving a donation of about fivem euros from the EU and multimillion euros, again in euros, from the government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period. This gasification is one of the basic conditions for the arrival of foreign investors with what thanks to President Vukic's key, which is the arrival of the highway near Užica. We know by the end of this year that it will reach Požega, and then it continues through the territory of the town of Užica to Visegrad. Serbia, we heard first of all from my esteemed colleague Veroljub Arsic, president of the Committee on Economy, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, who spoke very professionally and effectively about it. Serbia is a member of the Energy Community with seven other Southeast European and Black Sea countries. The community signed contracts with the EU. The current one, this second one, is valid until July 2026, which has made commitments to implement EU energy law, environmental protection, competition for consumer protection, etc. It is important for Serbia to be part of this energy community, as this is a way to prepare for EU entry in the energy area. The objective EU requires huge efforts from Serbia, primarily huge financial investments. The contract requires Serbia and we should have already achieved the participation of 27% renewable energy sources in total energy production is now at about 21%, to invest huge money in billions of euros in the reconstruction of existing and construction of new thermal power plants that meet demanding environmental standards, to reform the natural gas power distribution sector in order to increase competition, etc. We have seen, above all, in this exhaustive statement by counterpart Veroljub Arsic, that there is a real danger to our energy system, and thus the whole country since the attempts by large world companies to impose their natural and understandable interests, but which go to the detriment of Serbia and its public enterprises in the field of energy. On the other hand, there are obligations for Serbia to adapt to the rules applicable in the EU. But there is no doubt that our state leadership, President Aleksandar Vukic, will, above all, be able to find the best way to protect the interests of Serbian citizens in the energy sector, as he has fought despite the strong pressure of some major world players to participate in Serbia's so-called shares. Turkey's flow from Bulgaria to Hungary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3911	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Djordje Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3912	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I thank you first of all for understanding. Dear representatives of the Agency, as already said, is the regulatory body in the field of energy which is completely independent from other executive authorities, and was established to direct the development of the market in the fields of electricity and natural gas. The Agency's legal powers include the consistency of its work with Serbia's energy policy and the Energy Development Strategy, which has already been discussed. The Energy Strategy is now in effect for the period until 2025. The key objectives are reliable, safe and quality provision of citizens and businesses with energy and energy, improvement of production in accordance with standards of environmental protection and the creation of a sustainable energy system, while increasing the use of renewable energy. So, clearly and precisely defined objectives through the Strategy, goals that are to be achieved through the Strategy by 2025. Specific legal powers and activities of the Agency are the development of the electricity market and the monitoring of the situation in the domestic market and the monitoring of the situation in the energy sector and the promotion of efficient functioning of the energy system, as well as the provision of high standards of service in the supply of electricity and gas to consumers with a particular concern for the protection of energy-hazarded customers. The Agency shall issue and licenses for the performance of energy performance, create a stable legal framework for consumers, customers, investors in the energy sector, and what is very important for citizens is that the Agency forms methodologies for the determination of prices, i.e. energy prices. We must agree that the price of energy in Serbia is not an economic price, it is a price that expresses concern about the paying power of our consumers. We are free to say that it is a matter, that our energy sector is a socially responsible component of the state and that is what is particularly supported by the SPS parliamentary group. The report we are discussing today, in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group, is very large, comprehensive, contains data on the Agency's work and financial business and on the situation in the energy sector of the Republic of Serbia. The energy sector is extremely important for each country, as energy security is closely linked to import dependence, and thus to the overall position of the state in relation to external factors above all. Only a state that provides its production with a high level of energy can be considered stable and can be considered safe because it cannot be life or development without energy. To live without electricity, we just can't imagine it. At the world level, energy and energy are one of the major conditions of global security. We know, unfortunately, that oil also led to wars. Today, when all countries are interlinked and conditioned, energy interdependent, it is very important to develop domestic energy sources on the one hand, and on the other hand to have reliable partners in the world from which missing energy can be provided. This market is multilayered and complex and is often targeted by major political interests. That's why it's said that energy security is a condition of every country's security. Serbia is fortunately a significant energy producer, because it has a lot of natural resources. We get clean energy using hydro potentials, and we have a lot of coal reserves that still have a dominant energy source in Serbia that allows relative energy independence. At the same time, because of the use of this resource, more and more requirements for the introduction of environmental standards and the protection of the environment, which we have been doing as a country in recent years. There are several current projects that will address the environmental consequences of coal use. We know that the current project is to move to the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant in Obrenovac. The new ecological forms of energy production are our new challenge, but also one, I would say, perspective. This is the introduction of renewable energy sources into our energy sector and we should certainly continue to work on this. The beginning is very good about our opinion and our attitude. According to the Agency that we had the opportunity to look at, in 2019 Serbia's import dependence was about 36.8%, less than the European Union average, which imports as much as 55% of the energy. So Serbia's energy needs are covered by domestic sources with over 63%. Serbia's good path to the energy sector and reduced export dependence are the result of an increase in domestic oil and natural gas production, as well as the completion of one of the biggest investments in the energy sector, the end of the Balkan Stream pipeline, which provides a stable supply of Serbia with Russian gas, which will certainly contribute to further strengthening our overall energy security. So Serbia is a country that has rich resources, an active relationship to these resources in line with the state energy policy, but has provided stable energy supply based on the import component. It is true that energy efficiency needs to be further worked on in all sectors, in order to ensure sustainable use of energy resources and to enable sustainable energy development in line with the global needs of harmonising economic development with environmental protection above all. This approach to the development of the energy sector is necessary and can be ensured primarily by an inter-resor approach, which is the task of the entire sector, but also by competent ministries. So, the key objective, which is to increase domestic production and reduce energy dependence, must be approached by rational use of natural resources, especially by rational use of natural resources, I mean those non-renewable natural resources. What I particularly want to praise in the Agency's report is that very comprehensive and unbiased, I would say, an analysis of the situation in our energy sector that helps us to further profile both strategic and operational objectives in energy. Finally, when it comes to the work of the Energy Agency as a regulator, I would like to commend the activity and commitment of the Agency's Council and all employees both in the reporting year and in general. Of course, the SPS parliamentary group will support the report on the work of the Energy Agency with the Financial Business Report in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3913	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3914	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, respected representatives of the Energy Agency, colleagues and colleagues, although we are discussing the Report of the Energy Agency from 2019, and it has been a long time since then, almost a year and a half, and there have been some changes, especially in this area when we talk about energy, this kind of content and analysis-rich report gives us the opportunity to look back on this topic from different aspects. We can see in the report that the security of electricity supply, gas and oil derivatives in 2019 was at a satisfactory level. This again gives us the opportunity to see the same story on the other side, which is that we need to be aware that if we want to achieve long-term energy stability, that we need to adapt our energy sector to the requirements that are valid both at global level and at European Union level, and primarily on environmental issues. My colleague Jasmina Karanac spoke in detail earlier, and I will point out that Serbia is characterised by the fact that a large amount of coal used primarily for the production of electricity is represented in total primary energy. This, on the one hand, gives us one independence, energy independence in relation to other countries and lowers the cost of electricity production, but on the other hand, the use of low-calorie lignite in this production process affects the environment badly, we have a lower quality of air. We need to deal with this issue in the future and improve this area and focus on some kind of cleaner energy. That may be our weak spot, but not just the weak spot in Serbia, but throughout the world, and more attention on the global level is surrounding the issue of energy and environmental relations. I will remind you that in order to prevent global warming and environmental protection, almost all countries in the world have committed themselves to achieving zero emissions by 2050. It's a long-term, ambitious plan. I'll give some examples, positive, of course, examples from Japan and Denmark to point out how they approach this issue. In Japan, after a tragedy in Fukushima ten years ago, less and less popular nuclear energy and their strategy is to invest intensively in renewable energy sources. They have defined themselves to build wind turbines in the sea, and their goal is to increase the use of coastal wind to produce energy four times. Interesting practice comes from Denmark, which for 40 years has produced energy from excess straw, an interesting example that is not characteristic of the rest of the world. For us, an optimal solution, I would say, building a good gas infrastructure and using natural gas is a good way to accept ecological types of energy, because it is precisely gas that can replace coal in that energy production in a short period of time. Another aspect to which more attention should be paid is energy efficiency. It involves a number of measures we take to reduce energy consumption, and the path to this goal starts from each of us, from each household and should resort to effective solutions, above all, in residential areas and beyond. I will also refer to the part of the Energy Agency's report on energy losses in the distribution network. These losses were lower in 2019 than in 2018, but yet still so lower, it remains a high value compared to the one technically justified. It will certainly be necessary to find an adequate solution in the future to this problem. We expect the Energy Agency to continue to work on creating a regulatory framework for the development of an efficient and sustainable energy system, as a good momentum for further development of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3915	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is from the MP Nikola Radosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3916	The esteemed chairman, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, respected Mr. Dejana Popovic with his associates, is now on the daily work of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. According to the Agency and Energy Act of the Republic of Serbia, the Energy Agency has an obligation to report once a year to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to this report, the Agency has an obligation to endure both the current situation and the current state in the energy sector. Mr Popovic, I have carefully listened to you, your presentation, read the report which is extensive and I agree with everything mentioned in the report, so today I will support this report and vote for it. Today, we are witnessing numerous speculations from individual media that bring great and numerous lies, fearing the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in a desire to destroy the system by not choosing the funds. First, they frighten citizens of the Republic of Serbia by the Law on the Origin of Assets, of the god that citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be deprived of property, and the Law clearly defined how investigations will be conducted and if one's property is found to be illegally acquired, the subject of the investigation will be taken away. When the case of the Energy Act, some citizens of Serbia, from Jagodina, probably Despotovac, where you come from, asked me if Serbia's Elektroprivreda would take away their electricians, i.e. The number of electricity consumption, of course, is guided by what they have just heard from these individual media. We need to explain to the citizens of Serbia, and you will correct me and supplement me, as you have long experience in the work in the electricity industry, that users, i.e. The numbered persons sign a contract with Serbia's Elektroprivred on the takeover of numbers, where they have no costs in connection with the takeover and all in accordance with the Energy Act. This contract obliges Serbia's Elektroprivreda to bear all costs and to have the obligation to maintain the equipment, numbers, measuring closets, connection lines, installations and other equipment. Here the question is now – if Elektroprivreda becomes the owner of this equipment, will the user be able to close the contract with another distributor? Well, of course he can. The user has the right to choose according to his assessment of the distributor, i.e. the most favourable distributor and supplier of electricity, which he considers to be the most favourable price for him and that there are no additional costs, except to pay the energy spent to his supplier. In the event that the user does not want to sign the contract with the Elektroprivred Serbia, in practice it means that the user bears maintenance alone, as well as the costs of replacing the worn-out equipment. We know that in the Republic of Serbia many households have exactly analogue numbers and that it moves on to a modern system of measurement, so this would be one difficult circumstance for all citizens and all users who are users. The obvious intention of certain media is to destabilise Serbia, so in every way possible they want everything that is good for Serbian citizens to play as if it were bad. The aim of the takeover of measuring devices, measuring cabinets, connection lines, installation is to discharging users from future maintenance costs, and all according to compliance with the Energy Act. So, I have to get involved, the Freedom and Justice Party, Gilas's party and the media who favored them, accused the chief editors of the "Alo" list just because they pointed out and showed the link between the arrested criminal group and the research portal "Krik". After this publication in the list "Alo" Gilasov dobosari, Marinika Tepic and Borko Stefanovic are racing for more lies to bring to the expense of the president of the Republic of Serbia and his family. In that race, they lose step, so hasty and probably without much thinking and themselves admit that President Aleksandar Vukic, during the earlier period, was just tapped. Also, they suddenly find some co-workers at the police ministry, who give them some records, giving themselves their own connection to certain persons in the Serbian Ministry of Interior. What exactly is their goal? Their goal is to show that President Aleksandar Vukic was not politically tapped, but that he had fallen into a conversation with persons who were on track. Their goal is to criminalise President Alexander Vukic and his family. Minister Vulin said clearly in this high house a few days ago that President Aleksandar Vucic was exclusively politically tapped and 1.572 times, perhaps more. They are most in pain that there is absolutely nothing in these conversations that would indicate that the president or members of his family were doing something illegal or having some suspicious conversation. No persons who had some criminal record or were under some criminal investigation have been picked to listen, but they have just been selected persons close to the Vukic family and President Alexander Vukic himself, which is precisely what we are proving to these claims that he is merely being tapped for political reasons. Some media are forgetting that the one on whose orders are the behesters Marinika Tepic and Borko Stefanovic are just the person to deal with investigative journalism, because someone who enters politics with 74 000 euros, with the used car of the Saab brand and the wife's house, and for a short time, while performing a public office, acquires so much wealth of 619 million, it is precisely the one that should be the subject of research. Most likely the idea of starting a business came to him listening to a song – I turned on the radio this morning and then heard about the ad, looking for a window washer, the salary is quite decent. These are the lyrics of Tony Montana's "Window Washer" and it is obvious that these very lyrics were inspiration and ideas for Dragan Gilas to start his business, except in this song Tony Montana, this window washer has a very decent salary, while our window washer, Dragan Gilas, has a salary of 619m euros. We almost had in the National Assembly the amendments to the Law on the Origin of Assets which was here on the agenda and the biggest criticism came from Gilas's dobosar Borko Stefanovic, who was obviously never clear, and he criticises something nonstop. It was not clear to him in 2016 when elections were needed to be called the electoral list, as according to the law of the electoral list can stand the bearer of the list where he placed himself as the bearer of the list Borko Stefanovic, and his real name was then Borislav Stefanovic. Instead of correcting his list's name, he makes a decision to pay a republican tax, to go to the interior ministry, apply and change his name from Borislav to Borko. That's how we got politician Borko Stefanovic. What can his best man, former vice-consul in the United States, Igor Milosevic, who is known for the affair of illegal passport release, to enable the person close to Borko Stefanovic and his uncle Mirko Stefanovic to help out from the United States when he committed a crime and thus was caused by an international scandal. The Republic of Serbia had to from its budget, from Serbian citizens, to pay compensation to that person who was damaged worth $1m. It is so when those who know how to criticise, and to hide all this, they have declared this case Borko Stefanovic and Vuk Jeremic a state secret about what my esteemed colleague Nebojsa Bakarec wrote. I wonder how many of these state secrets there are during Jeremic, Stefanovic and Djilas, how many three of them have total damaged the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. How much of this money could, Mr Popovic, be invested in Serbia's energy system, energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, environmental protection and other needs. Finally, I would like to conclude that today in the voting day, the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children" will vote for this report by the Energy Agency but we will continue to remind citizens of the Republic of Serbia daily how much Djilas, Tepic, Jeremic, Solak and Borko Stefanovic have damaged the Republic of Serbia and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3917	The word is by MP Velibor Stanojlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3918	Dear citizens, we are talking about an extremely important topic today, and this is the subject of the Energy Agency Report. We received a comprehensive and extensive report from the Agency and I would like to commend Mr Popovic on this detailed presentation regarding the Energy Agency. The very important thing for our country is the stability that we have at this point, as far as electricity is concerned, as well as the stability of gas. One of the biggest investments in the last 30 years that is extremely important for our country is the "Balkan Stream", which passed and which was released last year before the new year. I come from the Municipality of the Great Plan, through which the same stream passes, and on whose territory the municipality's border with the neighbouring municipality is building the largest compressor station in this part of Europe, worth over a billion euros. This project will allow the state not only to make transit revenues, but also cheaper gas prices in the coming period and easier connection for all households, for the economy of that same gas. Serbia is developing economically, requiring an increasing consumption of electricity. The report on electricity supply is very important and what represents one of our country's social affairs is that price of electricity. I've had insight into most of the things that have been going on in this, perhaps the largest company in the region for years. The essence of all this is the investment and modernisation of the same company and investment in it, as the minister, Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, announced for the next period. All those things that have not been changed in the distribution system for over 30, 40 years, on measuring devices, all that is foreseen in the next period. One of the most important things is this “Balkan Corridor” that will supply from Obrenovac to Baja’s garden is the strength of 2x400 kW. Replacement of measuring devices, setting up remote reading devices, preventing unauthorized consumption is all that will reduce the losses my predecessors spoke of. This is very important, because by reducing the loss, we will reduce the production of electricity and thus all that we have announced and through the Environmental Protection Act we will get by reducing consumption and reducing the production of electricity, we will also reduce the increase of all these pollutants that are one of the burdens in our country. There's also a smoke-discharge facility in the Tent-A Termo power plant coming to an end soon. The same thing the minister announced, which is a license that is very important, for citizens to know, which Serbia's Elektro-distribution will get in the next period, is what we haven't been able to get for years and that will make it easier for us to manage distribution systems. We're all in the energy transition process together. Serbia's electricity will invest hundreds of millions because it is a matter of our citizens' health and also of economic development. The Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, and I will vote for this report by the Energy Agency together on the voting day. I would advise the citizens that the Serbian government, together with the National Assembly, will continue to pass investment laws in this sector and provide energy stability to all citizens, both by gas and electricity, which is an indication that Serbia is in an exceptional economic rise and that we will be a strategic and energy carrier in the Balkans. The highest credit is President Aleksandar Vukic, who therefore has this much support in the people. I thank and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3919	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3920	Thank you, Chairman. Gentlemen of the Energy Agency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, today on the agenda Annual report on the work of the Energy Agency for 2019, but will speak something different. Namely, I'll talk about the pests, the parasites that robbed Serbia's electricity, and there's material here in a month. I will want to tax the story, that people know what's going on in the Republic of Serbia from 2000 to 2012. You're a disgrace. A US institute reportedly, and the report says that from 2000 to 2012, the Republic of Serbia has been torn apart by 100 billion euros. You know, when I read that data -- 100 billion euros, I mean, impossible. One hundred billion euros, so we could pay back four debts of the Republic of Serbia. And only 50 billion euros were taken out of the country. You're a disgrace. Well, we exist. Thanks to our president, we are returning both debts and revitalising this Serbian economy that has been completely devastated, but we are going in turn. So, let the citizens of the Republic of Serbia remember, from 2000 to 2012, 50 billion euros were raised from the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia is short of 100 billion euros. Unbelievable, but it's true. Let's go in line, as far as the EPS is concerned, see how things are, who was and who was, who were all parasites. Parasite Solak, source of "Kurir", is not to be again -- said Ljilja Malusic. She didn't say, but this is the exact data. Solak not only usurped EPS and power plants' assets, but also secretly hooked up to citizens' electricians. Can you imagine, someone who has a billion and 200m euros, who belongs to the richest Serbs, that he could climb the streamers of poor citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whose average salary is now, thanks to the president, 550 euros, at the time of 320 euros. You're a disgrace. You're a disgrace. His 36m-euro fee was paid by tenants, paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to this multibillionaire, who is richer than Miskovic, who is richer than Gilas, a thief. All thieves to thieves. The illegal use of public goods and state property was a crucial starter advantage that United Group co-owner Dragan Solak grabbed for his SBB, then only one of the many cable operators and enabled him to form a competition and dominant position on the growing market. A major survey by Kurira has shown that the abduction of foreign infrastructures by EPS and Belgrade Power Plants and unscrupulous business has been built into the very foundations of Solak's business, which today led him to the position of Serbia's richest tycoon. I just told you that he has 1.2 billion right now, he's growing his capital, and it would be nice to remember, he doesn't even pay taxes here, which is a tragedy, instead of loving this country, he's paying taxes on Malta somewhere, who knows where he pays and who he pays, to give a little, 500 million states, to recover this country. They're patriots. It came out that for years, according to the Belgrade citizens, in residential buildings, the SBB was illegally taking electricity from joint and private currents, which was paid by tenants of these buildings, without giving consent, or even knowing what was going on. So we have, 36m euros, the gentleman took from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have taxed names, names of people who came forward because they know that he stole them, among other things, Mr. Drincic from Belgrade and hundreds of them. In view of the latest doubts that these are not isolated cases, but examples of well-insulated practices, EPS experts have calculated that the SBB in 20 years, I must say again, has mutilated citizens of the Republic of Serbia for 36m euros. That's how rich tycoons get, this way. I think this is embarrassing, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that something like this must never happen again. The SBB document, which appeared in the media, is spent by about 16 kilowatts per SBB electrician, which was estimated at 800,000 users for the estimated 30,000. Please, this is terrible. I mean, 800,000 users in Serbia are damaged. It takes a nice cab to get everybody to report, one lawsuit, to get a man's money back to everyone, to get back to this country, so let's move on. Let's move on. Gilas' flyer, Marinika, wanted to recalibrate the EPS, imagine that Gilas's flyer was trying to recalibrate the EPS. How is that possible? The most famous political flyover, we know for Marinika Tepic that she has changed six political options, six political parties, from her employer or better said to the employer, Mr Dragan Djilas, has received one feature, which is love for money. And while Gilas from the people of Serbia and the state cashiers crouched over his marketing agencies, selling seconds, I would say the fog, his favorite Marinika Tepic reached out to faster methods, taught by her friends, dealers from Banat. She wanted to recalibrate the EPS to keep quiet about imaginary non-existent affairs. Of course, it's so normal for them. She was extorting a racket, and when she left her empty pockets, then she got mad and started sniffing unions in the EPS to get to the gold chick she wanted to rip. The EPS does not need Marinika to keep silent, on the contrary, as much as Marinika tells lies and cheaply manipulates, these are workers who are more unique in their view that she and her boss, if they accidentally get their hands on EPS, would rob everything they can. Well, it won't work. Let's go, some more dirty shops, simply, if the citizens of the Republic knew what was going on from that year 2000 to 2012, I say, this one's in about three months, but I'll leave something behind for another time so my colleagues can talk. Ex-minister oil and electricity mud, imagine, oil and electricity. Well, is there anyone in this country that doesn't smudge until 2010, more specifically in 2012 at the republic, and in 2010, at the local level, when we won. During Goran Novakovic's mandate, the EPS and NIS allowed Lazarevic and Hamovic's firms to get rich and the state damaged for more than $10m. It's a little bit, 36 there, 10 there, 50 there, 100 here, this one has 619 million euros, this one has 1.2 billion. What would Serbia do with that money if it wasn't robbed? A little power, some oil. Goran Novakovic, a former energy minister, was linked to several affairs in energy during the January 2001 ministry, however, his term of office was short. They say he resigned in 2002. That's not true. He was expelled. In his day, EPS and NIS co-operated with the companies of his godfather, Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic, and NIS bought oil from Cypriot companies. Following the realization of these transactions, several criminal charges have been filed on suspicion that public officials of the EPS have allowed private companies to earn $12m. Dear citizens of Serbia, either, did not happen again. Thanks to the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, we are today processing all those who stole and I am sure that very soon everyone will be behind bars and return the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3921	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an ideal opportunity to paraphrasise Nikola Tesla, a relatively political moment in which we live. If the opposition's hatred, these other Serbians, a large part of the opposition, turned into electricity, would shine on not all of Serbia, but would supply half of Europe with energy. Nikola Tesla said that about the Croats. If their hatred for Serbs turned into energy, they would shine on the whole world. The Serbian opposition, that part of the Serbian opposition that I'm talking about, has overcome Croatian hatred and I think they would hate us more than they would hate us right now, as Mr. Martinovic said in Široki Brg, Imotski, and in Zagreb I would have been far better off than with other Serbians from downtown Belgrade. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there's a Kennedy saying - don't ask what the state is going to do for you, but what are you going to do for, come on, he said for the state, and I'm going to ask what each of us is going to do for ourselves? What are we going to do for ourselves and make it useful for the state? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Proposer, and I still think that the proposer of the act is Mr. Arsic and his committee, and I believe that we are discussing this rather than the report. In my opinion, the report ended when he was discussed on the board. I have a principled view, because it also says in the Rules of Procedure, that there is no limit to the motion of the act, i.e. Mr. Arsic. Also, I think we're too inclined to pay too much attention to those who pay the least attention to us, which is agencies. We often choose members of agencies who have three times our salary. I do not advocate that we have salaries like these allegedly independent representatives, and most of them were found as other calls from DS, other calls from such a party organisation within those agencies. I'm not advocating that we have salaries as Protector of citizens, like the ones we choose not to be so high. I'm betting they have the same pay as us, so let them be lower, that we share the fate together and the ones we choose here. It's not very polite for me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that we choose people who have four, five times the salary. And what Socrates and Plato said, that such men, with such great wages, must be chosen from the people. We've been chosen by the people, and we have three or four times less salaries, so it would be okay for the agencies, in proportion to what we choose, to have at least the same salaries as we do, so, not to argue that they're very high, let's share fate, let's share bread in this country in some equal way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we sold NIS, it wasn't us, it was sold there by some Tadic and Kostunica, for 400m euros or perhaps below 500, if we agree. With NIS, we sold all the oil and gas sites. For example, exploiting domestic oil in one year is 900,000 tons. If we translate it into price something per barrel, tons, etc., we get from 270 to 300 and some million euros on an annual level, only oil, without gas. That's how we're supposed to look at the former government, how harmful she was, how she didn't work for herself or the state. When we work on ourselves and for ourselves, we automatically do something for the state. For example, harvest remains, only from fields, and land manure, are worth 1.7m tonnes of oil in Serbia, worth over 500m euros. We don't use it. We lose it every year because we don't work on ourselves and on our own country. That's over 1% of GDP. Do you know how much we have abandoned land? That's what you're supposed to do in these reports to distract us all, so that we as MPs can do something, and we've already done something. I'm sorry Saska Tomic isn't here. Thanks to us in the Agricultural Land Act, we have introduced that unused agricultural land can be leased to renewable energy producers for 30 years. We fry I don't know how many tons of coal. How much we're going to pay for those carbon dioxide taxes per tonne we're broadcasting, we're just going to see that, and renewable energy, which is within our reach, we're not using. So we burn a million 700,000 tons of oil. So, down the Morava wind blows, the old peasant prefers to burn harvest leftovers. That's a good line, and let's say we don't use enough wind or sun or harvest leftovers. The wood biomass we don't use is another biomass, except for this warlord I already wrote, 1.5 million tons of oil, a total of 3.4 million tons of oil we don't use annually. It's worth over a billion total. We let a billion euros burn, coerce without any energy production. Do we need any outside help? Maybe we don't need money, financial, maybe we need help from Baden-Wirtemberg to teach us about miscantus, about the use of biomass. Germany has weaker conditions than we do, but it pays full attention to renewable energy production. Did you know that he had 350,000 acres of less fertile land not used? Do you know how much it's worth, if you turn it into, say, biodiesel or gas, then electricity? Do we know that every hectare gives 20,000 kilowatts of electricity through biomass exploitation? Did you know that this is the way we lose about 2,000 euros a hectare at least? Do you know it's at 350,000 hectares of seven hundred million euros? Let's add up seven hundred million euros from that billion. Every year we lose not using biomass, wood farming, not using agricultural land that is suitable for the cultivation of miscantus, because it can succeed on weaker fertile soils, there are also uncles etc., but we don't use it. So every year we lose 3% and more GDP, between 3% and 4%. Did you know that agriculture except that it produces agricultural products, plant production, livestock, egg, etc. Can it produce electricity in the way I've already written it? So agriculture can produce biodiesel for its needs and electricity for the processing industry, making meat, milk, eggs and plant production a finished product. We miss that chance every year. Every hectare of untapped land, and burned biomass damages agricultural land, destroys the fertility of that land. Every farmer who burns out of need to plow easier, a biomass that no one buys... Do you know what the chance is for local development? Did you know that our people are running around Serbia into big cities? If we were to use this energy in local communities, it's mainly in rural areas, new jobs would be opened, pressure on large cities and create conditions to return some of the population to such environments through this production of energy and through new jobs and through the food industry, because the money that is being waste in the local community would fall somewhere near small municipalities and small communities. We don't use it. We've become poor rich people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3923	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3924	I can say that counterpart Marijan Risticevic has an inspiring discussion and that many of the things he has presented in his discussion, exactly how we treat the energy and resources that Serbia has, thanks to some bad habits, not to say that through education we have been taught that Serbia is a naturally rich country, that it is rich in energy, etc. And all that rule is one false impression that it can last forever and that we don't need to change or make other commitments or other plans. I can say, it is quite certain, that I also attended a public debate on the new Energy Act that should soon be adopted at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that it should be sent to the MPs for consideration and decision-making and that many of these things that Mr Risticevic spoke of were touched by this law. Because fighting for energy and environmental protection isn't just about some agency, some public enterprise or just a matter of ministries, it's about local self-government, and it's about our habits and customs. However, there is one more thing I must say, and when it comes to employee salaries, it was very easy until 2012 to hire any expert at any state agency or body. Why? It was a high unemployment rate, people thought that if they were working in a state body that they had made sure or at least that they had the security to be their employer, and in international organisations they didn't respect us very much to kidnap those workers. I can tell my colleague Marijan Risticevic that more for our workers who work, our experts working at the Energy Agency are not only kidnapped by the EPS, not by Serbia, but also by European regulatory agencies. If they stopped working in our agency, their salary in European regulatory agencies would be around 15,000 euros. (Marian Risticevic: Even in ours would be.) I don't think so. This only says that our experts are appreciated, not only in Serbia, but in the world and that we should keep those experts and that we should keep our experts here in Serbia, not to discuss whether their salary is higher or less than the parliamentary salary. That makes sense to some officials, but where there's only a waist, where he's seen an engineer, it doesn't just take you five to seven years to finish college, but it takes you a decade and a half, two to really become an expert. We must not give up easily, because when we give them up, then we really won't have anyone to allow that development of Serbia that started in 2012, 2014 and started by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3925	My colleague Rističević, you, according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3926	Art. 106, 107, 108. – direct address is prohibited, and since Mr Arsic addressed directly, let me say that I spoke not about the Energy Agency, but about all agencies, the position of employees, and also about the Citizens' Protector, Regulatory Bodies, etc. where the receipts are much bigger than ours, and we choose and set these people up. I didn't ask us to have less or bigger salaries than to have equal, that they have ours or we have theirs. I agree that the salaries of experts abroad and Europe are far higher than ours, but let's ask Tanja Fajon how much her salary is as an MP in the European Parliament – 15,000 euros. Mine's 95,000 dinars. Martinovic receives, here I am now mistaken, 30,000 dinars. So I'm just asking, because it's a very awkward political position and situation in the state, that the wages be there somewhere equal between us and those we choose, not asking that we have a lot of high wages, but that they get close to our salaries. We don't have to go up, let them get down a little bit and understand that the state at this point, in a political sense, in an economic sense, is a little bit threatened, so that we all get a little squeezed, like we did in the region towards other MEPs who have 5,000 euros, so let's all share bread and fate together. I'm not asking you to vote on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3927	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break and continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3928	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3929	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished members of the Energy Agency, co-workers and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are talking about the Report of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. At the very beginning, I would like to point out and say that it is my special honor to speak on this subject today, especially given that I defended my master's work at the University of Belgrade's Faculty of Economics, under the mentorship of Professor Miomir Jaksic, on the subject of the agency and what investment opportunities are when we talk about the energy sector of the Republic of Serbia. The need for regulation in this area appeared some 30 years ago with the development of market energy and when we talk about Europe in Serbia since 2005 we have an Energy Agency and my mentor was also your colleague in the first Energy Agency advice, so I mention it for the reasons that I have been able to hear and learn from it how the Agency works, how it worked during that period, but what I also have the opportunity to learn from it is that it is indeed the Agency, that the strength of people with express competences, knowledge and experience in the fields of electricity, oil and gas, and that you really have the human capacity for all these 16 years of their existence to perform that role that you were appointed in the future and from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What I would also point out is that you as the Agency have a role to play in regulating the energy market and to find some balance between what is private and some private interest of entities located on the three market, i.e. businesses and households. It is not easy for you to do, especially given that energy is indeed one area, both electricity and oil and gas, which are indeed one of the elements that affect, one of the elements not affecting, but one of the elements of the sovereignty of each country, so both Serbia and you as a national regulatory body have a very difficult task in this regard which, in my opinion, you are fulfilling in a high degree. What I concluded by reading the 2019 Report is that it is comprehensive, accurate and accurate and that we can really get all the necessary information from it when it comes to electricity, oil and gas. When we talk about electricity, what I kind of think, and I think, is that, especially when we talk about electricity transmission, we have really amazing results that all the losses that we're making in the transfer of 2,04%, which we belong to one of the countries with the smallest losses, really one impressive result, but what we might be able to reduce these losses a little bit is in our distribution system. They fell to 11.7% in the last nine years, which is a good result, which is a good indicator. In terms of money, this 11.7% is about 200m euros, or 140m euros. Of those 200m euros, it is those who are eligible costs due to the very structure of electricity consumption, but the rest could, in my opinion, in two ways perhaps improve. One of these, in the previous period, was said in the National Assembly, which is why I am talking about it, there were parliamentary issues on the subject in January of the month, which is a replacement of over one million and 150 thousand wooden pillars located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I'm saying because there were a lot of questions from the citizens addressed to us during that period, because they had a break in the supply of electricity in January. It is quickly removed thanks to its efficiency, but I am saying that by replacing these wooden pillars, by setting up concrete pillars, but also by replacing them with "embarkable", to correct me as it is said, the equipment, perhaps I didn't say well, we could encourage our economic activity and thus speed up our overall economic outcome, start our economy, and also reduce the losses that I was already talking about and what is most important, we get even more stability in supplying electricity to end-users, which I think is somewhat the most important goal. Also, installing smart numbers that could be read remotely is one of the ways that we would certainly have managed to reduce unauthorized access, the use of electricity, not to say peopleally - theft. I'm sure they'd make one of the savings there. What I said was a legitimate loss of 140 million because of the very structure of consumption, I think you could also do two ways to maybe improve in some future period, one of those two ways, we've already stepped seriously and there's a lot about gasification. Currently, 10% of Serbia's consumers are using gas, but what is a trend in the coming period thanks to the Turkish flow that we can count on an increasing number of consumers to be able to access natural gas itself thanks to this gasification and thus we will also be able to increase the number of natural gas users. Another way is, what you're increasing the trend in the world and here we're talking about renewable energy sources and so on. I think of solar panels that are trending around the world, and I need to think about some subsidies in this direction that we have households, houses and buildings, we already have them, but we need to increase that number that could produce electricity ourselves. One part of that energy is used for its own consumption, the excess that goes into the distribution system, and we would certainly reduce the losses in the transmission itself, and not to mention, of course, the savings and what they might get through the prism of the environment. Also, I want to point out through the prism that the renewable energy source and investment in solar really in the last decade, especially in the last decade, is really very fast that area is developing, in the last seven-eight years for one kilowatt, you correct me if I'm wrong, it takes 22.5 m2 of solar panels, today it's only 7 m2, which we get to some calculation that already at the cost of cost for some three times dropped in that segment of electricity production from the sun, and I'm not saying that in the last 40 years that the price per unit of the measure has dropped 100 times. So that's the trend that we're going towards and that, in my opinion, we should think about. Also, what I would like to commend from the Energy Agency's report is an exemption act in which you and how you participated as the Agency, thanks to which we received, i.e. the state, and its citizens 402 km of pipeline crossing from Bulgaria to the Hungarian border, i.e. from Zaječar to Horgoš. We are thus building a new pipeline, the N-1 infrastructure standard will be satisfied, because from 38.3% it will be increased to 114%, and it already says in itself what a project worth 1.5 billion euros, which will also give Serbian and Serbian citizens stability in natural gas supply, but also gain diversification in energy sources and raise their ability to preserve their environment. I would be unfair if I didn't say that the great Turkish Flow Project, which was on January 1st, seems to me, released in part, would not have been possible and realised that we didn't have a wise and responsible policy of our leadership, the state leadership, headed by the President of the State, Aleksandr Vukic, the wise and responsible foreign policy of the former Foreign Minister and the current National Assembly President, Ivica Dacic, but also two people who participated in these projects from the beginning to the end, is former Energy and Mining Minister Aleksandar Antic and Serbian Director Dusan Bajatovic. I think we have shown that we have people who can implement big projects, that we are as a state ready to participate in them and to think about the future of our children and our Serbia. What I would end up pointing out and reminding the public of Serbia is that today 15 years since the death of former SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic. I would remind myself that he was the first victim of globalism in the fight to defend the sovereignty and integrity of our country and that for 20 years, 21 years since he was no longer president of the state, we still have a struggle to preserve those same interests that were defined by Resolution 1244 when we talk about the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija, our fight is still going on for her today, but also about the Republic of Serbia, our, or the entity within Bosnia and Herzegovina, west of Drina, thanks to which we received, or the Serb people, received their entity, so I think this is what I considered necessary to mention in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As for the SPS parliamentary bench, we will support the Agency's report today when there is a vote. He's like I said, comprehensive, precise, giving you information about electricity, gas, oil, and congratulations on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3930	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3931	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Energy Agency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at the very beginning I must say that the MP group of Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, it will support the conclusion of the relevant assembly committee that discussed the report on the work of the Energy Agency for the period 2019. What I must point out is that the report in one comprehensive way treats the issue of energy and what is being carried out as a conclusion is that Serbia is a stable country in energy terms. I also have to point out one part of the report, which is very important from the aspect of customer protection, which is this appeal procedure that the Energy Agency is conducting as a second-degree body, whose aim is in fact to determine in the administrative procedure all the appeal requirements and best way to protect the customer's interest, if there is an overstep in the procedure or material regulations. Your report shows that most of the appeals were related to connections related to the use of electricity, and that the connections relating to the use of gas were not available. I must also point out that customers, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have the right to judicial protection besides the appeal second-degree procedure, which is very important, and that is, through the launch of the administrative dispute when the decision of the Energy Agency is unsatisfactory. Also, I must point out your role as regards the collection of complete documentation that would help energy operators and state users in the procedures of interventions that are possible and guided to resolve all disputed matters both between energy subjects and between users. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia has recognised as very significant, and what has a social connotation and what is presented in your report is an energy-protected buyer and an energy-hazarded buyer. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, in its 2016 and 2018 regulations, provided for the protection of all those customers who are in a difficult material position, above all I think of consumers of financial social assistance, users of a child's allowance, whose decisions by the competent authorities are automatically delivered and automatically reduced to the costs of the supply of electricity. What I must also say, and what the government has recognised in order to protect users of services, these are energy-hazarded customers. Which are the customers are those customers because of their health conditions have to do medical devices that they use to use electricity and they can't run out of electricity. I have to say that these decisions are made by local self-government based on the demands of such users and that I know a lot of cases where the regulation came out, and they are mostly those patients whose health depends on the oxygen connection and who have interference, especially when it comes to respiratory organs. What I want to point out, and as for the government's work on further improvement of the energy system, I have to point out that in 2020 it was very difficult for the whole world because of a pandemic that affected the whole world and affected both the economy and the health system and the most developed countries in the world. Unlike these most developed countries, the Republic of Serbia except that the model is the country of learning and when it comes to the economy and when it comes to the health system, I must point out that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic opened one of the most modern Deep Processing facilities in Panchev in November 2020. Why is this facility important? It's important because with this facility, the oil industry in Pancheva has actually become one of the most modern in the region. As for sulfurdioxide, its influence in the air has been reduced by 98%, as well as the impact of many other dusty substances that can be harmful to human life and health. This “Deep Processing” facility is also important from the point of view that oil coke is produced for the first time and oil coke is important both in metallurgy and in construction. Energy is a significant momentum for economic development and economic development. I must also point out that 330m euros have been invested for this project. Of course, the opening of the Balkan Stream through Serbia on January 1st 2021, President Aleksandar Vukic opened the Balkan Stream in Gojdinci, wishing for a happy New Year to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and also pointing out that Serbia has become very important in energy terms, that an important event took place on January 1st 2021 for the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia has also become a transit country for oil, for gas, which means it will also collect transit fees. Serbia is a country that, even when it comes to gas, has become energy stable, and we know that gas is one of the cleanest energy sources. I must point out that the largest power plant in our country, the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant in Obrenovac, is the work of deforestation plants, i.e. for the mitigation of smoke gases, that the project is working together with Japanese investors and that in a few years this project will be completed. When finished, the percentage of carbon dioxide in the air will be nine times smaller, which means that it directly affects the life and health of people, i.e. better quality of life and the health of people living in Obrenovac. When it comes to the use of renewable energy sources, I have to name the community from which I come, which is Priboj, where you use wood mass as heat. Thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, through the Public Investment Office, a part of it in the Old Town has already been built a heat that heats the wood mass. The third phase of the project is under way, as is the construction of heat, as well as the reconstruction of hot water pipes. The heat is due to be released in October 2021, and already in 2022, the citizens of Preboj will be able to heat themselves to biomass. Biomass heating, i.e. wood waste, is significant from the aspect of reducing carbon dioxide in the air, significant from the aspect of pollution reduction, is important from the aspect of heat stability, it is important from the aspect of lower costs, i.e. citizens will pay as much as they really spend heat energy. I must point out that renewable energy sources are something that the government of the Republic of Serbia is working on, as renewable sources, as heat sources of energy. And I have to point out that wood waste in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is so big that if it was used for heating, it could replace 1.57 million tons of oil. Otherwise, heating in Priboj on wood waste, as far as the amount of wood waste itself is concerned, could warm whole southwestern Serbia. The prize is next to Little Zvornik's second municipality in Serbia to get heating on biomass. Of course, I would like to point out that by 2012, such as my colleague, the distinguished Ljiljana Malusic, spoke, there were electric robbers and electric robbers. Dragan Solak, through his SBB company, was stealing electricity by putting amplifiers on banners by putting amplifiers on currents in home buildings by divulging a 60km optical cable onto water and hot water networks in the city of Belgrade. In this way, he directly damaged the city of Belgrade for so much money that more than five to six kindergartens could be made. Of course, the time of the robbers in the image of Dragan Gilas, Šolak and his buddies is over, that time of the robbery. Citizens clearly and unequivocally said in 2012, sending them to the grave of political history. All these squirmings today are nothing more than their lurking in their own mud. The Republic of Serbia, its citizens support the policy led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, because everything he does, works primarily in the interests of citizens and in the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3932	Thank you. National MP Stefan Srbanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3933	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs, respected members of the Energy Agency, it is very important that we created conditions in Serbia and established practice that independent regulatory bodies do their work without the pressure of the executive and represent the results of their work and reports in this high home which, you will agree, was not the case in some past times. Sometimes, for example, you couldn't hear the Fiscal Council that the opinion on green loans, high interest on green loans that Serbia owed before the SNS came to power. You also couldn't hear members of the Anti-Corruption Agency talking about public officials who acquired their wealth while performing those public functions. Today's topic, i.e. the Agency's report, is really very important, because the energy sector is strategically important and is marked as one of the sectors with the greatest potential that, with the help and support of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, can be even better and more efficient. This is certainly an important foreign policy issue, because we have important relations with all the partners in the world. Energy and mining sectors are key to a stable functioning and development of the economy, as well as to raising the quality of life of citizens. In the previous period, the Serbian government has shown its determination to complete reforming public enterprises not only in the gas sector but also in the energy sector. The gas sector needs to be reformed, to complete separation in the right sense of the word. "Transportgas" must and should be separated from "Srbigas" as well as gas distribution. This reform must not be and must not be implemented only because of compliance with the European Union's legal directives, because that way we will have a better business review and businesses will bring us profits. We also care about the Balkan flow, because that way we don't depend on just one gas route coming through Ukraine. The same applies to the EPS when it comes to the electricity sector. The specific theme is the theme of green economy, green energy and energy efficiency, but also the creation of a mining and energy sector suitable for investment. As the electronic issue of construction permits was introduced at a time when Minister Mihajlovic was headed by the portfolio, it is also necessary to work on introducing digitalisation into the mining and energy sectors, so that all permits, licences and certificates needed for work are digitised. This increases the transparency and predictability of investors and reduces costs and reduces procedures, whether it is a connection to electricity, gas, heat energy or licences concerning geological research and mining. The aim of the EPS reform is a profitable and regionally successful EPS, to make this company more successful not only in the Republic of Serbia, but also in the region. If anyone thinks, and we have heard that there were such opinions, it is better to throw 250m euros every year just at the losses on the network, not to talk about other problems within the EPS, but to reform the EPS, then it is either the ignorance of those who talk about it or about other intentions and interests. Serbia's electricity currently resembles an old silver that can shine again, and this is certainly the goal of the Ministry of Mining and Energy and its development should not stop the mismanagement, the interests of individuals and the ignorance and bad intentions of politicians who use only and exclusively to collect cheap political points. The ministry wants an EPS that has a higher profit, which faster realises projects, which invests more in protecting the environment and whose business is arranged as in Europe's most modern electricity industries. Otherwise, EPS will become prey of various interests. I understand the need of certain opposition politicians known only for the number of parties that have changed over a very short period of time that using the name of the EPS and the Ministry try to be present in the media, but lies cannot build a political career, nor worry about the development of the EPS. If they were really worried, we'd have some suggestions when they were MPs, but it seems easier for them to deal with media through this issue. Here, as false fighters for EPS interest, they primarily draw attention to themselves. Some in the past may have allowed them to build their image that way, but certainly we MPs and colleagues in the EPS will not allow it. We will not allow it either because of the EPS workers or the EPS engineers, because of the company's future and the citizens of Serbia. In the context of EPS operations, further work must be done to reduce losses on the distribution network. By building new networks, plants and power lines, we will allow better supply of consumers, and all in order to prevent our customers from having a problem during the winter period and not to be left without electricity, as was the case in the coastal municipality just a few months ago. As far as the Serbia Power Network is concerned, it is one of the best companies in the energy sector. In order for Serbia to be the most important transit corridor, the EMS must do its best. This company will only bring good development of Serbia's energy system because it is a pillar of stability in our regional integration. Serbia successfully realises one of the most significant projects, the Trans-Balkan Corridor, which will allow the transfer of sufficient energy with minimal losses, creating such a sustainable and secure system. In this way, Serbia becomes an inevitable energy corridor, and by energy transition we will also get green energy, because electricity production should be greener and as little impact on the environment as possible. There is also geothermal energy, solar energy of biomass, but also increasing use of renewable energy sources. That is why Serbia will build new hydropower in the future, primarily in the upper part of the Drina. It will contribute to our energy stability. There is the end of the Kostolac II thermal power plant, the Niš-Dimitrovgrad gas pipeline, mentioning the Transbalkan corridor and all in order to produce non-carbon energy. We also saw from the report that, compared to 2018, the production of electricity obtained from hydrocenters has been reduced. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that it is very important that we work on continuing water and lake cleaning. I'd like to mention this opportunity and rescue the dump, such as the State's dump. Why would I bring that up? Because it is only a few kilometers upriver from the Potpeč Lake and from the watery Potpeć. Of course, the problem of the entire flow of Lim is one big problem and can be solved by the co-operation of three countries through which this river passes. Indeed, many ministers can call Irena Vujovic as much as they want, but she is the first Minister of Environmental Protection and Ecology to have concrete results on the ground and her work and efforts to solve decades of problems are recognised by citizens of municipalities and Priboj and Prepolje and Nova Varoš and I am convinced and the whole of Serbia. Also, one of the most important strategic plans for Serbia is the Jadar project and it is a project that allows for further development of the country, exploitation and production of the Adriatic, but also green economy, GDP, new jobs and a sustainable economy. This project will also teach us new technologies because no one will make money to destroy the environment because the concern of all of us is to preserve the environment. Therefore, the criticisms that individuals have made by hiding behind some movement that has absolutely no foothold or support for Serbian citizens are an attempt to cause panic among Serbian citizens for cheap political points and their personal interests. Jadar is a completely new project that will be implemented with the application of state-of-the-art technologies and respect for European standards, all in co-operation with our foreign partners. I would also point out that this parliament has shown its desire and commitment to participate in all projects and solve all problems in the field of energy and mining through the Parliamentary Forum for Energy Policy. It will certainly be a meeting place to discuss all these topics, and all in order to produce all our electricity from renewable energy sources in the next 15 years, which is certainly planned in the Energy Development Strategy. In the end, I would just add, I have to say that public enterprises are not a prize, nor a trophy that is obtained only because you are a member of a political party or coalition. These companies exist to be managed by the directors in the best possible way. Every kilometer of gas pipeline, every business building and every chair on which it sits is owned by the state and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and therefore we must treat the property as patriotic and domestic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3934	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3935	Thank you, Your Honor. Representatives of the Agency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, distinguished colleagues, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have heard really meaningful, quality discussions almost all of my predecessors, each from their own corner, with his perception of things he spoke about the Report on energy and energy situation in the Republic of Serbia. But what I want to look at is the importance of the energy situation, of security for the Republic of Serbia. Every country has some key things that matter to it. It was important for Serbia in previous years to stabilise its economy, finance, to deal with corruption, crime and to allow the future a certain perspective for all our children. How to ensure this future, rather than the parents of those children and those new generations who will come after them to provide stable and secure jobs, jobs, factories, companies, good companies that can hire, to pay decently for workers in the Republic of Serbia. All of this would not be without two things, without determined construction of highways and stable energy supplies, especially when it comes to gas. All this, again, would not be that we do not have a man like Aleksandar Vukic, first as Deputy Prime Minister, then as prime minister today as president of the Republic of Serbia. That's exactly why Alexander Vukic is the main topic for criminals and the mob. Therefore, not only the main topic but also the main target for criminals and mafia in Serbia is Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Those who lead the mafia in Serbia and those who encourage crime are those who hit Serbia's president daily, who are hitting on all projects that bring interest to Serbian citizens and our children. And to whom it can be in the interest of others, rather than the largest tycoon in Serbia's history such as Dragan Gilas, and such as his godmothers, friends, drug dealers, various whites and others, who, behold, from day to day, are increasingly full, just what they need to fill, i.e. Not his pockets, but prison cells all over Serbia. I am convinced, of course, not only that they are in custody today, but that they are awaiting decades of prison sentences for what they have tried to do and for what they have already done, all those crimes, murders, drug trafficking, poisoning our children with narcotics, the preparation of the murder of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, the attacks and those hysterical, worst possible threats, according to the children of Alexander Vukic, the underage Vulcan, Milic and Danill. In every way possible, these villains are trying to discredit Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Why is it his fault? Why is it Alexander Wolf's fault? He's guilty because today in Serbia you have an unemployment rate of less than 7%. Of course, he's guilty of it. Of course, he's guilty because we brought over 200 new factories to Serbia. Of course, he's guilty because we have over 300 kilometers of highways more than in 2012. Of course, he's guilty of making more roads in Serbia than he did during Broz. Of course, it's all his fault. Of course, he is guilty because Serbia today is the absolute leader in the region, the strongest force in the Western Balkans region is the Republic of Serbia. When we say the strongest force, it is not a threat to anyone, it is security for Serbian citizens to live safely and peacefully, that they can create their families, to raise children and not to seek the future for themselves and them abroad, but to stay in Serbia, in the most beautiful country in the world that we all build together every day, with growing will and energy we invest both knowledge and effort for this country to live better and quality than it has been for decades back. Alexander Vukic for that is the mob's fault, cut the tentacles of the mob. He hit the mob in the head, where it hurts the most -- the money, so they're being questioned where their property came from. When you see in the news that one of Belivuk's associates has been detained, he says the police have only taken their armored cars out of the garage. If you know how much a blinded car costs, ask yourself how it's possible that a kid, semi-literate or illiterate, with his 20, 30 years old, can own a car of hundreds of thousands of eva. Where did that come from? You don't need to have any research into the origins of the property, to be elementally written to add years of life, what that man does, where he deals with, how he can get it, with a high or elementary school, with what knowledge that man, who is so well paid on the market, can have it, unlike one electrical engineering engineer, machine engineer, trafficker, one lawyer, lawyer or doctor. It is certain that whoever planned the assassination of the president of Serbia could not have acquired it, to make the one of Schiller's 2 as they call it. Where did that come from? Where'd you get the bunkers? What's that for? Why do you need armored vehicles, if you're such nice young men, innocent, for what? What's a sniper doing to a group of fans? What kind of law school professor is that? Well, it's not a professor, it's the most common jillkokot, which can be justice, a group to call, such a tow, brothers, and to speak, see you for the malarkey, something needs to bring him that one. We all know what this is about. We all know well, and this Law on asset origin testing will help, will contribute to the regulation of all this in legal form and that this property, I hope, I honestly believe, is what we voted for in this law. The one who violated the law to take away the property from thieves who stole from Serbian citizens, not years, decades, has stolen lives from certain people. I believe that the time has come in Serbia, finally, in Serbia, which is headed by a serious statesman, not a politician, I always like to underline, because politicians, there are many of them, Serbia has survived through its spine many politicians but has not, I would say, in the past hundred years of statesmen like Aleksandar Vucic. A countryman who doesn't look from year to year or from term to term, but who watches what this country will be like when we're no longer here or physically in this world. How these children will live in Serbia in 50 or 100 years, what movements in the region will be, what security issues will be and what this country will look like in another century and will be ready to welcome that match with other peoples from this region. Serbia is more than ready today to compete not only with our neighbours but to compete with the most developed countries in Europe and the world and show this in this difficult situation that we have with the coronary virus where we have managed precisely to lead a man and a statesman like Aleksandra Vucic to fight for having a vaccine at this point more than enough, and we must work on this absolutely certain that the citizens of Serbia are not convinced but that the right way is to get out of this crisis with the crown of the virus, the vaccination. We have conditions for this, because we have a serious man headed by the state, one who has managed to bring Serbia to the point where Serbia will be one of the best in the world today in the matter of vaccination and the fight against the crown of the virus. Serbia couldn't have done anything in the past decades except in certain sports to boast that it was the best in the world, because we are absolutely gifted for it. But in this situation today, in politics, in finance, in the fight for health, for survival, for the lives of the nation, led by President Vukic, Serbia wins. It beats life in Serbia and it bothers of course. It bothers me, because the arguments we would use against Serbia today absolutely do not stand. Well, that and when it comes to energy, when it comes to gas pipelines, when it comes to new hydropower plants, when it comes to improving our energy system, the price of electricity and everything else. Serbian citizens have a certain perspective, see where the state is going, see that they can live in this country from their work, see that those profits that are over 500 euros today, when you have two family employees can have a certain perspective, a certain future. The project, which we drew "Serbia 2025" and in 2025, will surely reach that salary of 900 or 1,000 euros, so we will be able to say that we may be the most successful country and on the salaries of the Western Balkans region. Then there will be no more of those who will in any way be able to turn Serbia off its path, because until then all criminals and tycoons and those who had plans to steal this country or once steal it will be on long-standing prisons. At that time, Serbian citizens will have the highest salary in the region. Then the citizens of Serbia will live the best. Then Serbia will continue to help its brothers through the Drina and wherever the Serbs live, because we want our people where they live and stay, to strengthen their position. The stronger Serbs are where they live, the stronger the state of Serbia is. I am telling you today, to conclude, the greater support today in these difficult moments, the stronger and stronger we give our actions to the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, the more we condemn and by the real names, regardless of the code, because no code can forbid us from using the right expression against those who planned to kill the President of the Republic. It's the worst scum and bandits in Serbia. The stronger support it becomes to the president of the Republic of Serbia in these difficult days, as it is difficult to endure daily pressures. None of us face what Alexander Vukic is facing today. He asks us only to work, to work hard daily, to fight for this country, to speak in the Assembly about what programmes are, what ideas are, to defend the "Serbia 2025" plan because it is a plan for Serbia's future. The stronger our message becomes from here, the stronger our support will be to our President of the Republic, the stronger Serbia will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3936	Thank you. National MP Vuk Mircetic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3937	Dear Chairman, respected representatives of the Energy Agency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are today discussing the report on the work of the Energy Agency for 2019, as this Agency for its work corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The spectrum of businesses, the role, the importance of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia has already been discussed by Mr Veroljub Arsic as the rapporteur of the board of directors. What is important is to mention that the Agency's task is to contribute to the creation of a stable regulatory framework for the development of an efficient and sustainable energy sector, which will be a sure basis for the economic development of the country. Dejan Popovic, president of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, presented this comprehensive report this morning and I can freely say that this is also the most comprehensive report on the energy sector. Given its scope and scope, I will single out only certain parts, and both colleagues and fellow MPs have already discussed it, so I see that we are not repeating ourselves. What is important and what the report says is that the security of electricity supply, natural gas and oil derivatives was at a satisfactory level. The report also mentions the energy development strategy for the period from 2020 to 2020, with projections up to 2030 and is projected to grow less than 1% annually. I would like to commend what it says in this report, which refers to the submissions received by the Agency. According to the report, the Agency received 366 submissions in 2019 and that all 366 were responsible for those who submitted, so it also speaks of this cooperation with the users of the services. One of the tasks of the Ministry of Mining and Energy is Serbia's energy transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources and the development of the energy sector. The Republic of Serbia needs to be energy safe, that we have enough energy, gas, oil, thermal energy on one side, but what is very important is that we also take care of environmental protection. The ministry has prepared and prepares four new laws, which we will discuss here, and the aim of these laws is to help create favourable conditions and to enable new investments in one reviewed way. These laws need to explain what mineral wealth is, what their value is, what on the one hand the states have of them, what on the other hand local communities have of their exploitation, etc. Let's get back to energy. When it comes to energy, it must be strong because it can contribute to the economic growth of the Republic of Serbia. We need to invest in a distribution network and do everything we can about renewable energy sources. The improvement of the energy sector also enables new investments, which will mean GDP growth, and GDP growth means improvement for our country and its citizens. The tendency of Europe and the world is to reduce the use of resources that contribute to pollution, and since we are fighting for a modern, orderly, European Serbia, as its citizens deserve, we do not allow certain modern tendencies to surprise us, but towards the challenges that await us, and certainly await us, we approach strategically. A strategic approach to energy, a strategic approach to energy towards the strategy I mentioned at the beginning of the exposure, I will read, “means that processes in the economy and the state, as well as in the lives of citizens, take place at lower economic costs and higher levels of social and environmental sustainability, i.e. higher standards of the population, with a reduction of pollution and better protection of nature.” It is also important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to repeat that Aleksandar Vukic, as counterpart Aleksandra Tomic mentioned during today's presentation, signed with Germany's Green Energy Agreement last year, which further speaks of the strategic approach to this problem we insist on. Serbia is going to meet with changes and it is ready to meet new challenges and therefore Serbia is no longer insignificant on the map of Europe or on the map of the world. It is important for us citizens to live well, to create conditions for new investments and, of course, to continue to progress. In the voting day, I will support the report on the work of the Energy Agency for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3938	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3939	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Serbian citizens, as we recall, one of the five principles President Aleksandar Vukic spoke about in the SNS' further development policy is the country's economic progress. Otherwise, the country's economic progress cannot be imagined without achieving energy stability, which is something that, based on a report ahead of us, when it comes to the Energy Agency, we can see that it has been achieved in the previous period. The report itself confirmed that we have confirmed that Serbia has become a country of energy stability, i.e. one of the important preconditions for attracting foreign direct investment, thanks to the hard work of President Aleksandr Vukic and his team. I would remind the citizens that in 2019 we were champions of attracting foreign direct investment, with 3.9 billion euros, that this trend continued and that we would continue to implement this trend. What is important is to say that significant funds have been invested when it comes to our country's energy capacity, especially when we talk about this green economy, or renewable energy sources, where we have had the opportunity to see that we are slowly moving towards that high percentage, or 27%, if I am not mistaken, of the electricity we are getting from renewable energy sources. I would mention that we have invested significant resources when it comes to building wind parks in Serbia, and because of what my colleagues have said, that we have a lot of natural preconditions, so our geographical position is to be abundant in these sources that need to be used. The SNS has just shown that it understands and is working on it. So I'll just remind you that by 2011, we had only one wind farm in Serbia that was built, and that since 2016, we have seven new wind parks that were built and three other windmen that are currently in the construction phase, where work is expected to begin, especially "Plandishte 1" wind farm, 102 megawatt capacity, with 34 generators, perhaps this year. Also, I want to say that we are well known for many things in the region, and we are also famous for having in the Balkans the largest wind farm called "Cibuk 1" and which is with us. This is also one of the evidence, in addition to meeting those criteria and important things for further economic development and raising citizens' living standards, that we also took environmental protection segments, i.e. ecology as one of the major priorities. Otherwise, when we talk about ecology and further investment in energy, I would only remind myself that at the meeting of the Committee on the Economy of the Deputy Prime Ministers and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, I would like to talk about further investments and three pillars of the policy to be led in energy. I will mention clearly that, in addition to the normative activities that our colleagues have talked about, where we have recently changed and amended two laws and the adoption of two new laws, specifically the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and the Energy Efficiency Act on rational use of energy, which will certainly contribute to making us even more efficient in this segment. We have a second track, or second pillar, which is further reforming businesses in the energy sector. First of all, it is thought of "Electroprived Serbia" and "Srbiagas", which, as well as respected colleagues have spoken, are large corporations that are important for further growth and our country's GDP. The third, not least important, but very important track is further investment and investment in the energy segment, where it is announced that around 10.5 billion euros will be invested in further energy development, but that no investment in this sector will be without a component of environmental protection, i.e. that a large accent is now being placed on climate neutral policy, i.e. the investments that we are going to implement, so I would clearly remind the public that we are now starting with an investment that is very important when it comes to TE “Nikola Tesla B” in Obrenovac, a decontamination facility that will allow the thermal power plant itself to no longer pollute the environment. In addition, funds have been planned to further remount and improve existing capacities in electricity production. The aim of these investments that are ahead of us and which have been made is, in addition to meeting those important standards for further accession to the European Union, that this potential that we have to become leaders, when it comes to the energy sector in this region, we really do. Otherwise, all of this would not have been possible, of course, if the state hadn't taken over in 2014, thanks to the determined leader Alexander Vukic, who was then prime minister, fiscal consolidation, the resolution of the finance issue, so that today we have financial resources for all these important projects that we are going to realize and we have ways to come up with the necessary means to make all of these ideas that we are talking about, which before 2012 and sounded perhaps impossible and unfulfilled, we are able to realize and we are proving it by the very works. In addition to electricity, one of the important segments is gasification. We all remember on January 1st of this year, that President Aleksandar Vukic let that so-called work. The Balkan flow, where Serbia has provided energy stability in gas supply, so now instead of one direction, we have gas coming from another direction, but unlike where we used to be the end-user, we are now becoming a transit country that will generate revenues based on transit taxis and, of course, will be working on further gasification of the Republic of Serbia, so that every household can have access to this energy that is very important and when it comes to environmental and environmental protection, but continues to raise standards. So, we know that significant efforts will be made to make the price of the connection more accessible to citizens, to solve this problem, which may be one of the important and to raise that percentage, which currently stands at 10% of the fossilised households, to a much higher level, but it will also continue to work on diversification when it comes to energy sources. So, and based on this report, we can see that there's been a lot of work. Otherwise, let me just mention that colleagues were talking about losses in the electrical system, above all in the distribution part, which are now around 11%. I know and I am convinced that we will succeed in, with all these investments being made, some of which we discussed in this Assembly and voted for them, to reduce that percentage to a European average, but I would remind the public that this percentage in the period before 2012 was much, much higher, because then there was no significant attention when it came to maintaining the electricity system itself, and what is important today we came to the fact that we are truly an energy-stable state and that we are rationally managing all of our energy resources that we have. So, each of the results achieved in this sector, which we will have the opportunity to read in the next reports and for 2020, we will actually see how far we have progressed and moved away, and all of this is done because it is an important prerequisite for further and further foreign investment and new jobs, and raising the standard of living in Serbia and the ecological preservation of our country, but above all, fighting for the future for our children. So, in the voting day, as well as my fellow Members from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support this report and the conclusion submitted by the committee responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3940	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3941	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Agency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first of all like to begin by commending the Agency's report. He is, above all, objective, detailed and precise and he puts an emphasis on all important segments that should be managed in the area of energy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I belong to a generation that went to elementary school in the 1980s and taught us how to live in a beautiful and rich country. Our country is beautiful, beautiful for us, there's no better land, but unfortunately, it's not as rich as they taught us. And as young Swiss people learn how their country is poor, that they have to keep saving energy, they have always taught us how we have everything in abundance and that we are one rich country. But the question is, is that it? Where did this approach get us? Energy consumption in the Republic of Serbia is double that of average consumption in 35 OECD countries. It is therefore important to focus all the activities we are doing today and in the future, first of all, on the energy savings sector and thus save funds in the budget, and on the other hand, we have a positive impact on the environment. In the 1990s, due to wars, sanctions, everything that has happened to our country, we have further impoverished as a state and as a society. We have lost our ability to follow all the significant European and world trends in this area. In 2000, those who did not care for the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whose personal interests were ahead of the interests of the people, before the collective interests and their contribution, came to power, but under the name of the alleged energy savings, was the shut down of the factory. The more factories go out, the less energy will be spent, and for the needs of citizens and states, they didn't care at all. And even today, these descendants of this DOS want to teach us what and how to do it. Just now, colleagues here were talking about how, where and when they stole from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and today they want to return to power and continue the robbery where they left off in 2012. It was in 2012 that it was crucial for the normalisation of political ones, but I would say economic opportunities in our country. Of course, one country cannot be arranged unless there are clear laws to regulate certain areas, certain frameworks. It is particularly important for such laws to be implemented locally, the very laws concerning energy efficiency. So, the state of Serbia has been investing significantly in legislation since 2013. This is how the 2013 Energy Efficiency Act takes place. Then, the Strategy for the Development of Energy of the Republic of Serbia is adopted. Then comes the Third Action Plan for Energy Efficiency and Mass of Instructions, Regulations, which regulate the area of energy efficiency. The law on rational use of energy in Serbia has, above all, a horizontal impact on other areas of economic development, because through it we see a great opportunity to save public finances and to launch some new projects from these savings, to engage domestic economy that will produce technology in the field of energy efficiency, to reduce poverty, i.e. to increase the availability of energy to those socially endangered categories of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also to promote rural development. The biggest energy consumers in Serbia are private buildings and public buildings. They spend nearly 45% of total final consumption, and more than 50% of the construction fund is obsolete and does not comply with the applicable standards and regulations. Based on the above, we can easily conclude that there is a great potential and great potential for energy savings and to reduce costs in the public sector. This applies first of all to those large systems, such as hospitals, large-scale buildings, and indeed they spend a large amount of energy, both for lighting, for heating, for air conditioning. We adopted about a month ago here a significant two loans from the Republic of Serbia. One loan refers to the complete reconstruction of the VMA, as the largest, most significant health care system in the area not only of our country, but also of the Balkans, as well as one loan relating to the EMS. However, there are positive examples of practice where it was done in the field of energy efficiency. I will list a few examples relating to the city and region from which I come, it is the city of Sremska Mitrovica and the region of Srema. I want this opportunity to commend the Regional Development Agency Srem, who has gathered all local self-governments from the Srem area, gave the initiative and linked them to certain donors. So, in 2012, with the presence of the German partner organisation GIS, an inter-municipality agreement is signed in the Srema area, which has the title – Improving the energy efficiency of public facilities and municipal services and the use of renewable energy sources in the Srem County. The agreement has, above all, the aim of strengthening the capacity of local self-government to deal with energy efficiency issues. In 2013 also in Sremska Mitrovica, with the presence of an Austrian expert delegation on energy efficiency, an inter-municipal working group was formed. It is composed of the most qualitative, most professional individuals from the unit of local self-government, utility and other institutions and their task was, above all, to collect data relevant to the preparation of projects, to implement projects, but also to report to donors only. In 2013 also in Sremska Mitrovica, in our city's heat, began working on biomass boilers. In addition to saving energy, or the resources needed to operate this biomass boiler, we also have positive environmental impacts. Just in 2013 the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a methodology for selecting priority projects and based on it, this inter-municipal working group forms a unique list of projects for the energy sector in the Srema area, according to the so-called PIF pattern, which includes the construction of a biomass boiler room for Tivol in Rum. Just now, the minister, Mrs Vujovic, visited Ruma about 15 days ago and officially released this biomass boiler room. Then, the CHP plant project in the Caves, but also a significant project to increase the energy efficiency of public buildings in the Sremski District, where 30 public buildings owned by local self-government units were reviewed. This Regulation shall enter into The Swiss Development Agency with 200,000 francs is funding the project -- establishing a regional system to support the development of energy efficiency and the use of renewable sources in Srem. A number of activities have been carried out, the training of energy managers for all municipalities, training of members of inter-municipal working groups to conduct an energy audit of public buildings, a list of all public buildings for the needs of ISEM was carried out. The information system for energy management or ISEM, as well as training, data input into this system and the energy restoration of the music school in Ruma has been implemented, so this is the first facility that has received an energy passport in Srema space and this facility has passed from F energy class to C energy development, which is a significant energy savings in the facility itself, but on the other hand a much more pleasant stay as a student of this school, but also employees. In co-operation with the town of Sremska Mitrovica, Regional Development Agency Srem has developed the concept of a regional centre for sustainable development, which will contain a sub-centre within itself. It is a centre for education, innovation, research into energy efficiency and renewable energy sources and it will serve training engineers, students, technologists, designers, will have all demonstration installations such as thermo, solar and photovoltaic power plants, wind generators, water pumps, etc. and the plan is to build a biomass centre, where biomass will be collected from the Srema area and to produce briquettes and pellets, and in this way we will achieve significant savings in energy consumption itself. There is already a building permit for this centre and it is expected that the Republic of Serbia will allocate certain funds to bring the centre to life. Building this centre is primarily important that we can make it easier for the donor community and all those who invest in the Republic of Serbia to facilitate their financial placements, their realisation, but as the long-term financial sustainability of these projects. I'm really glad that a center like this came to life in the middle of Banat. The Regional Energy Efficiency Centre opened in Zrenjanin a few days ago. It is the fruit of one co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Romania, through an IPA project worth 852,000 euros. And in the end, I want to commend two initiatives. One initiative launched by Ms. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, that very soon the state of Serbia will find funds to enable all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, free funds to give, to isolate the walls and replace the carpentry in all buildings and houses, which is very important. The state wants to invest up to five billion euros in energy, because we are really spending a lot of energy on our country's space, three to four times more than the environment, and even six times more than the countries that are members of the EU. Finally, I would like to commend one initiative launched by Mrs Aleksandra Tomic, our MP, to form a parliamentary forum for the energy policy of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to us, MPs, on 9 February, support was given by Parliament Speaker Mr Dacic and Deputy Prime Minister Mihajlovic. In this way we show that as a state and as a society we are committed to solving problems in the field of energy efficiency, to safeguard energy and to create conditions for a better and better quality life for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the day of voting together with colleagues selected from the list Aleksandra Vukic – For our children, I will support the Agency's work report with the desire to work as well in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3942	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3943	Thank you, Chairman. President of the National Assembly, distinguished guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, allow me to refer to the report provided by the Energy Agency for 2019, but I can say that the report is very large in content. I have the impression that it is completely objective and that in a broader context it gives an overview of the energy situation in the Republic of Serbia in 2019. So, the report is not only a report on the Agency's work, but also a review of the state of energy in the Republic of Serbia. I would comment on some data from the report itself, I would not go beyond the framework of the report itself, and all of us can be encouraged by the fact that the energy dependence of the Republic of Serbia is only 35%, unlike EU countries that are dependent on 55%. So we are more energy independent than EU countries. Also, today we talked a lot about lignite, we talked about how we mainly supply electricity produced in thermal power plants, and that's 2/3 of our total production, and we'd get the impression that we're some big or biggest environmental pollutants. According to the report, however, according to the Agency's report, 93% of CO2 is produced in Serbia compared to 100% of the EU population. So 7% less CO2 is produced in the Republic of Serbia per capita for energy needs than it is in the EU. The following data that gas coverage is 39% compared to that per EU population and other data that only 10-11% of households in Serbia are being gassed indicate that there is a great potential in gasification, that is, something that we are about to do in the next period. Of course, data on energy consumption, i.e. consumption distribution, are interesting. Unfortunately, more than Europe, we spend energy in the household, which is because of warming. In Serbia, one part of the people heat up on TA stoves, heat and electricity is consumed in this, I say, not productive way, and it as a fine energy is not intended for this type of use. We spend more energy in industry, in percentages, than the EU, although our productivity and, let me say, our social product is twice as small as the EU. We spend less electricity in traffic than it is in the EU, and that is also one direction in which it should operate in the future. So, we're simply directing traffic, or as energy, we're using electricity, or electric vehicles, and I'm saying we're reducing consumption in the industry. What is some result that Serbia has achieved for all these years is that 50% of total electricity goes to the free market and 50% is sold through guaranteed supply and 84% of gas goes to the free market and only 16% of gas goes to guaranteed supplies of over 32 public enterprises that are natural gas distributors in certain municipalities and cities. The biggest success the Republic of Serbia has achieved over the past years in the field of electricity is the allocation of the ESM from the EPS, which was launched in 2005, 2006 by the adoption of the law then and which ended, completely successfully, by granting certificates to the ESM by the Energy Agency, I think, in 2019. Our EMS now operates a network of high voltage 110, 220, 400 kilovolts, all transmission routes, whether it's power lines or cables and power plants that are from that voltage level. It is singled out into one particular company or d. o. o. that is completely independent of the rest of the EPS. I know the condition of the Energy Community was for the EMS to be under a special ministry, that the same ministry does not control and is not responsible for the public undertaking EPS and the ESM. We did so, so the EMS is under the authority of the Ministry of Industry, and the EPS is under the authority of the Ministry of Energy and Mining. Serbia's power grid has its development plans. We have adopted a loan for the third section of the first phase of the Trans-Balkan Corridor and Serbia is on the way to the transmission of electricity mainly from the northeast to the southwest of Europe. It's a major direction, although electricity is moving and selling in both directions and annually across Serbia over 14 teravat hours of electricity, it's 14,000 gigawatt hours just for these cross-border purposes. If we know that we have already done section 1 from Romania to Panchev, section 2, we work from Kragujevac to Kraljevci, this was a fair for section 3 of Bajina Basta, i.e. from Obrenovac to Bajina Basta. Then, we are doing section 4 from Bajina Basta to Visegrad to connect the Republic of Serbia and to Pljevlja and if we know that Montenegro has already done Pljevlje, some place on the coast, so the underwater power cable goes to Italy. We have actually had one stable, we will have a stable two times 400 kilovolt connection between Romania and Italy that goes through Serbia, which will be one of the sources of ESM revenue. In 2019, the ESM earned 24,000m euros from these reservations, the capacity of annual, monthly and daily, which is a very good income, which it naturally invests in further development of its system. So I want to point out that the EMS is the backbone of our power system in the state. I can no longer say EPS because it is now completely separate from the EPS, but the ESM is tasked with allowing anyone who wants to trade electricity on a large scale or to achieve within the state or interstate transfer, on equal terms, or on equal terms to enable auctions, so that at that auction, competition, they all appear. When it comes to electricity production and it's no longer just a public EPS company, we have a larger number of producers. A colleague spoke of wind parks with significant power and directly connected to the EMS transmission system, unlike small power plants that are around 300, 320. Eighteen is owned by the EPS, the rest are privately owned. Here, the EPS has a slightly larger power average of up to two mega bats, here in private somewhere on average about 0.5 megabats, and they are directly attached to the distribution system, so we have a market like we have in the supply market, that is, electricity sales. We have 50 to 70 companies that are registered to trade in electricity on a large, small scale and there is a fact that only 13 suppliers managed to make some revenue, or to carry out some activity in 2019. Some of the remarks I heard from the European Energy Community Secretariat's representatives that if they liberalized me a little bit, then the price of electricity would be lower, they wouldn't stand. The price of electricity in Serbia is the lowest in Europe, the lowest in the region, the lowest in Europe. It is not true that EPS or EPS supply or anyone else has a monopoly, that we have some built-up price so that competitors can knock that price down by offering a lower price, then the introduction and appeal of a lack of competition would make sense. However, we here have the lowest price possible. Who can offer a lower price than that? He can't offer anyone. So, that complaint from the Secretariat of the European Energy Community, in my deep confidence, does not stand, as no gas remark stands. You know, if you could release those and those capacities, if you hadn't possessed the Serbs, then you'd have no idea how many times the price of gas. We looked at the tables, we looked at the data, the price of gas in Serbia is the lowest or almost lowest. What lower price can it be than this? In any case, regardless of diversification of gas supply sources or diversification of gas supply routes, which is not the same, diversification of sources, diversification of directions. I am deeply convinced that Serbia will always buy the cheapest gas. No one will be able to say to our leadership: "You know, buy 55% of these, but buy 45% of these others because you need these too." I think that we will always and exclusively manage with logic and that Serbia will always buy the cheapest gas, no matter how many supply routes there are, how many gas providers there are. So, even that remark I heard from the people of the European Secretariat of Energy doesn't stand completely and doesn't make sense. I'd like to move a little bit to ODS, or the distribution system operator who manages network 10, 20, 35 kilovolts of all the facilities that serve to transform electricity and, of course, deliver to the final customer. My colleagues mentioned losses. These losses are slightly less than 12%, and they always go down every year. Every year we have a loss reduction. I can commend your approach that when you approve of the price, or compensation for access to the distribution system, it must always be accompanied by a plan to reduce losses, because it is the only way to force the distribution system operator to behave seriously. So any price approval with a reasoned request and an explanation of its losses must also be followed by a progress plan. I understand completely that our losses in our ODS are something greater in Europe because we simply sell electricity to a lower voltage level. Where there's lower voltage, there's bigger losses. For the same power, if you have a higher voltage you have lower electricity, and the losses are proportional to the square of electricity, so where the voltage is higher and the energy sales are higher voltage, there are fewer losses. In Serbia, electricity is mainly sold, i.e. low-voltage electricity, and our losses on average are significantly higher than in the EU, where they sell at 10 kilovolts 20, 35 kilovolts of as much as 110 kilovolts of electricity. Of course, stealing electricity and unauthorized consumption is also one of the causes, and it should be fought against. There, the ODS should pay considerable attention and I think it should speed up the process of taking over the measuring places, what one colleague was talking about, that the measurement places should go into ownership of the ODS, the ODS should speed up the process of taking over the measuring places to further worry about it and to further make it its investment and concern, and not care about the investment of citizens. As far as the price is concerned, I said that the price is low and you are absolutely right when you say in the Report that the price can be higher and that you should think about increasing the price of electricity, but on condition that I completely agree with you, that a social group that will have a price advantage is expanded before that, that is, we now have the Energy Protected Customer Regulation. I don't think he's enough protection. I think that the scope of people should be greater and the degree of protection of that energy-protected buyer should be greater. When we do that, it means when we create socially sensitive mechanisms, then we can go into a slight increase in the price of electricity that can then add that surplus to some fund for renewable resources, for energy efficiency, for filters and for the restoration of these plants that work on lignite. I just want to say one more thing and not be too long, since it's already been 15 minutes. You cited some criticism, I said which was roughly a criticism at ODS and here I agree that they have to take those measurement places faster or it was just your advice, suggestion. You are listed in the Report and I think that I will repeat it here, because I want to emphasise the seriousness of what you have stated, should not challenge any replica, that is, that the transport "Gas Serbia" has been rejected twice in 2019 by the Energy Agency in terms of licensing, or licensing. I am deeply convinced that this is for a reason and that this is because the transport "Gas Serbia" did not meet the conditions for obtaining a licence. I think we all need to take this seriously. In that sense, Ministerial Energy has full support. Furthermore, you have listed the fact that since 2011, everyone who, and with us only has "Srbiagas" and "Yugorosgas", has been engaged in the transport of gas, i.e. which transport system operators are obliged to have a precise measurement of the flow and the amount of gas that has come out and that it is automatically updated, or processed, into one place, to say, the information point. I say, it's been a commitment since 2011, and it's been said like this, that in 2017, "Srbigas" had a 61% achievement, and that's how he equipped these exit points, and in 2019, two years later, only 1% more and you realize that almost nothing was done in two years. I just want to say it again, that it's not as great as we sometimes think, that when someone criticises there are reasons for criticism, there are objective places, these are objective places for criticism. Unlike "Srbigas", "Yugorosgas", I must say that he did it immediately and that with "Yugorosgas" there is no problem on this issue because they are somewhere in the ego because they are both operators of the transport system. The third remark that you stated in your report, that gas distribution system operators are obliged to take over measuring devices and measured regulatory stations owned, probably since 2015, when changes were made to the law and that 17 of the 33 distribution system operators had already done so immediately, or had already been resolved, they had owned and measured control stations and measuring devices. For those of you who don't know, a measure of regulation in the gas system is something like a trafo station in the power system. However, among those 16 who have done nothing about it, there is "Srbigas", our largest gas company in Serbia, and I did not invent it, according to a report by the Energy Agency for 2019. So all you had to do was read this report carefully and nothing else. Of course, with all the thanks to you, I have to agree with my colleague Marijana Risticevic, who is not present at the moment, and that is that we cannot and must not gluff, with all due respect, any agency. The agencies are independent regulatory bodies, but, you know, in terms of expertise, agencies are not academia of science. The agencies aren't even scientific institutes. The agencies have people who know the skills needed for the work they do and the kind of glorification that is present in our public, and even in the work of the political public, it doesn't stand, because, you know, in the Medicines Agency, there's not one that can invent a vaccine against Kovid 19. Such people sit in scientific institutes and laboratories. That's why Mr. Marian's criticism, which is a little bit about profits and that someone still needs those profits and the amount of those profits to control, I think it stands. You've got about three million gross, I think, per an employee as a payday, gross, I'm not saying it's net, and I see more and more expenditure on rolling stock and equipment. It's probably about computer and some other equipment. So there are some minor remarks, but in any case I commend your report, I find it very good, very objective and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3944	Thank you. If I could just add to what you said, Mr. Bangur, not only can we criticise the Agency, but I would also like to do so if we didn't glorify the energy community so much. You know what, most of what this says here is assuming we didn't do what the Energy Community was looking for. The same Energy Community, which nostified Kosovo's transmission system, it can and "Transportgas" cannot, it has property or has no property. He's got our property that we pay back today. So on the double arches, I think it's also necessary to say something here. On the other hand, of course, your task here is to take care of Serbia's national and state interests and energy security and energy systems. I was personally present when US Vice President Biden asked President Vukic that we no longer buy Russian gas, but U.S. liquid gas. Where's that American liquid gas and how much is it, Mr. Kovacevic? Is that the liberalisation we want? So, unrelated to everything Mr. Bandur said, personal issues, businesses and everything else, this is about capital things for the state, for the people, and that's why I think it's very important, and when we discuss all of this, that we have this in mind, that not everyone wants us to do well, but that they want our energy system to become independent, to break up, and that in some way it has some serious consequences. I'm sorry, I just wanted to add this to yours. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3945	I thank President Dacic. Thank you for this discussion, too, for being attached to a colleague of the Bandjura who had a comprehensive exposure but very good quality. I certainly won't be able to follow the level of his knowledge and education and this area, as well as his colleagues, Tomic, as well as a total of our club today paying special attention to this area. This is an area that is extremely important, because by considering this report by the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia, we are truly showing and not only the interest of citizens as end consumers, but also in all of what you have said to Mr Dacic, about the energy sovereignty that the Republic of Serbia has in each segment and, of course, can carry out certain policies, so it can also file such reports that, in any case, with sufficient certainty, all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are following this transfer to realize that the state of Serbia cares about their interests, taking care of everything else that has become a whole series of speculation in certain media these days. That's why it's very important and good that you're here today. I also urge you to engage proactively in a discussion with MPs and to answer certain questions that I will ask, just so that today when we have the opportunity, when we are having so much discussion and showing interest, we will give answers to certain issues that the public is seeking, but some media and certain oppositions are speculating to create confusion. I think it is your duty in this context to answer certain questions, to clarify from a professional angle certain speculations that exist in public, which I will talk about in my discussion. What I'm trying to say at the very beginning, given that when you read your report in content, you see how many important responsibilities you have. Extremely important responsibilities for both the economy and the economy and for the population and for every aspect, let me say, our country's energy security. In this context, I want to look back at what may not be sufficiently highlighted today, which is that the Republic of Serbia, in economic terms, still has the cheapest price of electricity for the consumer, and that we are here to say, leaders in terms of social sensitivity and electricity prices as a social category still. Only a few parameters, that Montenegro has a lower economic standard and average incomes have a 42.3% higher price or electricity level. Albania, which has 44% lower average incomes, has a 33% higher cost of electricity. Northern Macedonia 13% etc. It seems to me that only Ukraine has a cheaper price for electricity. Therefore, it speaks enough about the care and the strategy of our state summit, our Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the management of public enterprises, but above all strategic decisions that the "Electroprivreda" of the Republic of Serbia will not be privatised so far. It's a key thing that needs to be pointed out here. It should have a strong political state-of-the-art spine to withstand these blows, the interests of large players on the market that have surrounded Serbia, practically, from all sides. We have practically two other systems in the region, which are functioning by the same system of connected vessels, which is the Elektroprivreda of the Republic of Serbia and the Elektroprivred of Republika Srpska, of course, the Federation of BiH. In particular, given that I am a Serb of the Predrin Krajina Krajisnik, whatever you call me, I am glad, above all, that in such difficult circumstances Serbia has managed to announce capital projects that have been waiting for over 50 years. Last year, two Prime Ministers announced a capital, historic project in the upper waterfront of Drina, HES Gornja Drina, a new company to be established on principle 51% of the ownership of the Serbian state and 49% of the ownership of Republika Srpska. The White Wolf has been waiting for over 50 years as a historical project on Drina. It is this government, led by Ana Brnabic and the Serbian state, led by Aleksandar Vukic, that has launched these processes that have been capital processes, provided funds and are expected to complete the project for the next six to seven years, worth 520m euros. We are also talking about "Wolf White", but above all about the Foca Hydropower Plant and the Palci Hydropower Plant, which will be historically important for development, not only of the Republic of Serbia but also of Republika Srpska, hence BiH. You're the ones who are speculating in Sarajevo these days and trying to challenge this capital project, saying Republika Srpska has no jurisdiction in all this and how it does. The concession commission at BiH level does not award a single concession. That's what entity concessions do. Republika Srpska also has its Energy Commission and similar competencies, practically the same as you who represent us today in this report. In this context, it is extremely important to point out that all of these things that, meaning that we did not privatize our most important system of electro-priveds, that three components were installed which are crucial in all of this. We in our energy policy have an extremely pronounced social component that is expressed primarily at the price of electricity for households. The other one's a developmental one. In every capacity and all existing capacities and new ones show exactly this kind of story that implies that Serbia invests energy potentials both of these traditional and these ecological, green ones that you're talking about, which my colleagues have been talking about, but also this aspect of your report on regional co-operation. It's just an inseparable story that we separate Drina into two parts. They're the same energy systems. There is nothing more natural than the co-operation of the Elektroprivred Republic of Serbia and the Elektroprivred Republika Srpska. They used to be common systems. You correct me if I'm wrong. It's impossible to separate them. Only by good synergy, by political will, by determination can we create a new value for households on the one hand and on the other side of the Drina River. In that sense, I would like to ask you today a few questions to use this time to respond to certain speculations that these days confuse the public of the Republic of Serbia, which concerns this minimal increase, as regards the increase of the amount of compensation for renewable energy sources. I ask you to spread it to the citizens, that I do not have to as a MP here, although I have well informed myself, about how small increases are in the dinar equivalent that belongs to this category which means that we still have the lowest price in the region and how competitive we are in that sense. Also, to tell us here the analysis in terms of this story of quotas that we have to meet in terms of green energy, which must be produced by the Republic of Serbia and on the other hand by concessions produced by natural resource-based concessions, whether it's solar energy, whether it's wind power plants, whether it's small hydropower plants, how much they pay concessions, how much they get compensation, and that it's finally known once and for all that there's no abuse, why we have to do certain things. As they reflect in the long term the quality of life, the quality of air, the quality of the environment in the Republic of Serbia and why this must be done. Please come out and finally break this story once, that all those who report to certain media are trying to confuse the public of the Republic of Serbia, why the Republic of Serbia is doing this and what the parameters are in the future, or what direction we're going in. Is this a new law on renewable energy sources, which are ways in which the Republic of Serbia will protect its living space, its resources to protect, and on the other hand to find the possibility to create as much green energy as possible, because it is the future not only for rivers that may be in focus in this sense say the most, but also for solar energy, for wind power plants, of course for gas and for everything else that I see in any case these days is an impact topic. Please once again, you have a great opportunity here for the public, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and also for those bad intentions that exist, it is your duty and I believe in you to give answers that are correct. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3946	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3947	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the respected representatives of the Agency, I thought I would not answer the word, I have a special reason. Today is my difficult day, because the former president of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, died just today in a criminal UN tribunal in Seveningen, and as a man, the last witness in his defence, today I am mixed with special feelings. Let me say a few sentences, though. What to say after my esteemed colleagues and colleagues who have well assessed this report by the Agency. He was truly comprehensive and transparent. I don't have anything special to add, just to say that in these eight years, however, Serbia has become a country of energy efficiency. We couldn't imagine it in 2012 when we came to power. Now that I've taken the floor, let me say a few sentences. These days, when all our institutions are fighting an unfair fight against organised crime, I immediately give recognition to the MUP and BIA, and to other institutions of our country, individual opposition leaders in the field with some foreign elements work daily to Satanise the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, his family and his parents. I warned you, there are six years here, every month in the form of parliamentary questions and the prosecution has never answered me. If the answer is yes, nothing concrete is very indicative. It's not just about Satanizing the president of the Republic, it's about his closest associates. Unfortunately, some journalists, too, immediately say that there are good journalists, but also some journalists attack, not only the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, his family and his parents, but also attack the state of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by calling Serbia a madhouse, and most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been declared insane, and the President of the Republic is totally insane. Evidence, you know that I will never speak in my mind and please don't accidentally warn me when I quote, by code I have to quote exactly what stands. You know that well, you didn't warn me...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3948	I'm not in charge, it's Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3949	Okay. We're in charge, yes, but I'll have a chance to defend myself after CRTA sued me.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3950	The committee he runs discusses these objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3951	I will, I think I'll be there.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3952	Wait, we're not here yet, you say in advance you'll definitely get it. Easy, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3953	I'm sorry, but you have no right to comment and enter my word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3954	No, I'm not commenting, I'm just saying say it, don't say it in advance, they'll sue you slowly.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3955	Thank God. I've already been sued. I got a call. You may not know it, but I got a call. But let's move on. So they declared him crazy. Evidence – TV under the control of Dragan Gilas is doing it daily. So beautiful Vesna Mališić, I have the courage to call her here, on February 1, 2019, on the show "The impression of the week", said, quoting that "Serbia is a madhouse", finished quote, "most citizens crazy", finished quote, "and that the keys of the madhouse are held by one man", referring to Alexander Vukic. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you are witnesses. I'm asking them to deny whether this is true or not. UNS President Radomirovic then recommended that she, as he was also a guest of the show, change the profession, I quote: "to change the profession". Mrs. Olja Bećkovic was deaf. I ask various associations of journalists why they didn't react, if this is a hate speech, and here in the context of certain MPs, they pull out and every evening they try to satanicize individual MPs, such as Dr Orlic these days, thinking to separate us from the President of the Republic. Well, there's no way I'm gonna tell them right now. No theoretical way. Who's gonna shut us up here? Nyss wasn't in The Hague. He couldn't shut up either, and they couldn't shut up on October 5th. The problem now comes to light in scientific journals both west and east of what they were doing. But let's move on. Mr. Cosic, from January 2018 to March 2019, received a total of 249,862 euros from one company in the wars in the years 2019. Could he possibly justify this money he's getting? So, on November 19th, 2019. If he did get that money, did he justify it by showing the Republic of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija for half an hour on the show? Isn't that right, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Speaking of journalists and opposition colleagues, one of Gilas' advisers at an institute daily satanizes the President of the Republic and his family. That doctor, the great doctor of science, has been insulting the President of the Republic for a year now. Just two data. On March 21st, 2020, he said, quote: "In the framework of the pandemic I saw that the country is managed by complete idiots," a quote concluded. In the same day, he said, quoting: "Wolf Wolf", a quote was completed. I quote further: "a prime minister is chattering", finished quote. "Vučić is a mental leader," finished quote. And on July 25, 2020, Mr. 2020, he said... But before that, let me say that on March 21st, 2020, the same person told the President of the Republic that, I quote: "a man of twisted faces", finished a quote, "and a complete idiot", and its environment, we are "moral nitwits and complete fools", finished a quote. Dear citizens of the Republic, have you ever heard this in this high house in the last eight years that we've ever told political opponents? We never said. Is that a hate speech, gentlemen journalists? Have you called about that? That same gentleman who feasts every other day said for himself, I'll end up with this quote, but he did the job. That's what the Gicky Mafia knows about. This is what he said on July 25th, 2020, and I quote, "I think I've turned out to be a moron a million times in my life," so that citizens know what it means: fool, in translation. "I really don't have the right to salt someone's mind. I realized that I am a fool, not once but many times," finished the quote. That's what that gentleman said when he did the mission, the year and a few days at the N1 CIA. Speaking of that part, let me say that he's come to us, believe it or not, we've heard from him these days, and the gentleman who was a National MP left us here, Balša Bozovic, the one from Maldives, who often comes to us. We called it the Maldives. He'd been here for five minutes, swearing on us, running out, and that was his job. As it drags me through the press, Balsa Bozovic, I am informing you, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, has founded the Academy of Democracy of the Balkans, based in Novi Sad. Look at the wonders, him and Mrs. Jerkov. He's really a pathological liar. Evidence. First of all, he lied about Alexander Vukic, his family, the President's brother, Marijan Risticevic, Dr Orlic, Dr Martinovic and you, Mr President, I have three statements. Look wonders, in a study called "Mapping False News and Spreading Disinformation in the Western Balkans", done for the European Parliament's Foreign Policy Committee, it is said: "Look at Wonders, Citizens", I quote that the largest distributor of false news in Serbia is Balša Bozovic and Branko Dragas, those who spit on us every night through the portal." If there is at least a little morality, at least a little possession of humanity, political culture and human morality, that this liar at least apologizes to all these MPs and to Alexander Vukic and his family and Dr Aleksandr Martinović and Dr Orlic and Marijana Rističević and Mr. President of the Dacic Assembly and many of the MPs he lied about here all the time. Let's move on. When it comes to false news, there's one man who spreads false news every day, and that's, this is for the press before I say it. Gentlemen, in addition to honorary journalists, I will address a 1953 quote by John Swinton, former head of staff at the New York Times on a toast he held outside the New York Press Club in 1953. Be careful, gentlemen of the press, find yourself in this quote. I quote: “The job of a journalist is to destroy the truth, to lie openly, to twist, to make noise, to worship before a golden calf, to sell their own land and people to earn bread, and everyone knows it. We are the tools and servants of the rich behind the scenes." What do you say now, gentlemen? I quote: “We are puppets, they draw strings, and we dance. ” Finally, I conclude the quote: “Our talents, our opportunities and our lives are owned by other people. We are intellectual prostitutes," said John Swinton, a former chief of staff at the New York Times, on a toast he held outside the New York Press Club in 1953. On every journalist's conscience to be recognized. Speaking of these gentlemen, these days our honourable MP has appeared, he has been to the end, which we have respected, and that is Djordje Vukadinovic, who has accused the government of migrants. I will not, Mr. President, answer, just to give one quote to our political opponent Goran Jesic, who is totally on the opposite side, but he said about Vukadinovic, quote – 16 August 2020, quote – Djoku Vlaha, should be beaten because he said that migrants were drugged and drunk and called on the responsibility of police and municipal police. A nationalist cattle who, for the sake of congregation apologising, declared himself a Vlach. He's got a problem with migrants, he deserves a beating, wherever we meet him, he's done with the quote. Speaking of opposition colleagues... (President: Do you have any nicer quotes? I have an extraordinary quote, Mr. President, and that's the one that attacked physically here in the Republika Srpska Assembly, which is Bosko Obradovic, who was an MP here. To tell the citizens who this man is, and you respected citizens, as you watch the transmission judge whether I'm telling the truth or not. Bosko Obradovic raided the RIK, attacked a member of the RIK, is that right, honourable MPs? He raided the municipality of Caves, is that right, distinguished MPs? Breaking into the office of Maja Gojkovic, is that right, honourable MPs? Breaking into the Gucha Police Station, is that right, distinguished MPs? Breaking into the RTS building with a saw, is that right, distinguished and respected citizens? Breaking into the Upper Milanovac City Assembly building, right, gentlemen from those parts? An attempt to break into REM, an attempt to break into the Serbian presidency building, do you remember respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Breaking into the Belgrade City Assembly building, Mr. Mirkovic, do you remember you and the gentlemen of the City Assembly very well? Breaking down the fence in front of the Serbian Parliament, is that right, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? The invasion of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the flag and violently opened the door here, thought it was his fifth October. Well, there's some other people sitting here who won't let it easily. Next, the attack on Dr. Martinovic at the board meeting, because that's how members of the board of directors? An attack on a PINK journalist, is that so-respecting citizens of the Republic of Serbia? The attack on Dr Martinovic at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 29 December 2019 and physically attacked him here at the sight of all of us. Asked the Serbian Army to carry out a coup and arrest President Vukic, remember the prominent citizens of the Republic of Serbia? He threatened Vukic with slapping, for God's sake for betraying Kosovo and Metohija, and he told the American embassy at the job dispatch office, a Mrs Brass called herself, silenced who watered and nodded his head. Furthermore, on November 19, 2019, I quote – Vukic must have an emergency heart surgery in the United States to survive, right now, that is why it is the right time to intensify attacks on him from all available weapons, is that right, honourable MPs? Isn't that right, Bosko Beard, who's watching this now? The attack was insulted by Dr. Professor. Dragoljub Micunović. You know what Micunović is to him, a respected colleague of professors. Micunovic, quote - I am not interested in political hooligan Bosko Obradovic, who is trying to introduce tabloid prostitution into our political life, finished quote. Gentlemen of the opposition, are we introducing this or are you? I'm Mr. Honorable Micunović characterized it. I was an eyewitness, May 8, 2020 and saved here, my little bit of Marjan Risticevic, physically at the entrance, never one journalist asked me, let them say whether or not, because he would tell them the truth. In the end, the work ends, according to the stars, Zoran Lutovac, I heard that the president, now I don't know which parties, the people call him a stray because he strayed into politics, now whether he or this Lecic, as he is called, has accused the government, believe it or not, of campaigning against migrants. He was answered by party counterpart Goran Jesic on 20 February 2020 and said, listen to the honourable MPs - it has nothing to do with the authorities, it has to do with a fool who wanders around Serbia with an painted colder, spreads fear, lies like a dog and makes political campaign out of unhappy people – finished quote. Dear People's MPs, the Honorable President of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia headed by President Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of MPs in this high house and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are conducting an accelerated process of modernising the Republic of Serbia. The engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic. While our president is making superhuman efforts to modernise Serbia and implement peace policy in the Balkans and around the world, so far Dragan Gilas, and for Europe, Gilas satanizes the president of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia, respected MPs and individual ministers. You know why he works? He thinks he'll separate us from the President of the Republic. You didn't paint for nothing, Mr. Gillash. Your Honor, I will certainly vote in favour of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3956	Thank you. Professor Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3957	Thank you, Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, of course, the topic of energy is important and the role of the Energy Agency is important in creating a favourable environment that perhaps one of the few most important economic branches can continue to develop in our country and an economic branch that has great potential when it comes to improving and empowering our GDP, when it comes to empowering the economy and, of course, the creation of new jobs. I would also like to point out that the issue of energy and governance, the efficient management of energy potentials in our country is of strategic importance for the country and not only of economic but also of, we also talk about geopoliticals, also means geopolitical importance. Since electricity, gas, oil supply, renewable energy sources are considered key geopolitical factors, but also factors that determine in some ways how much integrity one country has, how much independence it has. It is very important in the future that Serbia does what President Vukic has defined as a prime minister, which is to diversify supply, i.e. diversify energy policy and that the issue of the development of our economy, the issue of gas supply in our country is something that will be our country's choice and will be such that Serbia can choose and have more sources of gas supply. I must point out that in this domain, much has been done since Serbia had and was up to a few months ago only completely dependent on gas supply from the Russian Federation, that we now have the possibility of supplying from the Turkish flow. Of course, this gas comes from the Russian Federation, but in addition to being a final user, Serbia is now a transit country, and more importantly, that gas through Serbia is going further towards Western Europe, which makes us an even more geopoliticalally significant country and connects Western Europe's co-operation with Serbia in terms of further strengthening and Serbia's co-operation and definition as a significant player when it comes to further energy policy and development and co-operation within the energy community. It is very important to note that in this geopolitical sense, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia also said that Serbia is open to co-operation with all. It is open to supply and to work on energy projects and with the Russian Federation, it is open to co-operation with the People's Republic of China, it is open to co-operation with the Americans, but as far as we can show it in the past few years, on real grounds and with all those who can ensure that enough gas comes to Serbia to make our economy work and to ensure the future of our economy and, of course, current and future jobs. Serbia is not only focused here on Gazprom Oil and co-operation with Gazprom Oil. What is very important to point out is that Serbia is actively participating in what is today called the "East Med" pipeline, which is built by Israel, Cyprus and Greece and which aims to supply Europe through the Greek island of Crete, must continue, through Italy and other countries in Central and Western Europe and Serbia will, I am sure, continue to participate in the project, as a country that is very open to co-operate with everyone in this domain. This gas pipeline that is being built, the arm that we are working together, to the Bulgarian border and which Bulgaria will build, aims to provide Serbia with gas from Greece, in fact, I think it is an American gas, and it is another kind of diversification of gas supply and ensuring our country's independence and independence of better conditions, of course, and better prices on the market, when it comes to gas for domestic, both domestic and foreign companies. What is very important to point out is that, when it comes to the Energy Agency, there is full support in this and from us who represent the majority of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on what is called the creation of a good environment for energy businesses to do such that our energy and energy system is efficient and to be in service of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which, of course, cannot be said for some time. Today we have this situation that some who literally have brought our energy system to a collapse by 2012, which led to the mining-topic base Bor standing before collapse and being shut down, they are today criticising the Republic of Serbia for new investments, for new jobs and for new research, trying, of course, to replace the the thesis. Those who could leave without bread and intend to leave several thousand workers in RTB Bor, those of whom the US investors left and sold the figuratively "Ju-Es-Stil" for one euro, who did not know they were in such situations because they didn't care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they are also worshiping us today and telling us that "Rio Tinto" is one of the most prominent companies in the energy and mining sector in the whole world, that their research has been done for several years in the Republic of Serbia and that Alexander Vukic, as president of the Republic, has also found a good balance between the development of the economy, the development of the energy sector and the protection of our country's environment. Do you think the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, traveled to the United Arab Emirates just to encourage the sale of agricultural products to our friends and partners in the Emirates, Bahrain and other Middle East countries? It's not the only subject, of course. One of the topics and one of the main topics of co-operation between the United Arab Emirates and Serbia is energy, as the United Arab Emirates have great conditions and huge investments in renewable energy sources. A whole city called Masdar, Masdar City, Masdar City, which besides Abu Dhabi operates on the basis of energy efficiency of renewable energy sources, almost 90%. The Mubadala company, which is the product of Masdar City, their research, their good connection between science, scientific and technological research and investments carried out on this plan, is precisely the owner of the windmill, or the chibuk, and we should be proud of it and we should admit and be proud of what we want to learn from others. The United Arab Emirates are a country which, unlike many Arab countries rich in oil and gas, 66% of its GDP has oil and gas sales, and the rest has through investments exactly in renewable energy, tourism and other industries and has managed to diversify its economy in this way. And that is one of the great opportunities of the Republic of Serbia to develop energy efficiency, to develop renewable energy sources, but, of course, parallel to developing corporations and its energy companies, to influence their management to be more efficient. I am sure that Energy Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, given her management skills, will do much on this plan and position our firms in the best possible way and will do so to make them more efficient and to be a much better service to citizens and businesses in the coming period and in the coming years. To finish here, Serbia today has, when it comes to the energy sector, the presence of companies from around the world, the interest of companies from around the world. I believe that we have excellent legislation, but more importantly, we have a vision of President Alexander Vukic who is one of the great focus of his time, of his energy, has just invested in raising the energy sector in our country, raising the level of governance in energy-related companies, but constantly taking into account, of course, the health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and taking into account the balance to be made between the protection of the environment, that is, human health and, of course, economic development, which I think will be one of the priorities and which will reflect the policy of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. All those who have no other arguments, but by trying... And that's what my colleagues were talking about earlier on about false news, who are ready to tell the truth, who are ready to speak attitudes that are not based on facts, it's important to say that the citizens have recognized that Vukic is about to develop Serbia, that Vucic is currently fighting for the citizens of our country and is taking care of what is "condio son qua non" our policy, Serbian Progressive Party policies, the policies of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the policies of President Alexander Vukic, which is economic development, these are jobs and absolutely, as well as foreign policy, will continue to be managed with our interests, Serbian interests, our country's interests. It's not gonna happen because Mr. Dacic was saying, what some white-world power man is going to come and say -- buy our gas that we're going to transport to the tankers, which may be twice as expensive as the gas you're getting from the Russian Federation company. We will absolutely behave marketically, we will absolutely act as in the "Turkish Stream" project, because it is important that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know that one of the largest beneficiaries, i.e. the countries most benefiting from the "Turkish Stream", is Serbia, Bulgaria and Serbia, because we will become a country that, in addition to expanding the possibility of delivering gas from Russia through Turkey and Bulgaria to our country, will charge transportation fees for gas going to other Western European countries. Of course, and safely, economics has become much, much more important than it was before, both for the Russian Federation and for Turkey, but of course also for Western Europe, the European Union, because, of course, what is the strategic goal of our country is to become a full member of the European Union, but it also has such an important security connotation, because by making international transport of gas, such an important energy energy, goes through Serbia, protects itself and, of course, affects the security of this country. It doesn't take much to remind myself that in the last 10, 15 years on a global scale, bloody wars are being fought precisely because of gas and exactly because of the pipeline route. Not to mention what is happening today in Syria, because the pipeline could not have passed through Syria from Qatar through Diyarbakir, Turkey and, of course, that way to Europe. The wolf has managed to, in a wise way, lead us in a more likely way to get gas into our country. And to explain to our citizens and to be simple and clear, that we have more gas, that we have more and better supplies, that our economy is doing better and what's most important today, to be stable and to be safe. Therefore, of course, we will continue to support all those, including, of course, the Energy Agency, who influence this environment to be better and that our country has a secure supply of energy and that our energy system is better and more stable, of course, thanks to President Alexander Vukic, thanks to his vision and knowledge of what this energy really is and how important it is and how important it will be in the future as a factor of our economic development, but of course, the security of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3958	Thank you. The National MP of Ugljesa Mrdić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3959	Dear President Dacic, dear Mr Popovic and his associates from the Energy Agency, distinguished fellow MPs, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the excellent policy of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, our country is an energy leader, not only in the Western Balkans, but also in Southeast Europe. To get me to that position, it wasn't easy at all. I would just like to remind myself, and not to repeat myself with my brilliant previous speakers from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I would like to start with my colleague, Veroljub Arsic, as a joke of the authorised assembly committee, to Professor Mark Atlagic and Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, to point out that in the past we have had numerous blows to the energy sector. First, we should never forget what damage NATO's aggression is during NATO bombing, what damage has been done to the Republic of Serbia's energy system. Let's remember all the graphite bombs dumped on the power grids and how much Serbia had lost at the time and that it took us years and years to return and we haven't even returned to some sectors regarding energy at the same level. Why? Because in the meantime, after the five-October changes, we had the savagery of the energy mafia in the Republic of Serbia. I would just remind myself that just one of the first anti-corruption fighters in energy and the first man to point out what was going on in the area of crime and corruption in the energy sector was Alexander Vukic, then in the post of MP. Let us remember that at that time, the Survey Committee was formed, which did a great job and then made it clear, the Committee of Auditors led by Aleksandr Vukic, what was going on in Serbia's energy sector. Fortunately, political changes took place in 2012 and started to invest properly in the energy sector. How important is the energy sector? I can freely say that as far as businesses are concerned, besides energy, agriculture, these may be the two most important areas, especially as regards the Republic of Serbia, the energy sector and the relationship between Serbia and Republika Srpska. As someone who was born in eastern Herzegovina, who today would be a hungry valley if there were no assistance from the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic and no energy sector, I would remind that only in eastern Herzegovina there are several hydropower plants on the Neretva River and on the Trebišica River. It is these hydropower plants, and it is Serbia's energy aid to the Serbian people in eastern Herzegovina that are feeding Republika Srpska. The same is true of Podrinj. Hydropower plants on the Drina, run either by Serbia or Republika Srpska, are guaranteed and developed by the eastern part of Republika Srpska, with the help of the Republic of Serbia. So the energy sector is not only important for Serbia's development, it is also important to help the Serbian people in Republika Srpska. However, Aleksandar Vukic and the developed energy sector are disturbing all those thieves who are used to mob business in almost all areas. Of course that bothers Dragan Sollaku, I have to remind him, because this is exactly the most recent example of how one individual, along with his associates, has done great damage to the EPS and citizens of Serbia, only because of illegal connections, has damage been done to citizens of Serbia and the EPS and Belgrade power plants of 36m euros. And, of course, when you want to rip someone out of the pocket of 36m euros stolen and not allow them to reear new 36m euros, of course the Serbian-Alexander Vukic government is in the way. But in the end, what I must point out, Serbia proved and showed in a very difficult 2020, in the year against the crown of the virus, that we are the first in Europe as regards vaccination, that we are the first in Europe as regards economic development, but that we are also the first in Europe to fight the mafia and that we are leaders in Europe, one of the leaders in Europe and as regards the development of the energy sector. Why? Thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia and thanks to our President, Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3960	Thank you. Just to remind you that after this debate, there will be an immediate vote, so count around 1800 hours, or a few minutes more or less, there will be a vote and we may have to vote a little longer because of these individual votes for members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Let's move on. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. You have 28 minutes, you and Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3961	We'll set it evenly. Dear President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, the distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, of course, this report is very good. And after a discussion of over 30 speakers and now it can't even be counted for how many hours, I think that everything regarding this report has been said long ago and I think that each of the MPs who used their discussion to look at on the expert side of everything in the report, said and hit the target, at the very center. I think about that, at least I won't waste too many words. What bothers me as a national MP and, above all, as a citizen of Serbia, is that in a dirty campaign against all state-owned enterprises that after 2013 and 2014 strengthened, if we want to publicly view it, stood up, raised salaries, increased the size of the job, further earned and thus strengthened our country, there was a hack, a campaign of the works of the opposition representing the former regime, DS, and unfortunately, an adequate response was not given to people sitting in those businesses, and in particular it was an EPS, except for Mr. Greek, whether because of the lack of courage or perhaps out of fear that they too did not get through the warm rabbit DS, first of all, Dragan Gilas and his megaphone, but now also the person on his payroll in "Medica" Marinika Tepic, it was not only wrong to do so in the business, so far. I only use this opportunity to remind people that investments in Serbia's Elektroprivred, between 2004 and 2012, amounted to around 230m euros, and 400m euros have passed from 2013 to 2019 in just six years. So here you can see how taking care of EPS led the company DS, the private company DS, and here you can see how much they care about EPS, and otherwise personal interests above all. What best shows how much they've ruined this company is the fact that they got 28 billion dinars from the state then just to cover the liquidity. So they're talking about liquidity. By 2015, the new EPS leadership, Elektroprivrede Serbia managed to return all this and today they are asking for nothing from the state. I'm telling you all this because Marinika Tepic, a person who now represents an alternative and represents himself for a new person, whose boss is Dragan Djilas, a man whose time was like this, during the DS, has systematically ruined our country, and along with that, all state-owned enterprises... What is a special paradox is the fact that they are in each other's account between Tadic and Kostunica, you know better maybe, and some here remember, in each other's calculation and calculation, Tadic has replaced some of the established affairs with dozens of engineers, such experts have not been so avenged by Kostunica. Now, that was the time of the DS and when the personal and party interest was above all else. Speaking of Marinika Tepic, I discussed yesterday what kind of organised campaign is being done against President Aleksandar Vukic, but above all how it is used every day to relativise the fight against the mafia, organised crime and the dangers in which Aleksandar Vukic is located. Yesterday, she made some very big lies. It turns out that Misa Vacic is more dangerous than the Japanese, a member of the Zemun clan, who is grinning at Dragan Dilas in pictures. That I'm not making up anything or telling the truth, that's this picture. So, although I don't agree with Misa Vacic about anything really, but you won't convince me that he is more evil than this man, brother-in-law, formerly or at the moment, currently Dragan Gilas, who was arrested with two kilos of cocaine or less danger than this gentleman, who was the first associate of Dragan Gilasu to be on a municipal board, who was arrested with 66kg of marijuana. That's what Mrs Tepic claims that our country, as a woman, wanted to represent as genocide. She was the signator of the resolution they submitted to this parliament, to adopt a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica, and that's the person who is this man, will turn out, look at the wonders, what Professor would say. Atlagic, another drug dealer, used to intimidate journalists, persecutors, and to fulfill some personal claims and preserve some personal interest. Today, the lady, of course, went to the hunt, where she continued her hajka, stood yesterday, and today, in her presentation, she again accused Alexander Vukic with various lies. However, today we do not hear from Mrs Tepic any answers to the questions asked by both my colleague Pilja and Mrs Sandra Christmas, the questions I have asked here, we have not received any answers. If they came to see President Vukic's address last night and they could comment on everything he said, I'm only interested, so give us some comment, is it really Dragan Gilas has some hidden accounts on Mauritius? So, for Switzerland, we know, for Chug, for secret firms, secret accounts and everything else that he and his brother own, but you're all here to comment, but you haven't been able to give us an answer to whether it's true that Dragan Gilas has bills on Mauritius and what those accounts are for. That all this is not a coincidence and that the situation has been repeated since yesterday, says Gajic's address, Vladimir Gajic, to me, now the man who is the chairman of the National Party's legal council, Vuk Jeremic. Yesterday, he again targeted President Aleksandar Vukic with a statement that this was not an act against the mafia, but a scandal between the mobs, because it was a cleanup of competition. Unfortunately, no one has responded yet. The man who was celebrated for being arrested in 2007 in the "Genex" affair because he encouraged people to various dishonest acts, where 62m euros were embezzled, and a man who falsely represented himself as president of Belgrade's Bar Association, and then the Belgrade Bar of Lawyers had to deny it, continued his attacks today, so he called this fight against the mafia the latest act of power by President Aleksandar Vukic. I don't know how I'd better describe it and end this whole thing and close it as far as these stories are concerned, except for the fact that a man with such references, so he's already been arrested, because of his lies they had to advertise, the Belgrade Attorney's Chamber of Lawyers to deny him, and today he's confirmed what kind of man he's dealing with, and he said that the attorney's office, the house he belongs to, defends and represents the person who is in this "touching" affair suspect, and it's about Diana Hrkalovic. So he and his lawyer's house defend and represent one of the people mentioned in this "touching" affair, and this shows you that they are the only task and the goal of being on the sidelines of the mafia and giving each defence. If he wasn't alone in it, I'd slowly bring the end, make sure his back was guarded by a certain Alexic, Miroslav Aleksic, you know who that man is. From a week ago, it seems to me that, a week or two, he was given court confirmation that he was a liar because Mr. Alexander Vukic and his brother, Andrej Vukic, had, without any shame, accused them of taking part in the affair "Jovanjavica", and now that it was proved to be a lie and false, he announces John 2 John 3, and threatens everything, thinking that like Marinika Tepic, every lie broken with the truth will be filled with some new imaginary affair and a new lie. To the very end, yesterday I was talking about Mr. Orlic and the warm rabbit he's going through just because he told the truth. We heard here that Mr. Atlagic was sued for breaking the code. Yesterday Mr. Orlic received the same suit, and from today, as I sent it, about 15, 20 minutes to half an hour ago, and Mr. Martinovic received the same paper at his address. Mr. Martinovic's only sin, as Professor Atlagic would say, is the same as Mr. Orlic, who told the truth yesterday. In this campaign, everyone who doesn't say what suits them, anyone who tells the truth has to go through some kind of lynching and satanization. These attacks for us MPs have become normal, but imagine our party colleague, Vladka Malovic, today, survives the torture of Georgiev, some journalist, and that is, just to remind the citizens, the man who said that all those who are for SNS must be put in camps, it is about such a man. He's been trying to make his, come on, I'll call them that, rude comments offending Vladan Malovic just because she told the truth. Mantra is known to all – by lying to try to reduce the results achieved by SNS, but above all President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of Serbia and that anyone who speaks the truth is terrified. To the very end, I will still order everything that Mr. Martinović said yesterday, everything that Mr. Orlic said yesterday, I am confident, I speak for myself first of all, but I am confident that I speak for the rest of my fellow MPs in our group, we are all behind the fact that everyone who is having a problem with the truth, justice and results will continue to fight for a decent, normal, better and better Serbia, because for us from the SNS than the better and greater future of our country for generations to come and for all our children there is no greater and better task. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3962	Thank you. The word has a vice president, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. You've got 15 and a half minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3963	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I am certainly fully in line with the views that MPs from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vucic – presented to our children today, as regards the various challenges in the energy sector and concerns different needs, specifically in the field of energy policy. I have answered to say a few more things that I consider to be important, and they are important because they directly concern the National Assembly as an institution and as far as we are concerned as the MPs and there is no one more invited, I think these matters are addressed, than the MPs themselves. No matter how hard they try, those who seem to have assigned themselves nothing-provoked roles to be judges, that they may be some arbiters who decide which topics they may be laughing at, which they may not speak of by chance of speaking how long, how loudly, in any way, and in any way, so as much as they think they should decide on these issues, somehow we MPs, that we should deal primarily with the National Assembly and the questions that we raise here. It's about what you were talking about earlier, and you, a respected colleague, and it's about a hickey that's being conducted by the so-called. "open Parliament", or the NGO CRTA, to which the open parliament belongs, whose component it is. A hijka who leads all the MPs who dare to speak out for that policy that we are citizens, the people of this country, chosen to represent. If we dare, if we dare to take any way to protect the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, his family or people who are de facto, and today it is perfectly clear to everyone in this country, precisely because Serbia is here today thanks to Alexander Vukic, and that many seem unacceptable to Serbia to be strong, successful country, to be convincingly the best in the region by any parameters you take, which many think Serbia must be humbler, to be much more modest in its results, not to squish, and whenever we put our head above the water in which we were pushed by the former regime and any of their foreign mentors, whenever we ask for something from the air to breathe, look after-poly to push our head back. When we stand up to it in any way, then the Messengers of the people should also be the object of the hunt and of all the wonderful things that they have shown us that only they can give us, give us, and desire these things. Today, in a number of different applications for allegedly breaking the code, they added the indictment against the president of our parliamentary group, Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic. This open parliament and this CRTA. I'll show you what they wrote, what they claim and what it looks like. They announced that because of the accusations, that CRTA and this "initiative", this open parliament, as well as all those who seek the responsibility of the government, means good people who simply seek some responsibility and do nothing else in life have tried a coup and because of the call for hate and violence, be careful, because of the call for hatred and violence against everyone who thinks critically, means against some wonderful people who are free of spirit and something critical -- we have filed a complaint against Alexander Martinovic, head of the SNS Serbia parliamentary group. Then they hung up a video, so some material, some clip as it is said today, which has been sparked by a few sentences from the opening part of the exhibition of Aleksandar Martinovic, spoken here yesterday and several sentences from the very end. They've built a structure for us to call for hate, we call for violence. They even filed a report, I won't comment on how written it is, it's not so important now, in which they say that in those words, Alexander Martinovic directly called for violence against, imagine, them, all of those free minds who feel so freely and freely criticise. In order to make it perfectly clear to the people exactly what it is, I have here a stenogram from the session and what they have put into that video I can read to you exactly, to tell you what the words of Alexander Martinovic are allegedly controversial, and these are the words: "To Alexander Vukic the danger of those who consider themselves so-called. Pro-European and pro-democracy opposition. There are also individual NGOs such as CRTA and open parliament and a whole series of others." So these are mentioned and they are disputed that they are being brought into context with any pro-European and pro-democracy opposition, so we're going to see why that is. Also, there is a part of which mentions a bag in which, according to Aleksandar Martinovic, in words completely accurate, clear and accurate, they all put themselves in, set their own place and put themselves there. I quote: "It is therefore necessary to bear in mind that in the same bag against Aleksandra Vučić, both Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic and each so-called. intellectuals from Belgrade University and so-called Free independent journalists, and thus dependent on individual foreign embassies, individual tycoons, to put those working abroad against Alexander Vukic and working against the government of the Republic of Serbia in the same bag." This hit CRTU terribly, that open parliament of theirs, but once again, it's all the same and they've recognized each other in this. So, in the list on which Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, is located, one so-called. "intellectuals" may be because they think of themselves as intellectuals so they recognize themselves, although I don't know how much they are from Belgrade University, I'm not so sure, free and independent journalists might think they are, and how dependent they are on individual foreign embassies. Maybe it's a moment where there's been recognition, I don't know, they know it, depending on certain tycoons, maybe it's a moment where there's been recognition, they know it best, but we know something about the rest of us. Rasha Nedeljkov, that's the name of the man who heads this organization, has found that he is ashamed of these words and is then pretending that nothing is clear to him and told me personally - give evidence of any connection and of what you say from the assembly pay phone. So, on the subject of a relationship between that organization and this particular gentleman, I would have to contribute and attach this. This is the ladies and gentlemen of the chamber from the savage, violent assault on the presidency building that took place in March 2019. You remember all that unfeeling orgies of the former regime, and when I say the former regime, I mean these beautiful faces that you see in this picture, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, and between them in the front row, while in this photo you see, they break the fence in front of the presidency in their run-off, to fly there into the building where the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic. You see Mr. Rush Nedeljkov, a man who wonders what this relationship is today, what it is, when they threatened anyone, what they have to do with members of the former regime, self-called pro-European and self-proclaimed, you know everything. Essentially, tycoonically and what's not clear is that no one knows what the meaning of Dragan Gilas has to do with the term "tycoon". Let him ask this one here, this third one in the picture, Boška Obradovica. He explained not a small number of times the relationship between Dragan Gilas and the tycoon, but it's not the most important thing here either. It's important to know who's acting crazy when you're being ignorant. Was this a pure act of violence? Did this protest also break the hands and feet of police officers, as they did a few months ago in front of the National Assembly here? Were they trying to run over the cops with that truck that Bosko Obradovic personally fell into, here he is in this picture right here in front of that week's CRTE and all the other beautiful faces in this picture. Did they work there and bottles and knives and you know what? Now they say they don't understand what they have to do with anything. Not to be precise enough, the one from that picture he wants to hear about relationships from the assembly booth, Rasha Nedeljkov, here he is on the site of that organization CRTA, which is also his picture, that's the man shown as the programming director. So, the programming director of that organization. See what else is interesting here, in the section, that is, in this segment of the site that writes – our initiatives, these are their projects, there is the Truthomer, and there is the Open Parliament, so it is clear to the end why we say it is one and the same, that they are the same firm and that they are the same people behind each other. And if anyone asks us today, what these people have to do with all the things that we're talking about these days, let's just, in a few sentences, we don't have to repeat everything, just remind ourselves how much they say it doesn't have to do with each other. Did the people in this photograph and their closest associates actively participate all the time in the campaign of attempts to relativize, attempt to coup, attack Alexander Vukic and members of his family, pursue these people. Well, whoever's openly campaigning all these days and yesterday and today, and whenever you want it to be relativised, to say -- there's no honest and real fight against organised crime, it's all a lie, it's all a scam, it's all a media simulation. Who dared to claim that Alexander Vukic wasn't tapped and his family weren't tapped? Did Marinika Tepic, from the company of this Dragan Gilas, listen to her yesterday in this country? Yes, it is. Is Gajic, the one who has faked himself for years for the alleged president of Belgrade's Bar Association, and an honest and honorable man just as much as his boss Jeremic? Is he from this other man's firm here in the picture? Well, great company, wonderful company for CRTU and real people to hit cops together, break into fences and try to break into the Serbian presidency, and you don't know what kind of relationship you have with each other. Did they start their last stunt on the issue of the state's fight against organized crime drug dealers, those who poison our children and destroy our people? What do they have to do with it, or don't they have people in this photo? Who took pictures with the Zemun clan and the Japanese? Is this one here in the picture? That one. And as it was, with what 14 years and more had already served time in prison for drug dealing just and with any other thugs, thugs, they all have criminal charges and already convicted acts more than we've all eaten bread together in our lives. Is this the fourth one here in the picture, Bosko Obradovic? Who led the crowd here who beat up the MPs, who tried to kill Marijan Risticevic, so it seems it was a little bit, let's try someone else a little bit, right? You seem to have run into a wall of people who say, well, you can't do that in this country. Now you have nothing to do with any criminal clans? You have nothing to do with drug dealers? Well, it's not. Well, it's not. And you didn't participate and participate in a shameful campaign of attempts to discredit the state's fight against these and those. You weren't involved in embarrassing lies that apparently no one was listening to Alexander Vukic, allegedly no one was listening to his family. And you found yourself invited to react, to show some solidarity, I guess, because yesterday, Serbia was shaken by the information that came from the parents of one of those people who were founded suspected of being directly victims, directly, if you needed the correct use of the word "directly" by the CRTA gentlemen, this would be, therefore, which seems to be really liquidated by Belivuk and that clan. The father of one of these people said he got a call from Belivuk, who directed him to one of the newsrooms. He's focused on one of the editorials. And that, look at the case, so, it seems, has broken down, quite a few of those who were unwittingly stalking Alexander Vukic's son, for years, they haven't done anything else, they haven't served anything else, but only to try to criminalize this young man, to create such an impression that he himself is guilty of everything that might happen to him. And then someone tells us, when we're defending people in this country from these and such phenomena, that we're trying to endanger someone. Well, I guess we're guarding and I guess we're defending it from when someone feels wrong. Well, I guess we're saving and I guess we're defending against it when it's being dealt with by the worst criminals, when the institutions of this country are being abused, when the corrupt parts of the apparatus of the state, which unfortunately exist, are being used. None of us pointed a finger. That's what the man said about the fate of the child. Then they came to lead the hunt again against Alexander Vukic, against Alexander Vukic, he allegedly unfairly accused them of something. He didn't mention them. He didn't mention them. It's not him, it's not me, it's not any of us. But you know what's interesting, as they try to make victims out of themselves, just as the CRTE and the Open Parliament try, they're supposed to be haunted, and they're never missing hair from their heads and they don't need it and they're not, and it's a good thing he never asked them, never looked at them in the face when they were trampling other people, nor when they were chasing institutions, nor when they were chasing the presidency, the National Assembly, there was nothing wrong with them. They're allowed to show themselves who they are, what they are, what their attitudes are, what their methods are, what their system is worth, because it's good for people to see who's where they belong, where they're identified, where they're found, what kind of society they're in, and so it's only much better for the people to understand what's going on who's who and what they can expect. That there are no independents, no frees, no NGOs, no whatever you want, at least there are pro-Europeans, at least there are civilians. But to see who they are, what they are, and where they're from, they've all been let go, nobody's touched them, and they're like a few victims to play, so they're told by evil Alexander Vukic, they're haunted by his terrible regime and his disgusting MP group, the MPs who belong to Alexander Vukic's MP group for our children. Now they protect each other, supposedly so miserable and persecuted without being touched by anyone, without any of us telling them the word, and you know what's interesting, they say the things that burden them the most and the worst. So, just on who's with whom, how much does it matter and who defends who? Today, on one of the TVs, it is a television "N1" that certainly doesn't think and says anything good about Alexander Vukic, nor any of us, in a joint tour where this Gajic Jeremic was, so this man who also shamelessly claims that no one was listening to anyone, that no one was persecuting anyone, that no one tried to kill anyone here. He was involved with a journalist right from that newsroom that is now being solidized by those who are some kind of NGOs and you know what's interesting about it. That lady said these words at one point, I'll read them to you. So, on the direct question – are your sources from these criminal circles or not? He says - I have to point out, journalists, especially researchers, are seeing different people from both the police and the world of crime, etc. They said so themselves. Are we going to be guilty of what you said now? What's clear to the people of this country, but it's good you said. Yours are so-called. sources from apostates among police and organised crime. You want to go further with those now, explain how you have nothing to do with what's going on. Let it be your choice, as your choice of gentlemen has been and everything else you've done, which is what you're trying to wash yourself from, but just because we don't need anything, don't pretend to be any victims. Neither did anyone call for anything to happen to you, nor did anyone threaten you. What is truly said I can indeed repeat and understand about it that there is no further falsification, and that it is clear what we have said, which we are still standing behind. Aleksandar Martinovic said – we send a clear message to both the local and foreign public that we will all who put ourselves in that bag to hit the bag most strongly until we tear it apart, so that we will expose them, shake them until they tear up the bag, until everyone out of it falls, and until they are seen black on the white who they are, what they are around them, so that every face we see is known to them, just so that every name is not naive, that they are not faked, that there is no pretending. You put yourself there. Well done. Your right. And that you choose society and choose goals in life, even targets if you want to. To draw targets on someone is not very good. You claim to have come to that knowledge, but you've decided it, no one's forced you to do it, no one's forced you to do it, you chose it yourself. It's our right to expose them like that, to tear up that bag of theirs, to make it nice for everyone together to fall out of it. It's a good thing they call themselves. It's a good thing they're already out. It means that what we're doing makes sense, and it already has some effect. But what seems to be essentially the biggest problem in the words spoken here yesterday, is the message of Alexander Martinovic who said - I am speaking on behalf of the entire parliamentary group, to be heard by both the domestic and international public, we will not allow anyone to endanger the security of the Republic of Serbia, or any of its citizens, therefore any citizen, that includes you who are faking and pretending to be threatened. No, I don't. Protecting the state, protecting Serbia, we protect you, as well as everyone else, and especially Alexander Vukic, who is black on the white main target in everything that's going on these days. If you expect from people who belong to a parliamentary group named Alexander Vukic, from people who belong to the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For our children", to do something different than what Aleksandar Martinović told you, your expectations are completely unrealistic. If we wanted to do something else, we wouldn't be in the party we belong to, or on the election list led by Alexander Vukic, nor would we be sitting in a parliamentary group bearing his name. If we were different, we wouldn't be us, we would be you, but then there would be nothing left of Serbia. If something is our task, it is to preserve the earth, its people, and the future for its children, so let it bother you as much as it pleases. There is no more important task for us than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3964	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3965	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear citizens, the Agency is, and I will say, not because it has not been heard, but because of everything I say below, an independent legal entity and is independent of the executive authority in the performance of its affairs, as well as from other state bodies and organisations, legal and natural persons dealing with energy activities. Yesterday we also had a chance to talk to Mr. Kopech on the Committee on Economic Affairs. If I were to deal with the report that you filed, my colleagues really spoke exhaustingly about it, and there are no major problems. What I will look back on, which is right, Mr. President, above all, is the fact that you are closely co-operating as the Agency and you have a observed role in the work of the institutions of the Energy Community, which is established by the international organisation by signing the Energy Community Treaty in 2005 in Athens. It aimed to expand the European Union's internal energy market to the Southeast Europe region and the Black Sea region. What's the big deal? We have also received their report, which I will also deal with, above all, because we are truly determined that for long-term energy stability it is important to adapt our country's energy area to the European Union's global demands. However, the double arches spoken of by the president of the Assembly should be discussed during this debate, particularly with the position of having certain recommendations that have been addressed to us and which seem a little commanding. I spoke to the Committee on Economy yesterday about that if you are independent of the state of Serbia you should be independent and have that relationship with you by the European Energy Union as well. Why am I saying this? These remarks we had on the subject of "Srbigas" and which in the separation of "Transgas", I was also preparing for yesterday's Committee and for today's session I would like to talk about for the sake of the public of Serbia, and you would correct me if I were to make a mistake, which is that the Public Enterprise "Srbigas", which is a vertically integrated energy company, started the process of detachment of energy activities and the first step was to single out "Transportgas Serbia" from the Public Enterprise "Serbia" and it started with work on 1 October 2019. At the moment, the company Transportgas Serbia is working hastily to question how the transport system operator is organised, in accordance with the Energy Act, so that the Public Enterprise "Serbia" and "Transportgas" have chosen independent operating system models as a way of organising the company. Accordingly, ownership of the property remains in the Public Enterprise "Srbigas", while the appointment of the managing authority will not be in the jurisdiction of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas". Now here I have a whole definition of what the steps are that should precede everything that is required. Among other things, it is said that the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" via the Ministry of Finance has applied for assistance in preparations for opening the market through the IPA 2019-2020 programme. They've actually applied for aid in the purchase of capacity rental software, which in practice means opening the market, and that's a key observation that we seem to be able to read in this report. Although the proposal was initially considered positive, it ended up getting a negative answer. I'll spend a lot of time, and the impatience is growing, the fatigue has arrived, and I can see that attention is falling, but it's important to say, or maybe it's irrelevant to say... Maybe it's not important for you to say and maybe you feel like I'm talking about any of us personally. No, I'm talking about injustice. I'm going to go over to make you less sensitive, and I'm going to stop talking about "Serbiagas", I'm talking about a public enterprise, and I'm talking about no one personally, so I'm going back to what's wrong with KOST and EMS, because for them, the ESM is not sufficiently separate from the EPS, but that's why KOST is completely relaxed to get a license to work, although there's nothing from property. That's what I was even asking yesterday for Mr. Digger to help me and figure out on the basis of which they determined that the property was created, so if you want to at the time of the SFRY, it was suddenly transferred to KOST without any evidence. But I will also tell you that Serbia is being sued precisely because KOST accuses of disrespecting Article 6. Regulation (EU) No 1228/2003, i.e. that the revenues resulting from the location of capacity on interconnectors with Albania, Northern Macedonia and Montenegro are not used for one or more purposes of the prescribed Articles 6. Regulations. The case was launched in 2017. If someone thinks it doesn't matter that we're running cases, I think it's very important. But more importantly, what Mr. Arsic said yesterday, as chairman of the board, is that when we are asked to implement everything that is their request, and that a good part of it has not implemented a number of members of the European Union, then it is important to say that we must stress these dual arches in order to preserve, above all, national integrity. You know, we may be in a phase where we can't defend Obilić today, who used and exploited him years ago, because he took him in because the answer is from them -- well, you know, that's where he is. I don't think you got anything else to answer in the Agency, or whoever asked the question. Reasons or papers that it's their property simply doesn't exist. As long as it's 18 hours now, I'm saying this completely consciously, if not for someone to listen to me, then because it would be written down, and maybe one day, and all the people who had double arches, with the ambition to make something impossible, remember that they often don't even say thank you. Why? Confirmation that they can change politics today is in "News". A certain lawyer from Kosovo and Metohija, Tom Gashi, accused European representative Dick Marty of being unauthorized, and will sue him, allowing him to stay on the property, secretly, in a masked car, deceived the Council of Europe with his report on the killings and trade in organs and deceived Kosovo institutions that voted to form the Special Court. He's talking about the possession of the Yellow House. In this, the difference between us who do not have the patience to hear what our problems are, which we do not have the patience to realize that Serbia's leadership, primarily with the president, suffers serious pressures to meet requirements that are neither civilized nor civilised, and at least, by the laws of the Serbian state, that we are willing even to change the laws and bring them into line with the EU, but even that doesn't help us to be respected, even in the part in which we have a good will without reason to have it as a way of communication at all. That's why it was important to say everything I tried to say. I'd be glad if Mr. Dejan Popovic could deny any of the sentences I cited, and I've listed only one piece in 8.5 minutes for which you haven't had patience. I note, there are 40 minutes left for the SPS, the parliamentary group. It could've used anything. This wasn't just a commercial, these are the problems of all of us, gentlemen. So, I would be pleased if we once realized that here we sometimes speak not as party representatives, but as MPs of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia who are obliged to, above all, speak for the improvement of Serbia, not for any of us individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-11-0.u3966	Thank you. I just have to say that the SPS delegation... Please listen to me, because I don't want to repeat it 100 times. The session is under way and therefore we have extended the work after 18 hours. There's no anxiety. Secondly, as far as the SPS is concerned, the delegation was in Pogorevc to mark the anniversary of Slobodan Milosevic's death, which is why they did not speak at the beginning of today's debate. On the third hand, I just want to tell you that we all need to understand the depth of what we're talking about. Are we even listening here or just clapping when the end comes? The topics we're running here are vital national and national. That's why I drew your attention a little while ago, it's not vital that this issue here is now all that's written in this report by the Energy Agency, but it's vitally important something our country faces and what the President of the Republic is talking about every day, and that's the question of the double arches we're facing. It was also the reason why I mentioned this question, because I personally witnessed that the South Stream couldn't get an exception from the third, as it is said, the third package or which package, and that the North Stream could get an exception. For what? Because with Russia, they can have connections, but we can't have relationships. Also, we need to be of state interest, we are not conducting reforms to please someone else, but to have strong companies that will be able to carry on industrial development. Who will finance Serbia's industrialisation, gasification? Who will finance renewable energy sources, but strong state-owned enterprises? In that sense, I think it's useful to talk about this. So I want to ask if any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups, no matter what time we've been through, is there anyone who hasn't used it, who wants to say anything else? If not, do they want to say anything? If not, then pursuant to Article 98(4). I'm closing my rules of procedure for a unique search. I thank the representatives of the Energy Agency. We're moving on with our work. According to Article 87(5), Rules of Procedure, I order Thursday 11th March 2021 with a start at 18pm and 20 minutes, we can vote immediately, as the Day of Vote on agenda items of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. As you know, according to Article 88(5). The Rules of Procedure of the Quorum for the work of the National Assembly in Election Day exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 171 MPs are present in the hall at this time, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Since we are now moving to a decision on proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, (points 1 and 2 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the 1995 Convention on the Trade of Cereals, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 172 for – 171, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Second act. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the state of Palestine in the area of security co-operation, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 173, for – 172, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Third item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly exercises most of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of a president, deputy president and members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 173, for – 171, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate the President, Vice-President and members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services on your behalf and on my own behalf and wish them success in their work. Fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a candidate to elect members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act, the Council of the Agency makes up five members, and that members of the Greater Agency, the National Assembly, chooses most of the votes of all MPs. Also, before moving to a decision, I remind you that the minister of justice, as an authorised promoter, has withdrawn a proposal for candidate Dejan Milic. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. As you know, we will vote individually. I am voting on the proposal to elect Krsman Ilic, deputy prosecutor of appeal in Belgrade retired as a member of the Agency's Council. I am stopping the vote: total – 172 for – 15, did not vote – 157. I am voting on the proposal to elect Stevo Bajic, an independent adviser at the Corruption Prevention Agency, as a member of the Agency. I am stopping the vote: total – 172 for – 167 did not vote – six. I am voting on the proposal to elect Danica Marinkovic, judge of the Kragujevac Court of Appeal, retired as a member of the Agency's Council. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 171, did not vote – two. I'm putting the motion to be a member of the Agency's council to choose a doc. Dr Milos Stankovic, professor of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 172, did not vote – one. I am voting on the proposal to elect Biljana Pavlovic, head of the Chamber of the Commission for the Protection of Competition and Head of the Protocol in the Commission for the Protection of Competition, as a member of the Agency. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 170, did not vote – three. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ivan Djokovic, a graduate lawyer from Novi Sad, as a member of the Agency's Council. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – five, did not vote – 168. I am voting on the proposal to elect Verka Atanaskovic, assistant director of the Anti-Corruption Agency as a member of the Agency. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – one, against – one, did not vote – 171. I am voting on a proposal to elect Tamara Misic, assistant director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, as a member of the Agency. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 171, did not vote – two. I am voting on the proposal to elect Goran Gajic, an adviser for congregation affairs in the Office of the City of Novi Sad Assembly as a member of the Agency. I stop voting: total – 173, for – zero, against – zero, abstention – one, did not vote – 172. Ten. I am voting on a proposal to elect Maja Petrovic, assistant director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, as a member of the Agency. I am stopping the vote: a total of -173, did not vote – 173. 11. I am voting on a proposal to elect Velimir Matkovic, a lawyer in Belgrade as a member of the Agency's Council. I am stopping the vote: a total of -173, did not vote – 173. 12. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dragana Petkovic, senior advisor in the Standard Affairs Sector of the Professional Service of the Citizens' Protectors, as a member of the Agency. I am stopping the vote: a total of -173, for – two, did not vote – 171. 13. I am voting on the proposal to elect Zagorka Kolovic, Judge of the Court of Appeal in Retirement, as a member of the Agency's Council. I am stopping the vote: a total of -173, did not vote – 173. 14. I am voting on the proposal to elect Radmila Lemajic Kišgeci, Secretary of Medical School "7. April” in Novi Sad. I am stopping the vote: a total of -173, did not vote – 173. 15. I'm voting on a proposal to elect Sasa Doshen, a lawyer in Novi Sad as a member of the Agency. I am stopping the vote: a total of -173, did not vote – 173. 16. I am voting on the proposal to elect Bratislav Stankovic, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs as a member of the Agency. I am stopping the vote: a total of -173, did not vote – 173. 17. I am voting on a proposal to elect Danja Matkovic, a lawyer in Belgrade as a member of the Agency's Council. I am stopping the vote: a total of -173, for – two, abstention – one, did not vote – 170. 18. I am voting on a proposal to elect Dragic Radovanovic, a lawyer in Belgrade as a member of the Agency's Council. I am stopping the vote: a total of -173, did not vote – 173. I find that the National Assembly chose the majority of the votes of all MPs for members of the Major Anti-Corruption Agency: Steve Bajic, Danica Marinkovic, doc. Dr Milos Stankovic, Biljana Pavlovic and Tamara Misic. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency in the election and wish them success in their work. The fifth item of the agenda – Report on the work of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 (No 02-699/20) of 1 June 2020, with the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy of 19 February 2021, I am putting to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the annual report on the work of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, which was submitted by the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy on 19 February 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 168, did not vote – five. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a conclusion by majority. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Session. I just want to remind you that next session is scheduled for Tuesday, March 16th, that the main point will be the draft climate change law and the proposal for a decision on the Official Statistics Programme between 2021 and 2025. I thank you all.
