ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4453	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I will ask a question and remind all of our citizens for some period in 2000, where by that year 2000 there was a large number of companies that were active, working, etc. Social enterprises. After the DOS arrived, a large number of these companies began to fail, started to destroy these companies, passed laws that were at the expense of workers, and for the benefit of individuals, where a large number of these companies went bankrupt, a large number of workers lost their jobs, and these people are already in late years, not to say in the years when it was most difficult for them. I can remind everyone that a large number of such companies have been shut down, shut down, taken into bankruptcy, and in the municipality from which I come, Svrlig, and this applies to surrounding municipalities, cities, for the city of Nis, the “Electron Industry” and a large number of such companies. Such companies had our friends and fellow citizens in Prepolje, Tutina, Sjenica, Subotica, Novi Sad, where all privatisations were done to harm workers. After that, the workers had the right to sue, to exercise their rights in court, where they received judgments in their favour. They had judicial convictions to pay them a certain fee for the period when they were at the firm and their earnings were not paid. Their labour price that the court ruled was going from several hundred thousand to more, but to this day these workers failed to collect their claims, for the reason that the bankruptcy manager calmed down his needs first, and then they were workers in the second row and very few of them achieved their rights and received some funds from that company. Otherwise, by rulings, that social property was an obligation of the state, so that the state had taken the obligation to pay back the backlogs or compensation to workers. Most of the funds have not been paid and these judicial verdicts are now being held by our workers who are in a very difficult financial situation. I ask the competent ministry and the Prime Minister – is there any possibility that these claims, and the judicial verdicts they have by our courts, might find a way to make it up to them through help with the collection of electricity, technical things, water and all that they have to pay for? I wish we could do that, try to save a large number of people who are now in their late years, 50, 60, are not retired, and they need to pay for the electricity and other things that are very important to them. Once again, I think the privatisation was very bad, that the bankruptcy managers were working on the damages of the workers and the companies they ran, but now it would take us to find opportunities for these employees' debts, that their rightful solutions could be charged, at least in part to "beat themselves," as we say in our area, with debts for electricity, water or for what they need. I think that's the need for all of us. We have a large number of people who have had certain gatherings in Nis, at my place in Srelig, and I would like to, if we could answer this question and find a way and a solution, at least a part of that debt to be recognised through the relaxation of the costs of electricity and basic living needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4454	Thank you. The word is Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4455	Thank you, Chairman. I ask my question to the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and it concerns energy efficiency. In fact, recently Minister Zorana Mihajlovic announced subsidies, i.e. help citizens to replace windows and isolate housing through the Energy Efficiency Fund. Getting ready for this issue, I came up with the fact that Serbia is spending as much as five times as much energy in households as the EU average, that 40% of household energy is being lost because housing and houses are badly isolated and because we have old and exhausted windows. This is the amount of energy equal to the production of a thermal power plant. I'm sure most citizens are interested in this kind of help, because by losing and throwing energy, you're losing money. I'll make an example of New Belgrade. It's the community I live in. My neighbors enjoyed this news, but they don't have enough information. Most of the residential buildings and soloists in New Belgrade were built during Tito, in the second half of the last century, during mass construction, when the goal was to make as many people move into apartments as possible. The whole of New Belgrade was then built out of concrete and without isolation. Those buildings are still in the same condition today. Although the radiators are warm, the apartments are cold or you need a lot of energy to warm them up. That's not just the case with New Belgrade. In other parts of Belgrade, in all other cities in Serbia, but also in rural households, there is no adequate or frequent isolation. It's estimated to be even 70% of objects. If the correct information to improve energy efficiency is 50%, i.e. for citizens to pay only half the cost, then it is a great motive and incentive, and the benefit would be multiple, especially economically, because it would save huge amounts of energy that we are now throwing out of the window, then social because citizens would feel both more comfortable and less comfortable and pay less for spent energy and what the world is increasingly paying attention to is the environment, the production of energy that most of us get from coal would be reduced, and thus we would reduce pollution. My question is, when will this fund work, or when will the citizens be able to compete for the funds, will it be at the level of state or local self-government, and what will they need from the documentation? Will they be dealing with a special programme for the socially endangered population so that they can replace windows and isolate their housing? In what way will the citizens be familiar with these possibilities and where will they be able to get the necessary instructions, as well as to apply for subsidies? What will be the procedure so that a single solitary or residential building can enter the isolation program? In the end, how many years can Serbia reach a satisfactory level of energy efficiency, i.e. that the loss of energy reduces to less than 10%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4456	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4457	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a question that I would like to address today on behalf of the SPS Group more about the appeal, but of course we will ask it questions, trying not to violate the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia above all. At a time when Serbia and the whole world face the biggest health challenge, which unfortunately has not yet come to an end, we are not aware that in no country in the world there are political options from the ranks of the opposition that are currently competing with their presidents, or the presidents of the states and their governments, trying to interpret the coronary virus in their own way to reach cheap political points. The politicization of the crown in our opinion at this point was supposed to be located where it belongs, and it's quarantined. There will be time for us to compete politically, to conduct political dialogue. There will be parliamentary and presidential and city elections very soon, and by then we should actually have only one common goal and one common task that we all have to accomplish together, which is to preserve the health of our people and to preserve the life of every citizen of Serbia, because that is something concerning, above all, Serbia's future. It is definitely part of a political option that does not understand and will never realize that there are moments, like this one that has been going on since March of the month, when Serbia is the most needed solidarity and unity because Serbia has always been as strong as it is unique. It is inconceivable, Mr. President, and very dangerous that ideas of unverified foreign vaccines are spreading at this time, as some say, call the opposition leaders. There's the same antivaccinal air-water propaganda and others among other things, claiming there's no vaccine against the crown, nor will there be. Some of the beginnings of the coronary pandemic of the virus are irresponsible and dangerous statements such as those that everything related to the crown is bloated, that there is a circus for no reason, and that mortality is nothing less than common flu and that people have no reason to be afraid and wear masks and gloves. I'm deliberately speaking because at this point in time, keeping in mind this topic is not worth mentioning names and last names. For this reason, first of all, we want to appeal to the citizens of Serbia to behave responsibly, rationally, disciplinedly, and to respect first and foremost the recommendations and advice of the profession because they will thus preserve themselves, their families, thus protecting others and injecting themselves. Serbia is the only country in Europe that has all four vaccines and is the first in Europe to be re-vaccinated to millions of people and we are fully convinced and we believe that this number will be even greater, but we definitely need to do something more to increase the number of vaccinated and re-vaccinated citizens. Who knows which way to answer the questions, but first of all for the sake of the public, we ask the question – how safe are the vaccines and how many citizens have been vaccinated and revaccinated so far? Since we know that the answer will be confirmed, that vaccines are safe and vaccines are safe, another appeal is for citizens to be vaccinated, because, as I said, it is the only way to preserve themselves and their families and everything else and this is, I repeat, a question concerning the future of Serbia, a question concerning the future of each citizen of Serbia. At the end of the third appeal. I will remind of what the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic was talking about right before the constitution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, forming certain ministries with a clear goal to realise those ministries, when he warned that the very high growth of some right-wing organisations and political actors representing anti-vaxer, anti-migrant attitudes, as well as the attitudes that the country had a flat panel and clearly defined the objectives and tasks of those ministries. Our appeal is precisely to these ministries, not wanting to reduce the importance, the right of anyone, respecting the Constitution above all, but instead of conducting dialogue on the topic of the same-sex communities, because in our view today this is not a key issue in Serbia, and don't just hear it as a reason that it is harmonisation with EU legislation. We show determination and determination to become a full member of the EU, but many things we do and work in Serbia precisely because of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, not because of the EU. Instead of these kinds of debates, our appeal is, because we believe that through such a debate we do not need such a kind of division in Serbia at the moment, and definitely this kind of division exists and even greater divisions are announced, it is necessary to bring dialogue on how important it is to take seriously the advice and recommendations of the profession when it comes to vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4458	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4459	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have several parliamentary questions, and they are all addressed to the Ministry of Finance, the IRS, the IRS and the Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Namely, is Dragan Gilas connected through a certain Pascal Schmidt to as many as 34 companies in Switzerland? This question stems from a search of Swiss business portals where it can be seen that Pascal Schmidt is a signer or an authorized person in 34 companies. Look out, there's a member of the board of directors, somewhere as a member of the board of directors, somewhere partner, somewhere manager, etc., and one of them is Gilas's firm. It is also symptomatic that it is the company in which the signatories are just Dragan Gilas and this Pascal Schmidt, which is registered in Switzerland, in the city of Cug which is otherwise considered the largest tax haven, so to speak, in Switzerland and is called "Multickom Open AG". At least that's what she called herself until December 28th last year when she changed her name to "Open International AG". The very change of name suggests that Gilas’ intention was actually to cover the trail. If, in addition to this suspicious change in company name, we add the fact that the company is even recapitalised three times and that there are now over 620,000 euros in the account, then the question is whether money laundering or trying to avoid paying taxes or both? The second issue concerns the suspicious business of Askanius Ltd, also behind which Dragan Gilas is standing and checking the company's accounts in Mauritius, and which found that there are 5,741.025 euros. So I'm also asking if the capital gains tax is paid, is the dividend tax paid, are the other taxes and all other legal obligations paid in that regard? And if we add this to the discovery that Gilas has an account in Hong Kong, so 3.3m euros in Bank of China Ltd, and where Dragan Gilas and this Pascal Schmidt faces are again authorized, mentioned earlier, although we know that there are indications that there are dozens of more countries with dozens of accounts, then it is seen from the beginning that money was to be drawn from the country, to be scattered around the world, to settle in various accounts, and to cloudy and dubious transactions are clouded by traces of that money. With that in mind, I'm asking if the Department of Money Laundering will start investigating, when it comes to these accounts. So will there be a temporary blocking of these funds, the end of the proceedings, and will if it is proven unlawfully acquired, these funds be permanently seized? Why is this important? Why is this so important? Because this is an ideal opportunity to spread the public, but all Serbian citizens also get a complete picture of the situation of robbery and theft and how many yellow tycoons, so both Gilas and Solak and everyone else have taken money out of the country together and placed it in various accounts abroad. Also, I expect the investigation to answer other important questions, which is the primary question of whose money is it? Whose money is that? So, where did you get that kind of money in those accounts, how did you get it, how did you get it, did you get it out of the country while you were doing all kinds of state functions, mayor, minister in government and everything? And finally, why are you avoiding a polygraph? What are you so afraid of if you have nothing to hide to avoid a polygraph? And the answers obviously won't get from him. Instead of responding, attacks on journalists are coming in, attacks on Alexander Vukic are coming in on us from the SNS, and I guess he thinks that these attacks and the launch and creation of various, call the affair, factory affairs through his and the School media, and these are the media that Gilas simply easily write off the debt, gifts, practically 440 million dinars, and that's your new affair, the chairman. I don't have time to talk about it right now, but today's list explains everything. So, the funniest of all is the announcement by Dragan Djilas that he will file or have filed already some charges against Alexander Vukic, against Sinisha Mali, against Vladka Malovic, against several journalists. So, you can file hundreds and thousands of applications against all of us in SNS as many of us as there are, but that won't stop us from telling the citizens the truth about all your thieving and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4460	Thank you. Since none of the representatives, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by Ac Petrovic and Đuro Peric. We continue to work and move on to the Joint Single Search on the motions for decisions set out in points 3 and 4 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the meetings are invited to attend Milan Marinović - Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, Ivan Jovičić - Election Member of the High Council of the Judges, Natasa Djelic – Head of the Department for Status Affairs Judges and Rada Kovacevic – Counsellor of the Trustee. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Articles 192, paragraphs 3 and 201, and in accordance with Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the motion for a decision on the selection of the Deputy Commissioner for Public Information for the Protection of Personality Data and the Proposal for a decision on the choice of a judge to be elected for the first time in office. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Mr. Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4461	Thank you. The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, every time I get a chance to speak to you people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, I get a sense of honor and exceptional satisfaction, but also great responsibilities. I must, however, begin to express my double gratitude. First, by putting this point on the agenda of the session within a very short period of time following the receipt of my proposal, which has shown that you have fully understood the importance of selecting the Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data. Secondly, you invited me to participate in today's session and thus allowed me to address you on this matter. Why did I even propose to choose my deputy? In fact, both the laws under which the Trustee is acting, the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, each individual states that the Trustee has one substitute for each of those areas. However, in reality, since March 2017, when the previous deputy for this area expired, there has been no deputy for protection of personal data. Moreover, since April 2020, the Commissioner has not had a deputy for free access to information of public importance since the former deputy then also expired. Practically, almost a year ago, the Trustee and his service function without any of the two possible deputies. At first, especially during the duration of the emergency, when the work was naturally reduced, the absence of deputies as a problem in function was not expressed to such a large extent. However, with an end to the state of emergency, which led to an increase in the number of cases in work, especially with the extension of this situation, so-called. The new normality, which I would call a new abnormality, caused by the Covid 19 pandemic, I realized that no one was untouchable and that it could easily have happened that the work of the trustee's service was blocked as a result of my long absence due to the illness or stay in isolation and that it would have been not only unserious, but also unspeakable on my part, I would not have put aside the election of at least one deputy as soon as possible after the constitution of the new National Assembly. As I am very grateful to the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Minister Maria Obradovic, very active work on making amendments to the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Importantness and is expected to result in very significant changes in the existing law, which will inevitably lead to changes in the work of the Trustee and his service on the one hand, and on the other hand, the new Personal Data Protection Act has been in place since August 2019 and has brought significant new competences to the Commissioner and subsequently increased the scope of the work, which requires a completely different organisation of work in the field of protection of personal data protection, I decided that it would be more important and consistent to propose a replacement for the area of protection of personal data. When that is the case, it is justified to ask the question – why exactly the proposed candidate, i.e. candidate Sanja Unkovic. The answer is very simple for me for one reason only, which is that at this point Sanja Unkovic is the most convincing possible candidate for that function. The reasons for this are already much more numerous. First, the area of protection of personal data, especially under the new Personal Data Protection Act, which applies only a little more than 19 months, is except that it deals with the protection of one of the fundamental human rights, whose protection is guaranteed in the Constitution and very complex and requires a narrow, professional, specialised knowledge which, unfortunately, at this time in the Republic of Serbia does not have a large and even sufficient number of citizens. Just as an example of the confirmation, I am stating that by now out of tens of thousands of data handlers and data processors, in the Republic of Serbia, all over 3,200 have appointed a person to protect the personal data, and of these formally defined persons, a good part of them does not have an adequate professional qualification in order to be able to carry out this very demanding duty in a satisfactory manner. However, the trustee's service has high-quality people, top experts in this area, and one of them is exactly my candidate for deputy Deputy Sanja Unkovic. In addition to her expertise, the following points are given to the fact that she has been working in the Service of the Trustee since February 2011, that she has been acting exclusively for more than 10 years in the area of protection of personal data for which I have proposed to be a deputy. That she had been carrying out responsible inspection tasks all along, as a person authorized for inspection supervision, and even had the highest number of controls carried out. That he's an authorised lecturer for the field of protection of personal data. This and many other things that are not mentioned, due to limited exposure time, are best spoken about by an experienced professional and an expert in the field of protection of personal data. Furthermore, on the basis of the fact that she has been working for over 10 years in the Service of the Trustee, the following can be easily concluded, that they are very well aware of the organisation of work and way of functioning of the Trustee's service and that she knows especially well the employees of the Service, which is of great importance for the quality of the function of the Deputy Commissioner, because she will not need to spend a certain amount of time to meet the employees and the way in which the authorities function. I must especially point out here that she is the best, but certainly not the only example that shows and proves that there are a lot of professional and quality people in the service of the Trustee, which I have convinced myself of shortly after acting as the Commissioner. For this reason, I am particularly pleased to be able to propose to my deputy candidates precisely from the service staff's order, in the deep belief that the trustee's service has the highest quality personnel in both the protection of personal data and in the area of free access information of public importance. In addition to this, but as equally important, and perhaps most importantly, I must point out that in this case it is a person who is adorned by exceptional human traits, a very intelligent person with a expressed sense of communication, a person with good ideas and a sense of innovation, a person who is cooperative, a person who is quite experienced, and yet young enough to possess the driving energy and positive ambition that is necessary to help us greatly to improve the work of the trustee, as an independent state body and in the greater visibility of the Trustee and his service in the public, which, unfortunately, not after more than 15 years of the existence of the Trustee as an independent state body, has yet been achieved to a necessary extent. In the end, it is a person who, which is particularly important to me, fully shares my vision of the development of the trustee service in the future. I also believe that it is not negligible that it is a woman, considering that 71 women and 30 men work in the service of the Commissioner, so that it would not be correct, nor appropriate, nor in accordance with the declared principle of gender equality that the trustee and the deputy would be the same sex. Finally, for the sake of all this, I hope that, as long as this has allowed me time, I have suggested that I have proposed the best candidates for my personal data protection deputy who has all the necessary qualifications for the successful performance of this responsible and very significant function, and I ask that just as your Committee on Culture and Information has done, which I would like to thank them specifically for, support and accept my proposal and Sanja Unkovic choose as Deputy Commissioner for Information from Public Meaning and Data Protection for Personality Protection. After all, allow me, I hope even the chairman won't mind, that you won't mind me taking the opportunity to address you and the occasion, or let me say the following. As I am aware that on the agenda of the National Assembly session, scheduled for 30 March of this year, a point relating to the amendments to the Law on Judges, proposed by the four MPs of the ruling coalition, and because of the fact that, before I became a Commissioner, as president of the Association of Judges of Criminal Judges of the Republic of Serbia and as President of the Greatest Infringement Court of Justice in Belgrade, I have been intensively dealing with this issue, I urge you to support your colleagues' proposal that the position of the judges of the other judges of the General and Special Jurisdiction be leveled, which has also been set out as a target of national reform strategy and justice for the period from 2013 to 2018, but unfortunately has not yet been achieved. In this way, without exaggeration, you will enter history as a congregational cry that has removed an injustice that has lasted for 12 years. Thank you for your attention. I wish you successful work on the well-being of all Serbian citizens and to stay healthy.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4462	Thank you. As Mr. Marinovic said, that law will be on the agenda. I've already scheduled the next session for March 30th. It's a proposal from our fellow MPs where we asked, remember last time she was Minister of Justice, that I asked her to consider these questions. You know how, when someone, when this law is not proposed by the Government, but by MPs or some other authorised proposings, sometimes the representatives of the Government do not act responsibly on this issue and not consider whether it is really necessary or not. Thus, a positive opinion has come with certain amendments that are necessary and necessary to bring the various proposed amendments into line so that they do not conflict with each other. Generally speaking, we are going towards achieving this and this will be a practical 1 April vote. Thank you. Authorised Proposer, regarding the Judges, Ivan Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4463	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, you have before you a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the Court of Commerce in Zajecar. On the basis of Article 47. The Law on Judges The High Council of the judiciary in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and the daily "Politika" announced the choice of a judge for the Business Court in Zajecar. The expertise, competence and dignity of candidates for the Chamber of Commerce in Zajecar has been established by the High Council of the Court of Justice on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Judges, as well as by the Rules on the Programme and the way in which the examinations are to be assessed and the competence of the candidate for the judge to be first elected. On the basis of Article 13, indent 3 of the Law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and in relation to Article 51(1), The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary was held at a session held on 23 February 2021, established a motion for a decision to elect a judge and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the selection of one candidate by Ivana Dimitrijevic, a judicial assistant of the Chamber of Commerce in Zajecar, is proposed to elect a judge for the Privredni sud in Zajecar. I wouldn't burden you with the candidate's biographical data, because you certainly have them in your materials, so all I have left to do is ask you in the voting day to support a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4464	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want a word? Sandra Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4465	Thank you, National Assembly President. Dear guests, honourable MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information, I will briefly introduce you to the procedure that the Committee carried out in connection with the election of Sanja Unkovic as Deputy Commissioner. Namely, the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, Mr Milan Marinovic, submitted to the National Assembly on 2 March 2021 a proposal for a decision on the choice of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data on the area of protection of personal data. On the basis of Article 33. The law on free access and information of public importance and, in relation to Article 73, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Personal Data Protection Act, the Commissioner proposed to his deputy for the protection of personal data, as you heard from the promoter himself, Sanja Unkovic, a Belgrade graduate lawyer. The Committee on Culture and Information, as the committee responsible of the National Assembly, considered a proposal for a decision and established on the basis of the documentation submitted that Sanja Unkovic meets all legal requirements to be elected Deputy Commissioner. In addition, Mr. Marinovic, as a motioner of the decision, met the Committee members at a meeting, at a session of the Committee on Culture and Information with the reasons for which he proposed Ms. Unkovic to this function. In light of all the above, the Committee on Culture and Information has proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a decision on the selection of the Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and for the Protection of Personal Data, submitted by the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personal Data. I would also like to point out that in the follow-up to the Committee's session, Article 203, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure, held a public conversation with the proposed candidate for Deputy Commissioner, and in this part of the session, the MPs asked Ms. Unkovic questions, and I will speak more about it in the next part of the session as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I believe this is the right choice, and I hope that in the day to vote, that is, today, we will accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4466	Thank you. We move on, to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. Vice-President of the Assembly, MP Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4467	The Honorable President, the Honorable Commissioner with his associates, the Honorable Representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two very important topics ahead of us. First, the choice of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information, i.e. specifically for the protection of personal data. This institution, as we all know and believe that we agree, is one of the most important institutions in society, although newspapers for our society in recent years, but as with every institute that represents the newspaper, we have had a certain period of various experiments, habits and at the institute itself and at the institute itself. But beyond any doubt, the trustee institution is one important step towards achieving full freedom, but above all, with regard to the protection of man, his dignity, in terms of the protection of personal data, but also with regard to the availability of information of public importance. Now we already have a solid period in this sense, so we can determine a certain age or we can no longer get away with being beginners and having no experience. So it's already a serious experience, we've already had changes at the head of the institutions themselves. Here, now we have changes in the deputy positions, so there's already a solid experience and solid maturity. It certainly is not good that he had these breaks that took place in terms of important positions, i.e. the choice of people in important positions, especially the position of deputies is immediately after the Commissioner and it is not good that we have such a long time in the election. I'm glad the Assembly reacted this expediently. What makes me proud and happy is that I am also in the leadership of the Assembly and of the College, perhaps for the first time, we are in a position to go faster than both the Government and all those who should serve us with bill proposals, so that we often do more than society and the environment are expected of us. We will continue with this concept and it actually shows the quality of Parliament's work and leadership, as well as of all the MPs, or parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. Based on what we have received and what we have heard, it is obviously a quality candidate, and it certainly needs to be supported and certainly that the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, which I am currently presenting, will support this proposal and, in the day of the vote, give their voice to the proposed candidate. But certainly this is an opportunity to talk about both the candidate and the suggestions. However, it is also an opportunity to talk about the trustee institution itself, given this experience, given that the National Assembly is not only the highest legislative body, but also the highest supervisory authority in the entire state system. So, both the MPs and the meaning of their choice and the fact that they come from the entire country, not just one part of it, we are, in fact, some kind of monitoring mechanism and, in fact, some kind of vascular system, if I may say, the entire society and the state, which reaches through its capillaries to all its parts, to the periphery. So, we will certainly agree here, that any segment of society's development, whether it's economical, whether it's related to the legal system, whether it's about our topic today, that even development is ideal and ideas from which we're still quite far away and that the quality of certain services and quality of the system in the center, in the capital, in the capital, is stronger, better, and then as we're moving away from the center, or from the capital by these cyclic circles, which we still have more problems, we have even greater neglect. Again, on the other hand, it's by the logic of that vascular system in some way understandable, because it's not the same, so to speak, to throw justice and justice close and reach it there in the periphery itself, in every sense. What I want to draw attention to is full support to the trustee institution, but that support would have to be multifaceted. It should not only be at the rhetorical level of our MPs, or politicians, because even those who disagree with the existence of this institution dare not speak against it. What is deficientness and what needs particular attention is the question of whether we are consistent as a system, above all, with regard to competent authorities that should be direct support and direct service to the Trustee. I think we're still missing the improvement or the development of the state system and the state apparatus. I certainly have that and personal experience, because I always try to speak from the location of the secure data. If we go just by what we hear and what's unverified, I'm not sure we'll have good conclusions and it'll be useful to what we're doing here. Since the moment of 2012 when I was a candidate in the presidential elections then in this country, it was someone my first experience with the political activities of that kind, but I faced a problem of data protection. A few years after that, more than 10,000 of them, as required by the regulations to support their candidacy, had problems because someone from the local level of government from the opposite political camp, or someone whom I had broken some interests with, had called for personal or mobile phone numbers, threatening them in various ways because they had supported them with their signature, say, my candidacy. Similarly, there were other choices, where people had problems, came in, complained, asked for protection, and you were amazed at how this could happen to them. The key question is actually the unprotection of the data. It was then within the jurisdiction of the judicial authority in Novi Pazar, and later these powers were removed, but the fact is that these people are not protected, that we do not continue to have the effectiveness of the personal data protection system, in this case where data abuse is actually committed because someone has willingly exercised his right guaranteed by the Constitution and the law, that any political candidate, or political party or political election list, is entrusted with support by his signature. So that's one experience. The second experience that happens also in the city where I come from is the question of the availability of information of public importance. It happened to us, when it comes to the allocation of budget funds to the media in Novi Pazar, it is very serious funds, meaning funds that go over half a million euros, to make it clearer and more understandable, therefore, that the competitions that are being discussed for the allocation of these funds are being kept hidden, whether they are being published or unclear, on some non-essential portals, in fact, clearly seen from the way these competitions are announced, that the intention to hide them. Now, we had this case, in fact from Novi Pazar, I hope the Trustee is also in the course of the case, because he's been up for a very long time, that one of the players in the competition complained to the Trustee and that the information was inaccessible and that we had some kind of disqualification or the inability of a competitor to appear for these funds and to be treated equally. So, we had a procedure, the trustee reacted, it went on for years, and in some ways the trustee, if I may say, acted fairly, asked for it to be corrected, but that's where the stream is lost, we no longer have a continuation of the process. The competent authorities who should react that the corrections have not reacted further. The question here is now, this is a question to all of us MPs, this is a question to Parliament, a question to the government, a question to all institutions -- do we want the trustee for the sake of the trustees, that he exists, that we, in front of someone, which has always sounded very ugly to me when we come from the European Union, how we act like some bad students who need to fulfill some form, so now we need to have institutions that have this modern world and we try to formally draw them, build them, but it's just some form. We don't care if it works, whether it works, whether it plays a part. So this is about an institution that is very serious, which employs, as I understand it, about a hundred employees. So there's a huge part of the budget, it goes all the way back to the citizens, and it only makes sense if it really works, if that institution will have the support of the entire state system to perform its function and role. And what else is the point? To me, I don't want to use hard words, although they come into my language and I'm trying to avoid them, but it's very ugly for me to accept that kind of hypocrisis, to act like a bad student who needs to complete the form of a homework, it doesn't matter if a homework is prescribed or incorrect, it's important that, in front of the teacher we say, here, teacher, I wrote something. That's what it looks like to me. It's very ugly to me. To be honest, I am one of those politicians and those MPs who all that is good from the European Union and comes to us as a request and to support not because it is their request, but because it is good, but equally, and you will see it through some other and perhaps future discussions, I am equally willing to tell them – no, or – Neet, about what I disagree with or what I think is wrong, or what conflicts with my principles. In fact, we need to build such a relationship, so we have to fight for what we believe is right. Now, it comes from the European Union, so we are oriented towards the European Union, but for me, it's more important that I believe it's a good thing. Why? Because we can never succeed in what we don't believe is right. So it always produces hypocrisy. We'll always act hypocritically. I don't think there's room for that hypocrisis here. Whether this hypocrisis comes from what we think we don't need or it comes from those different forms of our sloppyness, disorder or something else, it's no longer important here, but it's important above all that from the constitutional and legal aspect we have the obligation to enable the functioning of the Trustee in full capacity, on the one hand, and on the other hand, which is the purpose of the existence of a Commissioner who will have an advisory character, who will be like some old grandfather who will smarten us or some wise man who will tell us what is good and without any mechanism to implement his decisions. It doesn't make any sense to me and it's too expensive for society and the state and for the citizens, if that's how we treat and behave. To take seriously the recommendations and views of the trustees are actually here in the case of the New Market what I'm talking about has proved to be. Not only is this not right, but it is continued for the next two years and this year you have, so that amount of money that is over half a million euros, almost maybe 600,000 euros, I don't have the data here now, is again divided into one brutally unfair, selfish and corrupt way. So again, a television station, co-owned by the mayor of Novi Pazar, has been allocated about 400,000 euros. All others are the one part that does not cross even 30% of all other media candidates, and others are still very close to the local government regime, which is employees of journalists, employees of the television with some projects, etc. So, what's the point, please, and how are we gonna do it in front of the citizens? What's the point of doing this job we're doing here anyway? Why do we exist here? Why are we spending so much money on citizens if we're playing with these things, if we're playing state, we're playing MPs, we're acting justice, we're acting justice, and there people are laughing at us, robbing our citizens' budgets? Please, I won't deal with it. I know when I get up to talk, so when I have to treat one topic for the sixth time, I feel ugly, and then I say to myself, should I repeat myself so that I can be boring and exhausting or be quiet and make it easier for those who rob the budget, citizens and act like this? I say no, no, I'll do it again. Yeah, it repeats itself to who? To bad disciples, to those who don't listen. I'm sorry, the idea of repeating is boring, but we're not going to stop because giving up would actually mean supporting teams that do that. So, we have to figure out a way, I don't have enough time again, as long as it seems like 20 minutes is a lot of time, to now consider ways of improvement, if we need legal improvement, so obviously we have some shortcomings, to allow the trustee to be effective and to have their decisions done by the end of the executive. There's only a few minutes left for the judge's election. I also believe that the candidate is someone who meets all conditions and our MPs will give him support. But again, when it comes to the judiciary and the subject of the judiciary, another one of those topics where we have to be bored trying to repeat, again in the same model, that we have the ends of the country and the parts of the judicial system in this country that have been affected by gangrene and that we cannot treat only as procedurally, when, behold, this issue comes to us to replace this judge or this president of the court. We need to find, all together, I know that neither the High Council of the Judiciary, nor the judiciary alone can solve these problems, but if you have a situation from the Senate that I have talked about here several times, that the head of the school is kidnapped, that three criminals kidnap him, that they keep him kidnapped for a few hours, that only one of them is processed, very mildly processed, these others also, that when the president of the municipality sets up this Security Council, the police commander says - don't, people, they've been friends, they've been hanging out, where the prosecutor says so too - don't, I wouldn't, I wouldn't go into it, where some third says - the situation is regular, so it happens. Hello, please, if we have this structure, if to kidnap anyone, in the end there's no difference whether a school director is kidnapped or any of the citizens kidnapped, kidnapping is an alarm, it's not just a matter of ordinary crime or ordinary violence, it's an alarm one, ever since it happens to the school director, what kind of message is it to children, what is that message to all citizens? What kind of message is that to our general security? You can always do that, it's not a problem. What can't happen is laziness or I'm sure I'm a certain streak with these criminals, people who have thus set themselves to diminish the importance of kidnapping itself. So it's gangrene, judicial gangrene, gangrene in the police, gangrene in the prosecution, in those areas where they're used to living by the rules of violence, where we have a clear streak of crime, police, politics at the local, the judiciary, the prosecution, etc. We are proud here that the Ministry of Police, or the state, is fighting so bravely against large and organized crime. Please, we can't underestimate that last little finger on our body, because if he gets sick, he can easily throw it to the heart. And not just that. That body is our obligation, completely, as they say, not a fingernail can hurt us to be healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4468	I thank my colleague Zukorlic. The speaker, Mr Milan Marinović, answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4469	Thank you. I have to answer, but in a positive way, on the discussion of Ambassador Zukorlic, because he shot the target. Now I'm going to say what, hopefully, I'll make him a little happy and put a smile on his face, after what I've said, and it's connected to what I said in my presentation, proposing to the candidate, when I said that the work on amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information is of public importance. I then expressed my gratitude to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and particularly Minister Marija Obradovic, because this work is quite intense, quite active. I can say that, as someone who is a member of the task force and who will give significant results. In fact, what you said is whether we just formally want a trustee or essentially one independent state body that protects two, one of the fundamental human rights in this case. Of course, I want to believe that we all want one such organ to stand in the protection of human rights when they are threatened. I am confident and I expect that the importance of the Commissioner, in terms of extending competence in the area of free access to information of public importance, since the Commissioner in the field of protection of personal data, has indeed broad powers and I do not say that the main authority that cares about it is in Serbia, but in accessing information is still not, to be increased by the upcoming amendments and additions to the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter. Especially what you pointed out first. I mentioned this in part also when I presented an annual report in this house on December 26th last year, and this is my proposal, which I am confident will pass and that, first of all, the working group, then the competent ministry and eventually the Assembly, will adopt, that the Commissioner will leave Belgrade, that the trustee will decentralisation. I suggested that the law in the organization of the work of the Commissioner be changed in relation to the organization of the work of the Trustees in this regard, that the trustee be given the legal authority and the possibility to educate the organisational units or offices, whatever they are called, outside of his seat. So across Serbia, depending on where it is possible. Anyway, I'm not giving up on that proposal, but I don't think there's any need anymore, because it's accepted. I can inform you that in this direction I have already held talks with the mayors, the mayor of Nis, the mayor of Kragujevac and the deputy mayor of Novi Sad and the deputy president of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and that everyone has given me the support to go into this story, to push it all the way. The task force has understood the importance, the ministry has understood the importance and I hope when this law is passed that we will be able to praise that we have left Belgrade and that we have achieved what Mr Zukorlic said, equally and formally, but the essential position of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in relation to those rights that protects the Trustee. That's the goal, and that's what we want to do. Here, I guarantee you we'll get through this and give you good results. Thank you for mentioning that the Commissioner reacted and how he reacted about the specific subject. I just want to express my gratitude to you once again because you said that all the authorities, in this case the Assembly, invited them to support the work of the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. We need your support over and thank you in advance for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4470	Replica, MP Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4471	I thank you, Your Honor, and for this reaction. Of course, sometimes these discussions of mine can leave the impression of some hopelessness or as if we can't make things right. No, on the contrary, if I didn't believe that all of this could be fixed and that we were actually on the road, hard and hard way, I wouldn't be investing this much energy in these discussions or doing that. You know, that we MPs are not obliged to discuss, and the discussion is only our right. I am trying to take this right to the end and I am actually convinced that most colleagues in the National Assembly want good, not only for this country but even for the institution itself, and that very often failures happen because of lack of information, due to lack of insight, because it is usually in the nature of a man to react if he is well with me, it is good for everyone. Then over the hill, as they say, full of hungry people don't believe. So I look forward to these reactions, these announcements, and certainly we will give full support to these ideas in the proposed future law that will be in front of us, especially impressed me with this idea that the Trustee, or the Trustee institution, has representatives throughout the country. In fact, it will be this systematic approach to all people, namely to facilitate citizens' access to insight to the ends in the entire country. There are these values, these things that we really need to be one side of, to overcome even some party and some particular interests, because these are the foundations on which to build a completely different and certainly better future for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4472	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS parliamentary group Dr Muamer Bačevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4473	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear friends, it is always an honor for us in the SDPS, and it is a special moment for us to strengthen the institutions of such institutions. I say that especially as president of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality. The interest of our party, which is a social democratic commitment, is primarily truth, justice, and the truth is not what many speakers here often express. For example, the mayor of Novi Pazar has no ownership in TV in Novi Pazar and you can check it at any time. Here, I'm asking you to check it out. The mayor of Novi Pazar was the owner and was part of the property when he was not the mayor as soon as he joined the mayor he retired from that position. The previous speaker knows very well, because he has already lost one court trial and should be compensated for making up for the lies to the mayor of Novi Pazar about three hundred thousand. There is another dispute that the previous speaker has not yet appeared but I am convinced and guarantees that this dispute will also be lost. So it's not at all questionable that we're looking for the truth, that we're looking for data, and that's a fundamental European right, and that's the right to strengthen our democracy, but we can't look for and make the truth as it suits us. For example, here we often refer to this TV in Novi Pazar, intransparency, and look at Prepolje for example. Here, try to find out how in the previous term in the municipality of Prepolje in which the group, i.e. the political party of the previous speaker, was sharing the money with the media? How come she was handing out money to them by close television, practically not telling his television that in general there's no broadcast and a signal that's from New Pazar and there's no signal in Prepolje? Is that justice and is that the availability of information we're talking about? So we absolutely support this institution, strengthening its capacity, but to be equal arches for everyone. The city of Novi Pazar, Mr. Commissioner, here's to tell you, was declared one of the most transparent cities in 2020. Practically, according to this transparency index, Vienna was the only one that was more transparent than the city of Novi Pazar. According to that index, for example, Becay is 83, and Novi Pazar has 82 points. So, absolutely what the current government is doing, in which the SPDS is the headquarters, is that it is trying to treat citizens' assets really correctly, and we can easily verify that. You check out our property cards, check out all the city's officials, and check out the others. So it's easy to come to the truth if that's the point. Mayor of Novi Pazar, I guarantee you, among the citizens of Novi Pazar compared to other mayors or municipal presidents, has the strongest support. That's why I'm sorely reacting when I can guarantee someone who's honest to try to give him something that's not true and something that shouldn't be done. I especially find it unacceptable that you talk about the city where you decided to live and who took you in and where you are an important factor from day to day in every place in the worst possible way. It's a kind of political struggle for you. So that kind of thing is unacceptable. Just now, the previous speaker has injured one of the information on the protection of a person, an unverified, untrue thing, amputating one man who, by the case of the mayor in Novi Pazar. And that's something that's unacceptable. But to return to what is really our goal and our message, which is that the SDP is really trying in every place to promote political correctness and strengthen all the institutions of this country that are, I say, European tradition and European law. There are a number of reasons for strengthening the capacity of this institution. The issue of why personality information is one of the most important issues in EU accession is the topic. You know, the negotiating chapters and 23 and 24, these are the most important chapters, you all know that they are the first to open, the last to close, that people in the EU are the most sensitive and that we should be personally the most sensitive, because the protection of individuals, its human rights, minority rights is indeed imperative. This is what we do well in this country, because, you well know, we also have a quality Action Plan for Chapter 23, which was revised in July 2020, which envisioned strengthening the capacity of the Trustees. In Serbia, a new Personal Data Protection Act was adopted, a reminder, as early as November 2018, with a delayed application of nine months, began in August 2019. This introduced Serbia into its legal system a high degree of protection of personal data within the EU within a very short period of time since the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation in May 2019. This law enlarges the Corps of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, but thus gives the Commissioner new responsibilities and responsibilities. First of all, he has the role of supervisory authority to control the implementation of this law. Of course, we need to strengthen these institutions, but we know what parliamentary democracy is, it is known that in parliamentary republican systems parliament should play a decisive role and the most important control in this country should be this parliament, and the MPs sitting in it who should oversee the laws and their integrity and authority to strengthen both parliament and this state. Of course, you are, as an institution, subordinate, or you represent your own, perhaps a poor term is subordinated, but we are your main body, or, let me say, the tools and we are in one joint action and on a common path. But I repeat once again, that we are interested in strengthening your capacities and, as far as we seem, we do today. What we can see in the Report of the Trustee comes from the very Law on the Protection of Personality Data, is that there is a need for harmonisation and other specific laws relating to the processing of personality data with the new law. On this basis, we can be expected to extend the authority of the Commissioner, which we all support. There is also a part of the trustee's jurisdiction introduced by the Law on the determination of the status of newborn children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia. This is a very important topic for us. This law provides that the Commission for the collection of facts on the status of newborn children suspected of missing from maternity care may process personality data only after the consent of the Trustee. This clearly stems from the need to strengthen the capacity of the Trustee, which would contribute to efficiency in improving the organisation of the work of the Trustee institution, particularly in overseeing the application of the Personal Data Protection Act. For the National Assembly, supervision of law enforcement is an important and key issue. That's what I've been talking about, because the laws and we pass to ensure that their effective application and to a greater extent the enjoyment of the fundamental human rights of our citizens are enjoyed. When it comes to the Law itself on the Protection of Personal Data, it is clear that this law introduces a series of newspapers and obligations, both for economic operators and for state authorities, when it comes to the collection and processing of personal data. I'm sure it'll take a long time for all the entities to be organised and educated about its application. In that sense, the role of the trustee is also important. Based on our work so far, we can conclude that the Commissioner is paying great attention to education, not punishment, for violating the provisions of this law, and that is a very good and correct thing. I would also point out another important role of the Commissioner, which is that through his activities he is working to improve the public's awareness of the importance of protecting personal data. That's necessary because it's a law that's not known enough. In a sense, that's understandable. Due to technological advances and innovation development, it is increasingly and widespread to use different databases that often contain personal data. The challenges of protecting this data are growing. Of course, technological development will contribute to economic growth and development to improving the quality of life of each individual. However, it is necessary to ensure, on the other hand, the right to the privacy of every citizen and the protection of personal data is guaranteed by the highest act of this state, that is, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Although it is obvious that today our citizens are increasingly aware of the right to the protection of personal data and on the other hand, the authorities and economic operators are increasingly aware that there is a restriction in the collection and processing of personal data. However, it is a very complex area, which is why there are still a lot of activities to be done in order to fully apply international standards. When we talk about a wide range of jurisdiction and the task of the Commissioner, we cannot without touching the current situation relating to the pandemic of the Coronus virus. There are the most misuses of personal data on the Internet, and during the pandemic, communication, internet use has been increased, so communication has been increased in the online sphere for daily needs. Also, a large number of business entities have sent their employees to work from home, and a large number of services are provided by electronic means to their users. The issue of personal data security is getting a new dimension, as the possibility of abuse has become ever greater. As far as the proposal for the Trustee is concerned, that is to say, Deputy Commissioner Sanja Unkovic, from her biography, we can conclude that she, with her professional qualifications, professional experience and long-term work in the service of the trustee, has every prerequisite to perform this function in a quality way. Finally, I would like to point out that I believe that the choice of Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of Personality Data will allow for better functioning of the organization of the work of the Commissioner's service and contribute to the overall efficiency of this independent body. I would remind the Commissioner, as regards co-operation with the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and with this assembly, that this week, on 22 March, he delivered a new annual report for 2020. That's what I thank you for. You're jealous, you're active. This is a total of 16th annual report on the work of the Trustee on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Matter and Protection of Personal Data. I believe this report will be on the agenda of the National Assembly in the coming period. Now, once again, to conclude for this first part, you really have the support to strengthen your capacities. We in Social Democracy will really always vote for something like that and, of course, we are open to co-operation of any kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4474	Thank you. (Muamer Zukorlic: Replica. I don't think he spoke to you personally, colleague Zukorlic. You asked for a replica? (Muamer Zukorlic: Yes.) ) Prior to that, Mr Milan Marinović has the right to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4475	Thank you. As after the discussion of the previous speaker, we must really thank you for your support and for your efforts to strengthen the institution of the Commissioner, because this will certainly contribute to a better achievement of both human rights that are within the authority of the Commissioner. I would look back here on only three things that you said, which are very, very important to me. One is the obligation to align all other laws dealing with the processing of personality data with the Personal Data Protection Act. I also said that when I presented the annual report on December 26th last year here in this house, that the deadline was the end of last year. Now, of course, it's not up to you, it should be prepared by the competent ministry and the government, but I appeal to you that when it's prepared to make a decision to move that deadline, however it is, whether by the end of this year or by the end of next year, because it's really a huge job. It is hundreds of regulations, i.e. laws which are within the jurisdiction of all ministries in the Government, and should be analysed, see which provisions they are, which are not in line with the Personal Data Protection Act and propose their amendment. In this context, I will only inform you that, just over a year ago, I had a meeting with the Prime Minister and that we agreed that it would be useful for this purpose, but not only to do so, to activate, to update, formally existing National Personal Data Protection Strategy, which has never been done since 2010, for which an action plan has never been done, a working group that would monitor the implementation of the strategy, but which gives us a good formal framework that is in line with the changed circumstances, which means, in accordance with the existence of a new Personal Data Protection Act in the Republic of Serbia and in line with the existence of a European Data Protection Regulation on Personality Data in the EU, to analyse the need for the state and need of amendments to all laws and to the dualism, which now exists, in the area of data protection between the Data Protection Act and some other sectoral laws. Thank you for what you said, that we have dedicated, and I personally, a great deal of attention to education, not punishment. That is the goal, because people have not yet met, after these 19 months of applying, with all their rights, but neither data handlers nor data processors on their obligations under the Personal Data Protection Act. Indeed, education is necessary. We were, unfortunately, in these conditions of the crown getting along, so we were doing an online education. Before that, we worked in the field. We had excellent co-operation with several local self-governments, partly thanks, to say the agreement we made with the Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities on one side. On the other hand, he helped us very much in education, especially at the level of local self-government, the USAID Guy project and we will certainly continue, because I believe that prevention, that education is much more important than punishment. It's not the point of starting with punishment, it can always come to the agenda, but let's raise our awareness, strengthen our citizens' awareness of the protection of their rights, and, as you've rightly noticed, which are the most endangered through social networks at this point, and there should be special attention. I can say, when I mentioned social networks, that you gave a great state scanner, that is, in an area where human rights of all of us, that is, privacy rights, are compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4476	Thank you. MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4477	Thank you. Whoever's guilty has the right to be angry and I totally understand. The formal truth is that the mayor of Novi Pazar was one of the customers from the consortiums of this television. The formal truth is that he was elected mayor in 2016. The formal truth is that in July 2017, he formally withdrew from the consortium. So these are formal truths and they're on paper. So he's been mayor for over a year and he was one of the owners of that television. Now that I'm not getting into it because of a teacher of physical culture so much money that he buys television, that's another topic, and now I'm not going to talk about it, even though we all know he's very often in it, ikebana. What's the real truth? The real truth is that this television is owned by either the SDP party or its president. You know his name, not to mention him. So that's what's real truth. This can be clearly seen from the names of the customers, or members of that consortium, who are the closest associates and activists of that party, but the essence of the problem is not this. The point of the problem is the numbers we haven't heard the answer to. If four-fifths of the budget for all the media are given to one private media, whatever it is, and it is mostly party and it is from that structure, we need an answer to which law and by what principles of justice it is, in fact, allowed in this country to do so year after year. That's the point of the problem. I beg you, if there is a way, mechanisms, form an independent commission. Look into this. If it's any different, I'll publicly apologize here and say it's my fault. So these are obvious things. The rest is politics. The theme that someone has allowed someone to come into town, have you heard the logic, and that someone who speaks ill of that authority is bad because it speaks of the city. Gentlemen, you're not the city. I'm talking about the disastrous results of that government and of course I'll always talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4478	Thanks, buddy. It's time for the replica. Replica, MP Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4479	Who in truth told citizens a few months ago, where the same mayor received absolute support and won more votes than nearly two opposition groups, including Mr Zukorlic's party. I don't want to talk about property. We've passed a recent bill, so maybe he's going through all our property cards, so the public will become clear who are multimillionaires among politicians and who are modest citizens. Anyway, I wouldn't get into it. I wouldn't defend myself, I have nothing to defend myself from. I'll say New Market is a wonderful city. Everyone's welcome to live in it. I don't blame anyone for that. It's abuse of thesis. But I blame the city being told the worst is that it's the core of crime. Imagine the dictionary – crime came out of the shah and flooded the entire city. It's a dictionary we've heard here in this assembly and it's something I'll never admit, because I know that my Markets are good people, wonderful people, honest people, and that crime is less than any other city in this country is the same size. In any case, we at the SDP are for justice and justice and sooner or later we'll get to it and come to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4480	Thank you. Replica, MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4481	Hide behind the New Market again. The new Pazar is not a core of crime, but his authority is a core of crime, vertical crime, crime headquarters, and we will not allow you to hide behind the New Market when it comes to crime, which unfortunately is the enemy of the New Market, and that is the essence of the problem, and it will have to be revealed. Of course, when it comes to the numbers of votes and protection, or valorizing your value by those numbers of votes, there were many higher, there were much stronger, there were many votes, and they eventually fell. Besides, you know very well how those voices of yours are gathering. And that will end, slowly the ring tightens, and you will slowly come to your turn, and of course you will fall. And only when everything that this government has done is revealed, will the authorities of the judiciary and the prosecution have a job to do. So that time is coming, and besides, you had a mass arrest of members of that party and those authorities a few months ago, and that's just the beginning, as far as I know, how much I hear and how much information I have. It's hypocritical to hide behind the city. The city of Novi Pazar is the best and the most beautiful and it is without further ado, as is its citizens, but the cancer of that city is a crime that has been poured out of the shahti, which came not only above the ground, and it belongs underground, but has come to the highest floors of the city government. That's the naked truth, and that's what we're gonna face. What was the problem? The fact that we haven't had representatives from the New Market who are going to say this here, we've already had a monopoly of untruths that always represented things as they weren't and we've had the protection of this crime – there will be no more.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4482	Muamer Bacevac, replica. Your time will return. Please keep an eye on the replicas. I understand the need for you to answer each other's lines, but we're just way off topic. I'll give you a replica and we'll finish the circle of replicas. (Muamer Zukorlic: quote me.) I can't quite repeat what you said, but you can listen to yourself again and see that you called him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4483	I have nothing to defend myself from. I'm sorry that the previous speaker didn't mention crime in his ranks and what was happening in Prepolje, I didn't want to talk about it, and who was it from party officials he represented, arrested, for what and how? Trying in every way to criminalize the city's power in Novi Pazar is one of the manners that the previous speaker constantly makes, in every way by putting pressure, in every way turning things absolutely false data and what is today a trend – false information. It's something the citizens of New Market know and will never accept. The performances of the crown, the vaccination, speak clearly – in every way to degrade doctors and authorities and all that is in power. Nothing affirmative to say, nothing about your programme, but only that in the worst way, your political competition is clouded and criminalized. But I say again, the last word has voters. They are noble and they have already said, which is that they want a modern and honorable government, what is the power in Novi Pazar, as well as the mayor who is the mayor of all citizens in that city...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4484	Thank you, pal, time for your replica. I'm sorry, I took it from you. You've got 10 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4485	It's not a problem. The truth doesn't take that long.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4486	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the parliamentary group, MP of Life Starcevic. But before that, colleague Starčević, according to the Rules of Procedure, Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4487	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107, Article 108 – one can file criminal charges against anyone, one can even arrest anyone, even if we have mounted processes and people are convicted, but the director of a public-communal enterprise...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4488	I'd like to ask a colleague of the Bacevac not to throw it away. Here you go, buddy, finish up, and I'll give my exposure after you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4489	The director of the "City Cleanness" public-communal company in Novi Pazar and the senior official of the ruling party there have concluded an agreement with the prosecution on the recognition of the crime of abuse of official position. (Muamer Bacevic: Which member is injured? Article........................................................................................................................... 107th and 108th. (Muamer Bacevic: How was the dignity of the Assembly injured? )
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4490	Please, colleague, don't abuse the Rules of Procedure now. You're talking about the city's public enterprises in breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're saying I hurt my ankle. 107th and 108th. Please speak in that spirit.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4491	In that spirit, I speak. We can also mention former MP Meh Omerovic and his actions and the shame he has caused, and we need to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4492	Come on, please, to the local assembly in Novi Pazar, and then you two get into replicas. Do you want to make the Parliament's vote in the day? No, I don't. Thank you. I also think I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. The word has, as I said, the deputy president of the JS parliamentary group, MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4493	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Marinovic and his associate, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are here today discussing the selection of Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matters and the Protection of Personality Data, a deputy who will be in charge of the protection of personal data, a deputy who will deal with a question that is very important today's issue, a question that... I'd like to ask you, the chairman, if I may discuss it. I understand I'm between two fires.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4494	I'm sorry, old man. I see you're being distracted by those side kicks. Please, colleagues, let a colleague of yours finish his speech, and if you have something, you can...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4495	I understand this as one congregation pluralism and anyone who accuses this congregation of being one-minded, very wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4496	You see how broad democracy is in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4497	This is all a democratic argument and I understand it all. I said, we're choosing a deputy trustee who will be in charge of the protection of personality data, a question that is very demanding and complex in today's age of information society, in today's era of digitisation, in today's era where all major state systems are building and building large information systems that are full of various personality data and where protecting these data is a key issue today and a question that you, in the end, as a trustee and future deputy we're going to choose, and we from JS will support this proposal, of course, that is a very important question that needs to be dealt with in the next period. Of course, as the information society develops, as the number of Internet users increases, data availability increases, but thus increases the possibility of abuse of such data and abuse of personality data in fact represents any act of illegal and unauthorized use of personality data that has suffered or suffered any loss or damage. Of course, as the world enters the information society more and more, as we go into the era of digitisation, as the number of users and the Internet increases, and the growing number of large information systems and databases, so the problem of data protection has increased, and so has legislative activity in both Europe and ours. Well, we have a lot of these legal acts that treat this area, starting with the Convention on the Protection of Personality against the Automatic Data Processing of the Council of Europe, the famous 108 Convention. We have, for example, the EU Charter which guarantees and guarantees the security of personal data in its Article 8. And, of course, in 2016, the EU adopted a number of legal acts, the most important of which is the general personal data protection regulation. Of course, wanting to go into progress with the world, we passed the first law on the subject in 2008, which started with the implementation of 2009, but wanting to imitate our legal and legal legislation with European and world legislation, we passed the second law in 2018 and it started with the implementation of August 2019. That this is an important question, and you yourself said that all laws that are passed are obliged to comply with the Personal Data Protection Act. We've already passed some laws here concerning large databases, like the Social Card Act recently did. We know that various state institutions and ministries are building, creating and using huge databases, such as the JIS -- a unique information system in education, education, not to mention eGovernment as probably the largest database in our country. We know that the law prescribes precise procedures to ensure that personal data are protected. However, what is also large and I have no doubt that these large information systems are keeping an eye on you and that there is a pretty good protection of personality data. Of course, there's no ideal situation anywhere, but generally I think the situation is pretty good and I hope you'll agree. What matters is that data protection on the Internet, on social networks, is still a major problem today. Namely, we have a situation that every search engine, from Google, via Jahua and any other browser, is generally known to store absolutely all the information about its users. Google shall keep data on its users and their activities for 90 days, more precisely and more precisely nine months. That's what all of us who use those search engines know. Google does not cover this. He sends us an email once a month that says how many hours we spent on the Internet, which we visited all locations during that month. Simply, what my question is, perhaps towards you, is whether these large companies, such as Google, Jahu, etc. have adapted their business in Serbia to our legal frameworks, i.e. have they set up representatives for you to deal with this issue and cooperate with you, as with an independent regulatory body? What matters is that social networks are the phenomenon of today, that more and more users of social networks, but there are more and more different social and social networks. Especially today, at the time of the Kvida-19 pandemic, when a good part of the world locked itself up, when we have a lokdown in many countries, when we have a situation that, as Mr. Markovic also discussed here, we closed the good part of our young population, because they don't go to schools, attend so-called schools. Online teaching because there are no dates, because all the catering facilities, entertainment facilities and cultures are closed. That young population of ours is then turned to social networks, the Internet. There are a lot of positives, but also very, very, very, very negative implications. It's simple, maybe we should talk about how much data is being protected on social networks. There's a situation from social networking to social networking that's different. We have a situation, for example. "Twitter" which in one of its early 2011 court orders in America to reveal information about its users who participated in the Wikiliks affair. "Twitter" then refused, calling for the First Amendment, but we see that as the number of Twitter users grew, that, in particular in the US presidential campaign, Twitter has limited freedom of speech, especially those representatives whose policy is in line with the management policy of this social network. On the other hand, they allow both hate speech and the appearance and the placement of false news. We can see that here in Serbia. Fortunately, in Serbia only 10.5% of people use this social network, but we see that there is a lot of false news, untruths and unverified and incorrect information about individuals. What's interesting is one data protection research on Facebook by a U.S. university, where they made an algorithm whose purpose was to find personal features of Facebook users based on their friends' list. This research showed that only 5% of people remembered to protect their friends' list, that 58% of users published what universities attended, 42% showed jobs, 35% of interests, and 90% allowed access to information about their residence. In this way, through social networks, the malpractice can also use personal data. I think there's a media propaganda, a media performance, an action to do a lot more in education. Perhaps even in collaboration with the Ministry of Education or with some other ministries to do more to educate the protection of private and personal data on social networks, especially when young people, because we have seen, are not frequent, thank God, terrible examples of the abuse of personal data of young people, young people on social networks. Of course, data protection depends a lot on Internet providers who practically have all the information on behavior on the Internet. They give you your address, your IP address and, based on your behavior, they can see everything. The law, thank God, limits them, but here again the question -- to what extent is the law respected and applied? I wouldn't just be about protecting privacy and data online. We have a situation that, unfortunately, software and spy hardware are becoming cheaper and more affordable. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that the highest state officials in this country, but not only in this country, but in the whole world, illegally, unauthorized, are listening immorally. I think this is one situation where you, as an independent regulatory body, can't handle it on your own. Of course, it can't be fought by the Ministry of the Interior alone, it can't be just security services, somewhere much depends on it, and the witness himself these days, from the willingness of the judicial authorities to process and all abuses related to the protection of privacy, related to the protection of personal data, related to the spread of false news about individuals. I think it's part of the state and society and the system that needs to be talked about specifically. That's where I'm going to relate to the judge's choice. Of course, we will also support this proposal in the voting day, but what is important is that our judicial system provides good, quality capacities, to deal with this great problem today's called personal data protection. Of course, in the voting day, both one proposal and another, the JS parliamentary group will support and we want these candidates to have a lot of success in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4498	Thank you. Mr. Marinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4499	I thank you for a truly content discussion and for precisely hitting what in the area of protection of personal data not only in Serbia, but in Europe, in the world, tortures all citizens. The development of artificial intelligence, the development of information technologies and the strengthening of the role of social networks threatens to this extent personal data that indeed all forums and all bodies dealing with, both in the European Union and in national countries, which are concerned with the protection of personal data, are now paying the most attention. It was best seen just at the time of our emergency and at this time pandemic Kovid 19 when we were practically all more focused on social networks than on indirect social contact. You've said perfectly that search engines, you've cited the example of Google, they have our data, and they store it, and they keep it, and who knows where it all ends, and that data. I have to say something now, let me commend myself, not personally but as an independent state body, we were immediately before the emergency was introduced, but also during the state of emergency last year we had real active communication with Google, with their headquarters in California and we had the biggest problem of explaining to them that for us, for Serbia, as well as for some other countries that are not members of the European Union, there is no representative that they have appointed for the European Union, which is based in Dublin. When we convinced them, when we explained the situation that they had to have special representatives for Serbia under our law, they set their representatives, and what is the practical consequence? We've had a few cases so far that our citizens, let's say, on social networks had certain content that they wanted to remove and they ran a unnecessary, I mean, unsuccessful struggle for months, not to mention years. From the moment a Google representative for Serbia was appointed, it goes very quickly, they address and remove these contents and I can say that it has shown its effectiveness. In order to speed up all these big companies, to tell world players, big ones, to set their representatives for Serbia on the website of the Trustee, I have put a list of all the companies that have designated representatives for Serbia to protect personal data and which citizens can contact when they want to process their data on those internet browsers, or on platforms that belong to those search engines. It's fair to mention them, now at least some of them, I apologize to those I'm not going to succeed, but they've appointed representatives of both Google and Alibaba and Vicchet, and Andeks and Buy-Selling, Viz Er and many other companies. Unfortunately, when we addressed Google at the same time, we addressed Facebook. We worked twice, we didn't get the answer, and that doesn't exactly show, let me say, a responsible attitude towards citizens in Serbia, who use Facebook services and its platforms. We'll try to invite them to know the rights too. In any case, the next thing I think about, although we're going to see, we're going to make one next to that positive list, which I said, to make one negative list of those companies that didn't set up representatives, even though it's a legal obligation, and that's how they operate and that's where they're present in our sky, the Internet uses services, or they offer services, and they often charge them in our citizens' dinars. We are not the European Union, we are not threatened with such penalties as the European Union has. We cannot impose fines in tens of millions of euros, although some of these companies don't even care that much, but what we can say is that some company that is there, which is world-renowned, does not respect the country's rules, whose citizens are addressed and who are practically using its services. Thank you for mentioning this, and I would just refer to what is very important and I plan to do this in the future, what you said about education, especially the education of young people of school age in the Republic of Serbia. My idea is, hopefully, that one day it will come to life, I will give full support to it, to the protection of personal data, and that is certainly consistent with movements everywhere in the world, that the protection of personality data is part of the teaching plan and programme, both in primary and secondary schools within a subject, so that from the early age of young citizens of this Serbia learn how to protect their data and whether to accept before clicking – when they take over some application read privacy rules to see that they are threatened. Thank you for that, and I will stand up for it and hope that it will see the light of day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4500	Replica, Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4501	Thank you. The replica, first of all, is in a positive sense. Absolutely as someone who spends his entire life working in education and education, I recognize the importance of activities in the plan for education of young people related to the protection of privacy data and not only that, about the importance of general behaviour and culture of behavior on the Internet because this culture of behavior on the Internet is part of a common culture today and that is something that is certainly very important and you will have our support in this sense and not only in principle, but also operational. What I was also going to say is, you mentioned Facebook that ignored you during the previous period, and I really have to say that I know very well about matter, that the behaviour of this company when it comes to Serbia and many countries outside the EU, so to speak, at the very least, is unacceptable because their centre in charge of Serbia is, if I am not mistaken, in Poland. Each of your remarks, your every desire to illustrate something, to point out some bad phenomena or anything negative that happens on that social network gets an automatic answer – everything is according to our regulations, everything is according to our rules, and until a few years ago it was a little different. They had some of their representatives here and you were able to react to certain situations. However, several years back, their representations, if I am not mistaken, are for Serbia in Poland and I support you. Insist that you communicate with these and similar companies so that your business, if we don't lie, they all operate here in Serbia, match our laws and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4502	I thank my colleague Starčević. Before we proceed with further work, one notice, or information about today's work. Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. 27th and 87th centuries 2nd and 3rd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4503	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Mr Marinovic, the esteemed advisors of the Commissioner, the respected representatives of the VSS, are present today's staff solutions, so to speak, which should be declared by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but regardless of what we formally talk about human resources, it is always an opportunity to exchange views on the areas that belong to you, or what is your responsibility, because we believe that this can be useful to you in the next period of time, but also to us as legislators or as someone who has the legitimacy and trust of citizens to do a responsible and serious job, as you do. One of these issues is a colleague Starcevic has launched today and we fully support it when it comes to the education of young people, primarily regarding behaviour for the Internet. First of all, I would like to talk about the choice of Deputy Commissioners, which is part of achieving the electoral function of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Recently, at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we had the opportunity to discuss the report on the work of independent institutions and regulatory bodies, so we also discussed the report on the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. On this occasion, I specifically pointed out that this independent state body is contributing to democratisation, strengthening public authority's responsibility towards citizens as well. It shall contribute to the transparency of the work of the national authorities which have a legal obligation to provide information of public importance, at the request of this authority or other interested parties. The Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection, as an independent state body in our legal system, exists for more than 15 years, I think. It has significant powers with regard to improving the availability of data of public importance, as well as in the area of protection of personal data. The Commissioner for Public Information is also independent and independent of the influence of the legislative, executive authority, must neither seek nor receive suggestions or instructions for his work from other state authorities or other persons. His independence also entails responsibility for doing this extremely important and important job. How important the Commissioner is to the Republic of Serbia is also telling the fact that it is the organ with the longest mandate, and its term of office is seven years. The trustee is someone who mediates between the public of individuals and public authorities. The trustee is an authority believed to be able to address, first of all, the particular problem that individuals or legal persons have in the exercise of certain rights. The body is also in charge of the law to protect the right to free access to information, but at the same time also a body that protects the right to privacy of persons, so that no one else's reputation is damaged in any way. It decides on complaints on public authorities' decisions refusing access to information, drawing up and publishing a manual for practical instructions, to exercise the right provided for by law, to provide guidance on the publication of information about the work of state authorities and a number of other powers, i.e. a number of other obligations and responsibilities. The importance of the institution of the Trustee speaks, among other things, of a large number of received cases, indicating a growing level of trust in the institution of the Trustees and expectations of citizens and other applicants, which requires that the work of the Trustees will also affect the more responsible work of public authorities, and thus, of course, public administrations. Otherwise, the role of the Commissioner for Public Information has been regulated by the Law on the Free Access of Information of Public Meaning, which was adopted by the Council of the Republic of Serbia on 5.11.2004 and since 2019, the law has changed the name of the Authority and extended its jurisdiction to the application of the Personal Data Protection Act, which has been fully logical and justified. This law determines how the Trustee is elected, therefore, by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Assembly Committee on Culture and Information, a person with a recognised reputation and expertise in the field of protection and improvement of human rights, a person who has graduated from the Faculty of Law, has at least 10 years of working experience. Under the same law, the trustee is scheduled to have a deputy. We chose the trustee exactly on the basis of the qualifications I spoke of, now it's our turn to choose the deputy. You, Mr. Marinovic, in the opening statement, said that both laws that apply and apply the Trustee, predict that you can have two deputies, that you are practically working without any deputies at this time, you also said the period since, since March 2018, it seems to me. (Milan Marinovic: Since March 2020. - Yes, in 2020, I heard wrong. Excuse me. So there are no deputies, although it's defined that when there are two, there are two, and the service works without both deputies. You've done a good digression, because with an interruption of the state of emergency and with a large number of requests received, the work could practically be blocked at some point unless you chose at least one deputy at this point, which is primarily your responsible and serious relationship with the work you've taken responsibility for. The amount of work requires that at this point according to your assessment, and I truly believe in your assessment select a deputy who will be tied to the area of protection of personal data. We believe you've chosen and proposed the best candidate for this post. It requires close, professional and specialized knowledge and what we were able to look at from the biography and directly before the session of the Committee on Culture and Information, therefore, it is certainly about the person who has the abilities necessary to carry out this responsible work. What is important to point out is what you said in the opening statement, so we will definitely choose the deputy, but it is important that you have quality people and that this proposal is just coming from the ranks of these people. So people who have experience have knowledge know business and don't need time to get acquainted with matter. Then practically again, as you said in the opening statement, there could be a certain blockade in the work. Of course we will support this proposal, among other things we talked about at the Committee on Culture and Information session. When it comes to the election of judges who are first elected to judge office, this is an increasingly common topic in the National Assembly. We don't think that's bad, on the contrary. A common choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office only confirms the need to strengthen the justice system with quality personnel, and these new personnel should contribute to what we all seek, which is an even more effective judiciary. I spoke of the importance of the judicial branch of power, as one of the three pillars of each state several times, but it is never against the refuting of the importance of the judiciary to build a rule of law, the rule of law, a democratic society in which every citizen should be the same before the law. Serbia today seeks to make progress in all segments of society, especially when it comes to the construction of a rule of law and particularly stresses when it comes to government rights. We set development goals that can be achieved by the precisely regulated justice system that the EU is insisting on and that is why I said, in particular, I stress the rule of law. This is one of the pre-accession conditions for Serbia as a candidate for EU membership and the judiciary must implement high European standards, not only because it is an EU requirement, but because of the need to improve the quality of the work of judicial authorities through strengthening the rule of law institutions. I must commend the state's investment in improving the working conditions of judicial authorities that have been current for the past few years, we think this is very important and important. The judiciary's jurisdiction calls for certain special attention from the EU given the initial basis that a stable judicial system is necessary for the exercise of the rule of law. I would have a lot to say when it comes to the EU's relationship and their attitude of their perception and their understanding of the rule of law, but it's not a topic, I'll talk about it another time. I am deeply convinced and I think the citizens of Serbia see it, that Serbia is a regulated legal state in which the institutions of the system function, and from the EU, you know, I'll just say that, we're used to double standards and double arches, and I'm going to put an end to it, so I'm going to talk about some other topics, because we're going to see the European Parliamentarians very soon, so there's going to be a chance for us to talk about it too. So this is definitely the area to which special attention should be paid, judicial independence, impartiality, professionalism, expertise, efficiency, as well as the need for further judicial reform. I would like to remind you that in a report by the European Commission, which the National Assembly discussed at the end of 2020, which I also spoke about, the recently established rule of law sector in Serbia, which also requires that the judiciary be further strengthened in the direction of the implementation of the EU legal flows, and that is why I have just emphasized the rule of law. Serbia is now moving towards creating an effective judicial model that will be in line with the EU's legal assets and that citizens will be able to carry out their human and civil rights in a smooth and efficient manner according to the highest standards. To be clear, all of that, I will repeat, I have said this today using my right as president of the parliamentary group and asking a parliamentary question. The citizens of Serbia know very well, we show clear determination and determination to become a full member of the EU. There is not a single task set before the government of the Republic of Serbia that it has not been successfully realised. But the EU must also finally understand that many things on the path of European integration are done and done, not because of the EU, not because of the European parliamentarians, but because of Serbia, because of the citizens of Serbia and because of our future. Finally, when the proposed holder of the judicial office is concerned, which is the candidate for the Court of Commerce in Zajecar, it is necessary to re-emphasise a significant role and great responsibility that arises precisely from independence in the performance of the judicial office, and therefore it is important, I repeat, expertise, dignity, experience, but it is also important to make difficult decisions, i.e. judgments. By electing this judge to serve as first judge, the National Assembly is exercising its electoral function and in this way, as a legislative body, we would once again like to make a contribution to qualitative changes in the area of justice. Once again, both proposals will certainly support the SPS parliamentary group's voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4504	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children national MP Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4505	I thank the esteemed Vice President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is a real pleasure when we have the opportunity to discuss both ultimately and make a choice in the debate in two independent institutions such as the institution of the Trustees and, of course, another topic on which we will discuss the choice of judges. I will remind you only of my presentation as a representative of the Committee as regards the Commissioner for Public Information, i.e. the protection of personal data, i.e. a deputy for the protection of personal data. I will start at the beginning and say that as your proposal, the proposal has arrived at the Committee on Culture and Information and that part that I have remained in debt to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the Committee's name is that we have respected the overall procedure envisaged by the selection of the Committee's Commissioners and procedures, which was that we had a very important and constructive discussion at the Committee's meeting itself and I was really pleased. We've talked about different topics from the workaround of your work. Among other things, we also had a conversation with your candidate, namely Sanja Unkovic, a graduate lawyer who otherwise comes from your institution and mentions again, it was a real pleasure to speak to two respected experts in this area. The MPs were really very interested in answering the questions that you were giving, and that's something that perhaps, in the context of your reports, of course, could, and certainly you were in practice, you were relatively soon in office. What is very important is that your honesty in the work was truly crucial in the fact that we really started such a discussion and started with the Committee on Culture and Information. As much as the pandemic has brought bad things, it has taught us so much, so in this very situation, you have unfortunately realized that having a deputy is not a matter of law on paper, but of another pair of hands and another person who can replace you in exactly these situations when we may sometimes think that we don't need a replacement and that maybe the disease won't affect us. Maybe it's a lesson and a message that can go away from this session, from this debate, that still the crown has entered all the pores of this society, not only of our own, but the entire globe, the whole world, and that it really affects regular life, the work, it affects practically everything that we thought was normal by yesterday, today we have to adapt to new situations. I am very, very interested in how a young person on your team is able to take on such a significant role within the institution of which you are headed. Her knowledge, not only of her expertise, but of the management skills that we have assured ourselves exist, is indeed qualified for a quality deputy, and your powers are certainly almost the same in that case. So much for Sanja Unkovic. Of course, we are already on behalf of the Committee and have suggested that this proposal be accepted today in the vote. I hope so. What I'm saying is, especially when you come as a representative of an independent institution in the home of the National Assembly, it's just one piece of evidence to us here in this debate about your reports, that democracy in Serbia is at its peak, that in relation to everything we've had in the previous period, to see exactly from the institution from which you come from, it was not the case. Although this function of the Commissioner, I cannot even say many times, but almost always has been abused politically, it is a pleasure to come here today, to talk to you, to participate in the work and to control the work of the Trustees because we know that we are talking to independent candidates, to talk to independent institutions independent of work, independent of the political influence of institutions that have their integrity guaranteed by laws and the Constitution. This is what this tribe and this congregation majority differed from all those who in the previous period had the opportunity to choose, to co-operate with different institutions, among other things, with the institution of the Commissioners that you represent. I'll remind you of a few, because yet it seems to me we need that reminder. We tend to forget quickly because we simply got something that this function of the Trustee represents in the way that the law foresees, and therefore when you look at your work, which is truly uncut professional, we come to the fact that we forget what it used to look like. So I'm going to remind you, since it's important, and I'm going to come back after that and your proposal to extend this law in one domain and that it's obsolete. Of course, if we had a continuity in the work of the Trustee in the previous period, we would probably have this law in some foreseeable time sooner. But of course it wasn't possible. For what reason? For reasons that if we start from your predecessor, who was a political institution, I can't even say it in person, since he sat in such a sensitive institution as the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, I am talking about Rodoljub Sabic, who openly defended his political ideals, his political views, but also belonging to certain political parties by proving everyday loyalty to the same. It was almost daily and it went to that limit and measure, and I will remind you that Rodoljub Sabic is now politically active and still likely to pay back the debt to those whose authority he was in, since we see that, however, now that he has no more public function, is active on the social network "tweeter" and that facelessly, I must say, spits out SNS, because this dictionary is not suitable for anyone who has performed such a responsible state function at all. So he attacked our parliamentary group president, Dr Martinovic, for exactly one thing that was put on him during the previous period, which is here, counting that each MP has the right to his position, in his opinion, to freedom of speech, which the Commissioner himself must protect, certainly, he came from the position of the Commissioner's institution for information of public importance and protection of personality data on the occasion that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, in July 2016, charged him, that is to say, to the Administrative Court in Belgrade against the Commissioner, Rodoljub Sabic for breaking several laws. Since the laws that have been broken this way are really very serious and that I can bring you not only into connection with the fact that perhaps recklessly, which is certainly not the case, have broken the law, but can also bring you into contact with other representatives of the authorities outside the Republic of Serbia, that I am now not using these terms here, because of the freedom of speech they often forbid us, in the National Assembly as MPs, I will not say it, but you and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, after what I bring you into a few sentences, will conclude who, or what kind of person they are and what they are, ultimately, much more important, the intentions of the Trustees were. So, the suit was signed by Deputy Zagorka Dolovac, Snezana Markovic, and was filed for the annulment of Shabic's March 2016 solution, which was ordered by the Ministry of Defence to forward to the humanitarian law fund without delay copies of documents from which it can be learned when Goran Jeftic was appointed to the post of staff officer of the Pristina Army of Yugoslavia during the 1999 conflict in Kosovo until he was in that place and who had the rank. The lawsuit, among other things, states that taking into account such data would have consequences for Serbia's military's defence capabilities, would endanger the country's defence, national and public security, as well as the personal security of officers and subordinates. The provision of such data, the proponent considers, is contrary to the interests of the Republic of Serbia, and the country's interest is more difficult than the interests of others to obtain information. It is also believed that the contested solution has been carried out in violation of the provisions of the Law on Defence, the Law on Military, Working and Material Obligation, the Law on the Securitisation of Information, the Law on the Serbian Army, and consequently the Law on Free Access of Information of Public Meaning has been incorrectly applied. These are the allegations from the case against Rodoljub Sabic, where it is very clear to you, although I do not tell you here now, what kind of man it is and that it is a man whose interests were not the interests of the Republic of Serbia and that we here today can think, based on the views it still stands for, to whom it is and, in fact, to whom it is then, while performing this responsible function in, I will remind you, an independent institution, what is the institution of the Trustee. So this is not the only case where this or similar institution, which absolutely must be independent in its work, is being abused. So I'll remind you that we've had cases like this at the level of the province's government, or the province of Vojvodina. Since the Vojvodina Assembly was in charge of electing the Province of Manchester, the Vojvodina Assembly appointed it, while Bojan Pajtic, Dejana Jancu, president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, who was 82 at that time, was headed by the new province of Simeon at that time in 2009, even though his working relationship by law had ceased at the age of 65. So, the paper is not only against the Constitution, as we have seen in this case, against the interest of the Republic of Serbia, against its security, but also flagrantly violated the law when it was necessary for political members to bring their political listeners to places which, I say once again, are mandatory, first by their independence, integrity, free from any political influence. I don't know if it's necessary to mention that case that is known to all of us and how well it is, as far as one presidential candidate who has just joined the presidency, that is to say, the future candidate for President of the Republic of Serbia has just been activated by the Commissioner, the Citizens' Protector. So I think it's a case where the public is definitely familiar. In addition to misappropriating his post to run for president, there were some other indications that this person was involved in the worst crimes, such as murder. So they were persons who marked the work of independent institutions in the previous period. Then you can understand, I can probably also let the citizens of the Republic of Serbia understand, when you come here to the National Assembly, and I will look back at the choice of judges, you will allow me, with the joy of talking to you here about amending the law, about everything that will improve the work of the Commissioners, not just the work of the Commissioner and increase your powers, but, of course, because all of us here, and we, too, serve the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which will provide them with greater rights and greater freedoms. It is indeed every time a real pleasure to talk about it. Believe that, knowing the law, knowing that you are right when you say that in one part it is obsolete in view of both new technologies and that you need greater powers in order to apply, in accordance with the current situation, parts and provisions concerning trustee institutions for information of public importance and protection of personality data, believe that you will always have an associate in the Republika Srpska Assembly of the Serbian Progressive Party Group "Alexandar Vukic – To our children" and, ultimately, always have support. It is precisely your work in the previous period, I also say, very briefly, but for this short period you have really brought one extraordinary result and I must say that your results are getting lower even in this period when we are all suffering and in danger of the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia somehow put everything else aside. You did not stay practically out of progress, you are here, especially now doing your part of the job, and for this reason we really support the proposal that Mrs. Unkovic is acting as Deputy Commissioners, believing that from these powers and powers you have, you really do have a wide range of work, that in that case you really need help. As for the second topic on today's agenda, and as for the election of judges, I have to say that this process is here, you've seen in some previous few months, constantly, that judges are elected here and that we're discussing and we're talking about candidates and how. But I will remind you, also speaking of the independence of those who enter this house, in violation of the flagrant constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia and the trust they received in the previous period from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I must, and cannot mention it, because this question is really being asked almost daily, because to the most extent, it is not clear to them how all those who were in power in the previous period, and here I think of Dragan Dilas, here I think of Boris Tadic, here I think of Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic and others, in which way all this time, although there is some evidence that points to theft and crime, remained out of reach of the law. I'm about to try that now in a few minutes, how much time I have left, to explain. So, the politicization of the judiciary, as well as all the institutions that we had the chance to hear today, was practically a possibility for their extended hands to remain out of reach of the law, and they were thinking ahead because they knew how much they were stealing, beyond the reach of the laws to change power. So their failure to reform the 2009 judiciary, which I recall here and the MPs, is insufficiently speaking, and yet, you will agree with me, the cancer of our judiciary's wounds. To remind citizens, the failed reform of the judiciary cost Serbia 44m euros in 2009. This amount has been paid for wages, and I'll remind you that almost in one day about 1,000 judges have been changed. Why? Because they were not responding and were not political listeners to the regimes of Boris Tadic and Dragan Dilas, and they calculated that they had to have the ally in order to cover all their corrupt activities in some way. So this 44m-euro sum was paid for the salaries of unselected 836 judges, 75 deputy prosecutors, who paid for almost two years, although they did not work. After 12 years of re-election of judges and prosecutors, the state authorities have not collected the total damage suffered by the budget due to compensation for payments to the unselected, as well as losses caused by problems and delays in the work of courts and prosecutors. You best know that as representatives of the Council of the High Court, you know how much it cost us. You know how many cases are left that aren't processed, how many out-of-date cases are left, you know how long it's been waiting, because sometimes someone thought they could influence an independent judiciary, that they could control it, and that they could control it from an independent judiciary, from a branch of the government to make their own political bureau, where decisions will be made that correspond to the justice of crime and theft they did at the time they were in power. If I wasn't going in here right now, this is the topic we should be working on every day. I'm not saying today that this part of the government's branch needs to suffer even more changes and certain reforms, but only those that will bring it to an even greater independence from a political factor tomorrow. Because that is the essence, that is what we want for our citizens, to give them the maximum democracy and to be responsible for the exercise of power, to be responsible for every step in all these years in which we have tried to separate the institutions of the Republic of Serbia from the politicians, so it must remain and these rights guarantee the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they live in a democratic state and that is something that must never be questioned. You will allow me only in these few minutes that I have left today, my colleague Aleksandar Markovic mentioned today, I do not really want to enter this necrophilic policy that is being led against the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, these allegations that have now flooded these Jilasovic media, which are trying to bury for days, unsuccessfully, an affair related to secret accounts and millions that Dragan Gilas has on Mauricias, Hong Kong, Delaware and Switzerland and various other tax havens. Another affair took place today in the newspaper, though, but I sincerely hope that the prosecution, knowing that it is doing its job when it comes to examining controversial accounts and millions held by Dragan Gilas in tax havens, to deal with what is currently in the papers run by these Gilas companies, what is the company "Multicom", which in its final account for 2019 has made another marifetluk, another financial malversion that has allowed 3,750,000 euros literally Dragan Gilas to give to Šolak. Since we know it's a big happy family, it doesn't give it to Dragan Gilas Sollaku, it still does it the same way he's used to tax evasion and hiding the origins of money to reduce those 619 million people who worship him in public, and it's very unsuccessful, obviously, working. Given that the state authorities are dealing with this topic, I will only appeal once more that these quoted journalists are being checked and just to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what this is about. So, Dragan Gilas wrote down 440 million dinars in the 2019 report on the name of the belonging dividends "Darekt Media", when it was then owned by the "United Group". In this way, he reduced capital value, profit, and managed to mislead another financial marifettelu value of his company and gifts, as I said, to Draga Sollaku another million. So, today in today's debate, I am asking you MPs to support this proposal to elect Deputy Commissioners, since I think that indeed the right person will be elected to the right place and to continue to fight together for independent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4506	I would like to thank the deputy president of the "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children" parliamentary group. Since we no longer have registered representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups in the system, we are moving on to the list. Dear Members of the People to inform you that, as the President has pointed out and that you can plan your duties, we will have a regular break of one hour today between 15.00 and 16.00 hours, not between 14:00 and 15.00, as usual. The first on the list is the National MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4507	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. As you have had the opportunity to hear, representatives of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, MPs, will support these proposals. We believe that an institution like this, the Trustee of information of public importance, is extremely important for our society, that it is extremely important that we have a corrective action that will be at the service of everyone who is damaged in any way and who will have these mechanisms necessary to implement all those procedures that other instances of this society are not at this moment powerful to implement. It is also important to improve this institution, i.e. that, in addition to having the opportunity to impose penalties, we find the mechanism and that these penalties are implemented, that it is not only that every major or important decision taken by the trustee is so linked to those penalties that the Trustee addresses the Government because we do not have a different mechanism to simply implement the decision and the whole process that led to the establishment of major malversion in certain cases. Therefore, this institution or any other institution that is in coordination with this institution must have that mechanism and the execution of the penalty to be imposed. This is very important to us, because this prevents major corruption. It could not have happened as happened, let's say, in the case of the Football Alliance of Serbia and the New Pazar Football Club, that the trustee found that there was a broken law, that it sought to collect and execute the fines, however, that it still lays down because there are no mechanisms to resolve it. Why does it matter? As important as this is because of the Football Federation of Serbia, it is even more important because of the town of Novi Pazar, because the town of Novi Pazar is the owner of the New Pazar Football Club, and this purchase that we still don't know how much it was, how much funds have been allocated from the New Pazar City budget, has come under way in this city's largest pandemic. When we cried out from all sides, we received donations to save people's lives, when the General Hospital was in disaster, when we were faced with such a disaster that we hadn't faced for a very long time, we found a way for the city of Novi Pazar, instead of investing those funds to save the lives of its citizens, to invest in something that's a rather suspicious transaction as regards more side-by-side things again, i.e... football, or football competitions. Our priority was to save people's lives, instead of buying under suspicious circumstances a place in the Super League. Also, when it comes to this kind of crime relationship, which is quite present in sports societies, especially in this, unfortunately, football club that we have talked about many times, so it is very important for us to implement these penalties and all those other abuses that have happened in the past, because it is all paid by citizens, and especially by the citizens of these poor, devastated municipalities that this money would prefer to be invested in the construction of industry, in opening new jobs, in providing existence for all of us, i.e. creating ambiences that will allow our children and future generations to have any perspective and hope for a happier future. It is therefore important that we have an institution next to the trustees that will determine all this, but we need to ensure that what is determined and implemented, in order to stop this spread of organised crime that has been peaking for decades and of course that uses this kind of sports associations to simply pump money out of the citizens' budget. Also, when it comes to judges, it is very good that in the positions of the responsible judges we get honest and honest persons, however, I will make one principle comment here regarding the fact that our judiciary and judges are still not free of all different influences. The judges who swear an oath in this Assembly and under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia still do not respect the Constitution until the end. So we had, let's say, these days in the Senate a case that judges do not respect the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to have a trial in their native language, which is absurd. If something is guaranteed by the Constitution and if this Constitution is the main law under which these judges must judge and if they took an oath here before the public and the institutions of the Republic of Serbia to protect the Constitution and human and minority rights, then they must respect the right of every member of the national community to have the process in their native language. The process of getting used to judicial authorities has moved far away in both Belgrade and other judicial units, however, we are still surprised that in those environments where it would be the most normal, such as Sjenica, we still have those judges who do not respect the Constitution, who do not respect the right of citizens of this country. It should therefore be reconsidered, once and for all, to underline to these judges that they are obliged to respect the citizens of this country and to judge them solely by the Constitution and by the laws, i.e. to respect their individual and collective minority and human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4508	Thank you. Your group's time has been spent. The word has a folk MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4509	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, protection of personality data is the foundation of the security and privacy of a modern man in the modern world. These data protection rights are compromised, I think, and by the very knowledge that personal data are, by a fraction of a second or just one click away from some public space, where it certainly doesn't belong. We are witnessing that data from health records, social and material status and a number of other sensitive personality data often end up on social networks, but unfortunately also on the front pages of the tabloids. Of course, you'll agree, like everyone in the O.R., that such data is neither on social networks nor on front pages, nor on the media at all. Why? Because it affects the safety of the citizens. Security is one of the basic human needs. If people are at risk of a roof over their heads, food, safety, health, etc., people are unable to function very well. People need to feel safe, feel that the state protects them from good laws that are consistently applied, that their property is protected, that their privacy is also protected, because it creates this sense of security, but it also creates a sense of trust in the state and in the institutions of the system that are there to achieve the human rights of every citizen. How many times did it happen to all of us to call us on Saturday or Sunday afternoon by phone from various product and service vendors without ever giving them a phone number or permission to call and disturb us? How many times did it happen at the store when we advertised a particular product on the salesman's advertising form insists that we enroll JMBG? We are also witnessing, unfortunately, that often, I believe, by accident, that state authorities and state institutions often publish data that should be protected, therefore personal data of citizens. I don't think we as a society, and you certainly don't, according to your function as you do, we can't live up to the fact that some state institution publishes personal data, phone numbers, data from the polling list, etc. We also talked about sensitive, and open data, for example on the Agency's website for Business Registers. Personal data is much more than just JMBG or phone number. Personal data are also e-mail address and fingerprint and photos and location and number of visits to a site etc. So personal data is something that's inalienable and that's been following us all our lives. We cannot replace that, nor change it, the SDPS Group supported your choice for the Trustee and you justify that trust with your work. If you judge her by that, we believe that the deputy you personally suggested and who you gave unequivocal support will be diligently and responsibly doing his job. It's important that it comes from the trustee's office, so it has great experience in working precisely on the protection of personal data. I believe that by choosing Sanja Unkovic we will make a good decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4510	I would like to thank the deputy president of the SDPS parliamentary group. The word is from the vice president of the National Assembly, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4511	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Vice President, honored guests, on today's agenda we have two very important points. One refers to the choice of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and the other to the choice of Judges. A unique Serbia in the voting day will support the proposed points. First, I'd like to talk about selecting a Deputy Commissioner for Public Information. When we mention the institution of the Commissioners that has existed since 2004, we can say that citizens' rights to information and faster access to information have been improved, especially when we know that changes and additions to the Law on free access to information are of public importance. One of the very important changes that you have just proposed, Mr Marinovic, is that more powers are entrusted to this institution such as fines in nominal amounts for various authorities that do not provide the requested information, the exercise of inspection supervision and the like. As I said, it's a good proposal because it will contribute faster access to information, greater proactiveness of the authorities themselves, while at the same time preventing the abuse of information. The existing law was passed some 15 years ago, there's room to complete to be at the benefit of all of us, and we could hear today in a discussion from my colleagues as much as in these 15 years, and how different things have changed when we talk about the abuse of information by using social networks. So I wouldn't detail it, because I think each of us has a warrant on one of the social networks, and he used to have a situation where the information that's on their orders was misused. I hope that in the future and the adoption of the proposed law will be prevented and that every citizen will be protected regardless of whether he is a public figure or an ordinary citizen of this country. I also want to say that unfortunately the role of the Trustee is not insignificant, but in practice it comes down to the role of a second-degree body because you are not in a position to provide information to citizens as an independent state body, i.e. that you are looking for it in their place and according to the current regulations, the Trustee is not even able to enable forced access to information of public importance to an institution if the citizen asked for that information without obtaining it. This basically means that if a citizen, for example, asks for information from an institution, gets an answer that the institution does not have that information and there is an indication that it is available, the Trustee, that is, you do not even have the mechanism to exercise supervision and to check that it is. It is precisely the new law that will make it possible and that is good, given that we want an open society, a society where citizens will be able to be informed at all times of all information they consider to be of public importance and thus be familiar with the work of all institutions in the state. I liked your statement very much, and today you reiterated that you wanted some kind of territorial decentralisation of the institution of the trustee, that the trustee would get a little bit more into Serbia, to leave Belgrade, in the sense that you have the area of the unit in some regional centres, where citizens might be able to file complaints, I'll get back to Raška County after I come from that district, for example for the Raška District to be in the Kingdom, and that the citizens who come from Novi Pazar or Raška can now complain here because the Kingdom is close to them, that they don't have to go to Belgrade without having to send the inspection from Belgrade but from the Kings, so you would save money and citizens and the state. As for the EU and our compliance with EU rules, Serbia has consistently provided professional assistance through public administration reform, which is otherwise assessed as positive, by relying on experience and good practice in its countries. Otherwise, in 2020, Serbia ratified the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons for Automatic Personal Processing and the objective of the Protocol is to ensure that the principles of protection of personal data apply to all active processing in an integrated society, including national security, as well as respect for the independence of the Personal Data Protection Authority, strengthening the legal basis for international co-operation. Otherwise, Serbia is the fourth member state of the Council of Europe to ratify the Protocol, following Bulgaria, Lithuania and Croatia. About a month ago, we were just in the Assembly discussing a report by the Commissioner on information of public importance as well as the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for Gender Equality, which speaks of the engagement of our country to make human rights a priority, that the right of every citizen is important, regardless of what nationality it is. I believe that as a society, we are mature enough and responsible enough to build a country that will give us equal chances for everyone. Unique Serbia will always support solving problems affecting ordinary people. As I said, the second important item on today's agenda refers to the choice of judges. Unique Serbia sincerely supports strengthening judicial independence, strengthening the prosecution's independence as a fundamental principle of rule of law, and in line with the modern and democratic Serbia we are fighting for, and what we all seek. Otherwise, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts that judges are first elected to serve as judges for a period of three years, which is precisely when the House is elected on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary. The role of the High Council of the judiciary is crucial in seeking to make Serbia an effective and functional rule of law. Why is that? It is precisely because the High Council of the Judiciary elects and resolves judges, conducts a selection of candidates, and through one pragmatic concept proposes to the National Assembly the choice of judges during the first election at the judge's office, and a whole series of concrete competencies including decision-making regarding the immunity of judges. Their role is constructive and immeasurable. You're important for building a state of law. Serbia today is a legal state in which the law is equal for everyone, whether to protect or punish. The National Assembly, on the other hand, is the most representative body and institution of constitutional and legislative authority in the country. The people are the bearer of sovereignty, and from it is the government in the country, and it is the people who decide what the congregation assembly will look like today in the previous years and in the years to come. So it's the people who are the bearer of sovereignty. The rule of law is the basic assumption of the Constitution and rests on inalienable human rights. The rule of law in its primary vision represents the legal equality of all and the protection of human rights provided by an independent judiciary. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia plays a complex and fully responsible role in selecting judges who are first elected to the judicial post. Otherwise, judgments and judgments are made on behalf of the people, and the National Assembly is therefore a fundamental bond with the people. An independent judge is a judge who is not subject to will, but a judge who does his job fairly and honorably and judges under the Constitution and law, and I'm sure the judges we choose today are just such judges. I may be out of the subject for a second, but it's about the judiciary. Serbia has clearly defined objectives and action plans as regards the fight against organised crime, and that is why our country's co-operation with the Eurozone is in addition, and we have adopted this Agreement in the previous years in the Assembly, thereby further strengthening the capacities in this fight. Now, when we look through the prism of the judiciary, special courts dealing with this very topic in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kralje and Nis have been opened and their results are good because over 1,500 people have been charged in the past two years. As I have already touched the judiciary, I would like to say that through the European Commission's report, Serbia's intention to reduce the number of cases left behind is commended and to increase the urgency of the courts. I mean, it's absurd that some judgments are pending for 20 years, that simply, generationally, judicial proceedings are being conducted, that someone who gets an inheritance and an inherited court case. So, I hope, as far as we are concerned, we will increase our alertness and reduce this average amount of judicial action in Serbia. The main objectives of all relevant political factors are an independent and efficient and independent judiciary. By creating a social climate, we seek European standards, when it comes to judicial independence, but when it comes to the independence of all institutions in Serbia. Because of all this, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support both points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4512	Thank you, Vice President of the Assembly. The word has the vice-president of the SPS parliamentary group, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4513	I thank Vice President Kovac. Dear guests of the high home, respected colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, two important points certainly, and that is what my colleagues have been talking about. I'm going to go in a way that I'm going to say first that we're going to support the choice of judges, for many reasons, but what I want to look back on is that I always feel the satisfaction of choosing professionals in such important places as the judges. Why do I say that? Because the time behind us tells us that we rarely knew that we were making a mistake, or worse, that the courts were doing their job, that the judges were making an impartial decision, and that politics was making the big mistake we're paying today. What am I talking about, March 24th, yesterday, Prime Minister so-called Kosovo, Albin Kurti, has allowed itself the luxury of making a statement that it celebrates the day and is happy to remember in 1999 in which the planes then crashed into the Serbian sky, promising freedom, the dawn of freedom. I quote "Today we celebrate the victory of power, human conscience over violence and Serbian chauvinism". I don't accidentally tie this to the judges, because if we had enough political consciousness, Albin Kurti would never be free, not even today. The moment the defendant was convicted of crimes as a terrorist, I think he was sentenced to some deadline he wouldn't have kept out of jail today, so he wouldn't have left him, even the possibility that in this so-called. The state is acting prime minister and yet brutally mocking Serbian victims, accusing us of something that, not that is not our sin, but our biggest and that, is an open wound. In that sense, I think it's very important when we choose judges and when we show them trust, but also when we make sure that these are people who, above all, are not subject to any influence, because in the years behind us, we have had some period when we choose judges, because they are similar and because someone likes them. I don't know the candidate, but I can see from the biography that we have a quality proposal and I hope that this quality practice continues, that only such people will be chosen for those functions. The second item of the agenda, no less important, Mr. Marinovic, we saw each other on the Committee on Culture. I'm privileged, so I've had the honour and opportunity to ask Mrs. Sanja Unkovic and hear and know and understand what kind of energy it is. However, before I return to the candidate himself, I will commend your work. We heard there, all of what you were obliged to do at the time of the pandemic, at the time of the crown of the virus, when you were even alone in one, not short period of isolation. It speaks of your professionality and you inherited a man who wasn't that professional. You inherited a man whose work we had grudges and how, open questions that weren't small. All my colleagues talked about it. I would repeat myself if I were to start telling that story, but I wanted to warn you, and I was talking about it when Minister Matic was in the Assembly the other day, and that's about the harmfulness of social networks when it comes to our children. I remember that you also told us on the board, and it seems to me that again when my colleague Starcevic said you didn't get any answers from Facebook. But I think the greatest danger is, in fact, right now for our youngest on another social network called Tick Tok, on something that our children are literally victims of. I know it's not a problem that you can solve for yourself, but I know that there is both the resolve and the MPs and you and the executive authorities, and that we get in the way. Somewhere I think that following trends at all costs is not necessarily necessary, especially if these trends threaten your children to a good extent, and we have, unfortunately, I am now not going to deal with statistics, first of all not to blame someone, it seems to me not a small number of suicide cases as a consequence of inspiration precisely from that social network that is quite uncontrollable. I risk that people who are thrilled with "Tic-Tock" as a space for some self-reglame or even profit, I think there's also some possibility of profit when using these networks, accusing me of today of trying to degrade something, but I will accept any criticism, I remain in my position -- certain social networks need to be discussed in a way that they may not exist. The abuse of personal data, of course not, is what we all have awareness of when we even engage in such a kind of communication. On the other hand, they have an advantage. I say so from the position of someone who, as well as 200,000 Serbs from KIM or displaced from Bosnia or from the Serbian Krajina, the Republic of Croatia, may have found the only way to connect with all their fellow citizens and acquaintances, because that would be different. She's got her perks. Of course, you don't have an easy task. I know that abuses are always something that is best received in our people. We first accept all these monsters we don't need and if they were effective on other subjects, who knows where we'd end up. I'm stressing again, this Tick-Tock, in my opinion, I don't know how it works, is a network that should be examined fat and perhaps think about what and how it works. When it comes to Sanja Unkovic, the candidate you have proposed, you have the right to do so, I must tell my colleagues who have not had the opportunity to hear, to know and see, that it is a young woman who, first of all, seems to me since 2011, employed in the office of the Commissioner for Public Information, that she, apart from knowing this job and very dedicatedly doing it, has great ideas and enormous energy and, somehow, seems to me, enough training to be eternally grateful to you for the fact that you have shown her trust. I always respond positively, gender-patriotically, when women are in the proposal and they will never pass it, but I think it is a good move, because it stands that wing – when you choose a man, he asks – what I will be, and when you choose a woman, she asks – what I will do. Sanja didn't ask us what she was going to do. She told us what her ideas were, and she explained to us what the problems you're facing were, above all, because of this resolution of the problem. When I say that, then I think that if I'm not mistaken and you're going to correct me, I have the right to make mistakes, cases that happen in Vranj, in the far south, in the far north, sometimes looking for a physical presence, which is not an easy job for a man. It was a motive to use your right to guarantee you this law at all, to choose a deputy, but also to build these teams with which you will cooperate. There's Maria right, it's easier to report one such situation if you have at the bar the possibility of doing it than if you have to do it in writing or if you have to physically come to Belgrade or any of the major centres. As much as Belgrade is the most numerous city, I think that maybe the problems in rural areas are bigger and we're not aware of them, and maybe where we're going to improve the Internet signal above all, that we've brought or should just vote on, I think in this tide right now, a decision on a loan that will allow us to cover rural areas with a better Internet signal, then we'll probably put another number of people at risk, but, God, another number of children, which is an ever-increasing danger to me. I appeal to you to be initiators at the end of the line, because I know you can't solve the problem, but I know you can initiate it, and we can figure out a way to solve it together, and we can simply protect all of our residents from possible abuse. Another abuse is that, unfortunately, we often see that on these social networks, there are all kinds of frustrations that we can't possibly understand. Some are ruthless. I think that yesterday on one of the social networks I read an even precise message that Gordana Komic, a certain gentleman, died, which is simply some untreated code, some untreated disease. If so, then I'm sorry, but if not, then it's a serious danger, because it interferes more. The fact that you're a public life participant, even when you're wrong, doesn't give anyone the right to call you that way or inspire anyone, because we all have families that maybe even more sensitive than we are. In voting day, there's no dilemma that we'll support Sanja. I also said that on the Committee on Culture. I really wish her a lot of success in her work. First of all, I congratulate you on knowing that you choose a deputy among your associates. And what's very important, we're often accused of being on this line, on that, political or otherwise, Sanja doesn't have political biography, which means that you have no motive for being political, but strictly professional, as two professionals who will cooperate. I expect only the positive effects of your cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4514	I thank the People's MP, Snezani Paunovic. The word was asked for by the trustee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4515	Thank you. I want to thank you for all the nice words that are true and true, and that you have referred to here today and to look back at what you said, that you hope that I will be the initiator on the way to solving social media problems and endangering personal data on social networks. I'd be happy to do that. You've noticed, that trustee or any other state authority can't do it alone. As far as tomorrow, we will start to form one network, multi-sectoral, of all bodies that can help, to see how to protect the data of all citizens of Serbia on social networks, especially those who are the most vulnerable, which are at this point the youngest members of our population. I call on all the authorities to support the Commissioner, and the Commissioner will be a barrister in promoting that right to data protection. Just once again to look back at what you said, that's right. In fact, the surveillance that we have done throughout Serbia in the area of protection of personal data in such a way that our authorised persons, our inspectors, have traveled from Belgrade to all places in Serbia and travel and today as much as possible, conditioned by the Kovid pandemic, has shown that you cannot break up from Belgrade, that it is insufficient, for two reasons. On the one hand, he overburdens the capacity of the Commissioner, but on the other hand, more importantly, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are in an unequal position. And give them a chance that, if not exactly where they live, but near where they live, they can turn to the Trustee, either with a complaint, or with some request, a request, getting opinions, etc., give them a chance that what the citizens of Belgrade can already do, that they can. Thank you, everyone who's given me support for that. I hope so, and I am convinced that it will be passed through the legal norm and that we will then approach the realization of this to the general good. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4516	I thank the Commissioner. The word has a folk emissary, Ana Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4517	The President-in-Office, distinguished representatives of institutions, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are considering a proposal for a candidate for Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matters, and protection of personal data, a proposal for a significant function of an independent regulatory body. The deputy will share the same responsibility as the trustee. It must be objective, impartial but independent of other state bodies. He is a mediator between the public and individuals, different associations and authorities. The trustee, as well as his deputy, must respect the right to freedom of access to information, as well as the right to the privacy of personal data. I cannot help but look back on former Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic, who humiliated this institution and abused his post for political purposes. It is obvious that certain political parties have had an impact on his work, but also on the selective choice of requirements that will not remain locked in the drawer. I will remind you that Rodoljub Sabic was involved in politics on a daily basis, mainly tweeting. We had the opportunity to watch daily attacks and insults at the expense of President Aleksandar Vukic, as well as the head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic. The trustee institution eventually turned into a service mostly of opposition media and organizations. He served the daily list "Today", "Nina", "Insider" and, of course, "N1". Mr. Sabic seems to regret his former political function and for this reason we see that he continues to monitor political developments. However, we note that the lack of reactions to the boastful behaviour of Dragan Gilas towards a journalist who, by the way, only did her job and asked a question that did not appeal to this political and media tycoon. It's obviously very difficult to hide the truth about accounts in Mauritius and Switzerland and in direct transmission. Gilas forgot that silence is a sign of approval, in this case of confirmation and it is not easy to admit publicly for all accounts found in countries around the world, about numbers and not to talk, because that money was earned while he was on high-ranking and enormously rich. It's no problem to gain, but there's a big question here how Gilas got rich, and at the time the people of the Republic of Serbia were poor, he was out of work and on the streets, and he was the one who was setting up fate for them at the time, and he targeted the country. Serbian citizens have the right to know how those who have been entrusted to exercise power, but also, dear colleagues, dear citizens, ask themselves how morally it is from the place of trustee to tweet, trade information and run a hunt against the president, even under objective treatment. I will support Mr. Marinovic's proposal in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4518	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4519	The President-in-Office, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today, I will look forward, above all, to the proposal for a decision to elect the Deputy Commissioner for Personal Data Protection. The proposed candidate, as we can see from the biography that has been delivered to us, for ten years has been working with you, has been a ten-year experience, has been a graduate lawyer, and I am sure that this is quite a period of time that it shows its quality and willingness to do this work and I have no dilemma there, but I am also sure that it is familiar enough with all the problems and shortcomings that exist when it comes to protecting this right and in this sense I mean the inability of administrative execution of the trustee's solution, we have already talked about it today, but also on a growing number of cases of abuse of the right to access information of public importance, and perhaps these are topics which in some further work will be a little more detailed and debated. The very etymology of the word "private" comes from ancient times. In his part, Aristotle also spoke politics, or separated the private and public sphere. The ancient Greeks did so later. Then, the 1805 French Civil Code guarantees the right to privacy. So it's clear that this is about an institute that's been talked about long before we discuss it today, but obviously it was meant to come to a certain point of social maturity so that it could be discussed the way we do it today. I am therefore saying that privacy is in the form that we know today in law only in the XIX century, and in that sense, the most important international act that regulates it was the European Convention on Human Rights of the 1950s. My colleague Natasa had just talked about some practical examples of protection, i.e. violations of the right to protection of personal data, so I will look back on the legal aspect of this topic. At EU level, as is known, there is a General Data Protection Regulation and it came into force in 2018. How complex it has been to speak and the fact that a two-year deadline has been left for Member States to adapt to it, i.e. to include their legislation in the way the General Regulation does and, without any doubt, it has classified data on a person under unprecedented protection, i.e. put them at the very top of protection, and I expect that one day we will do so by putting it into one of the fundamental fundamental human rights, if I may put it so. Our Law, you know this more than I do, about protecting personality data to the greatest extent, represents a translation or adaptation of this General Regulation. It was adopted in November 2018 and it may be this very adaptation, which is to take the final decisions of the General Regulation itself, which is the reason for a number of discrepancies, when I may say so. I mean the discrepancies in terms of concepts, practices, mechanisms. These mechanisms and concepts are either not sufficiently explained in our domestic legislation or too general, so they create confusion at a time when it is practically necessary and applied. To this should be added the discrepancy of the provisions of all other laws dealing with the issue of the processing of personality data, which is what counterpart Bačevac spoke of earlier, and these are things that make it difficult to function in the law itself and in general the application of this law in the way it should be done. In order for all these shortcomings to be eliminated, I am sure there must be some synergy and interconnection between different institutions and bodies dealing with this topic each in its own domain. To begin with, it may be necessary to update, or bring in a whole new personal data protection strategy, but also an action plan for its implementation, because it is the only way to know whether this strategy has its own purpose, whether it is largely fulfilled. Then, we have a ratification of the convention to come. The Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents came into force on December 1st, 2020, and Serbia signed it in 2009. When all this is over, I am sure that our law will represent, and it is now, in fact, representing, but that it will then represent one big step in the field of privacy arrangements in the Republic of Serbia and that the shortcomings in the changes and additions that have been announced will certainly be removed. The tendency is that our law adopts the best practice from the EU when it comes to how it formulates only the right to privacy, or that we will adopt that preamble that we do not have now, which will put this right in line with unprecedented rights. I'll get some information. In the previous year alone, the Trustee received over 9,000 items, and the data tells us that so far only 13% of public authorities, including business entities, have fulfilled their legal obligation to appoint a person who will be responsible for handling personality data in the context of the segment in which it works. This is a very significant data because it essentially shows that there may be a lack of understanding of certain economic operators in this sphere in terms of the importance that personal data on each of us can have in every sphere of our lives. And lastly, I'd just like to mention that the concern of growth from year to year, when it comes to violations of this right, with as much as 80% of the complaints that come to you legally founded, is a worrying data. In the end, both us and Article 81. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement obliges us to bring our legislation in this context into line with it, and given the government's determination to go to the EU, I am sure that through the shortcomings that we have made today, it will come to the level that we deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4520	Thank you. The time has been spent, even in a minus. The word has a trustee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4521	Thank you. I must also say to look back at two segments of your discussion, in a positive sense, of course. There's one thing that's not about today. Today is not the topic of selecting deputies for free access to information of public importance, nor is the area covered by the Trustee, but you mentioned, not the first one, but you mentioned very well, I was the first to encourage discussion, because I said it was about amendments to the Law on free access to information of public importance which, in its very nature, will have a very big impact on the implementation, i.e. the protection of the right to protection of personal data, because the Law on free access to information from public importance, is in fact, except that it regulates free access to information, at the same time, the law governing the organisation, choice, jurisdiction, and so on, the Trustee. Since we don't have the trustee law, as we have the Civil Protection Act, it's at the same time the trustee law. And that's why it's very important, there's going to be these decentralisation provisions, and that's why it's very important and how it's going to go. What you said was that there is no possibility of punishing the authorities, at this point in fact no, formally yes, but for three and a half years there will be no changes such that the Trustee will again, I say, regain the right that he had until 2017, until the amendment of the General Administrative Procedure Act, to punish those authorities that do not act on the solution of the Commissioner, which says they are obliged to give information of public importance to the applicant. On the other hand, you've done, indeed, a more frequent case of abuse, that's what I have to say. This is one of the main topics and one of the main reasons for amending the Law on free access to information of public importance, although the topic should always be how to achieve the right, not how to prevent abuses. However, abuses have come, taken so many swings, and you can hear and read about some of them every day. You've probably all heard of a case of a veterinary station or a local community, and that, I say, small local communities, rural communities, where abuse of the right to free access to information of public importance, and all in order to gain some profits. I mean, we made a lot of suggestions, me and the trustee's office made a lot of suggestions. Amendment to the Law on free access to information of public importance, how to reduce, to minimise the possibility of abuse. We'll never be able to remove it completely, but to narrow it down to one, let's call it a bearable measure, although there's no bearable measure, but acceptable. As for the relationship between our Personal Data Protection Act, according to the European regulation, the protection of personal data, including the police directive, since our law is a mixture of these two European regulations, completely, you've done a perfect analysis of the situation, I don't know what else to add, we are grammatically in harmony with these regulations. However, you have well noticed that there is no preamble that explains a lot, which is even quantitatively larger than the very content of the regulation, and we do not have, in various terms, different relationships, which are the competent authorities that process for specific purposes etc., do not give an answer, and I hope that the amendments to the Personal Data Protection Act, although it is only 19 months, that we will manage to regulate it by changing it. In that sense, I've already had a meeting with the Justice Minister, and then there's a meeting of the Justice and Trustees' expert groups, and I think we'll agree to go that way. Thank you for your support for, let's call it reactivate or whatever, national personal data protection strategies. In fact, it will be the first time that life is inhaled, because it is written, but it has never been valid, because it is necessary for us to regulate this area in a full way, to protect these rights in a fuller way, and I say, only the first task, the first chronologically, because the deadlines impose the obligation, will be this analysis of the situation in all areas, an analysis of the regulations in all areas of life concerning data protection, which concerns data processing and their compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act, and at the same time the change of that law, in order to protect this right, fundamentally human right, in the best possible way. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4522	I thank the Commissioner. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. I'm sorry, I skipped the National MP Nina Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4523	Thank you, Chairman. Dear guests, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about a proposal to elect a deputy trustee for information of public importance and protection of personal data. In the Republic of Serbia, the Commissioner for Public Information as an independent institution was introduced by the Law on free access to information of public importance in 2004. By 2009, he only protected freedom of access to information. By passing the Law on the Protection of Personality Data in 2019, the official name of the body became the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. The very word of the trustee, as the name itself tells him, says that the person of trust is someone who is trusted to protect this true respect. The trustee is someone who intercedes between public, individual and public authorities. It's an independent state body, free of any direct or indirect influence and cannot ask, nor receive orders from anyone. The Personal Data Protection Act, Article 73(2), stipulates that the Trustee has the right to an alternate. The Deputy Commissioner shall perform the duties of the Commissioner in the event of his absence, the expiry of his term of office, the discharge, as well as temporary or permanent prevention. The Commissioner proposes for his deputy a person who meets all conditions for working in state authorities. The Commissioner, as well as the Deputy Commissioner, is elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Committee on Culture and Information. The term of office of the Commissioner, as my head of the parliamentary group said, takes seven years, and that may be one of the longest mandates, with the possibility of another election. During that period, he is obliged to submit an annual report to the National Assembly. For the Trustee, a person with a recognised reputation and expertise in the field of protection and promotion of human rights and that person must have a high moral integrity because he uses highly sensitive information and personality data in his work. The identity information shall be any information relating to a natural person, regardless of the form in which it is spoken, for whose name or on whose account the information is stored. The protection of personality data is provided to every natural person, regardless of nationality, residence, gender, race, national and ethical background and citizens have so far sought information about things and areas that are important to them to them in order to achieve their right. Over time, the requested information became increasingly delicate and concerned privatisation, internal affairs, judicial reform, endangerment and environmental protection. It is interesting that other authorities, political parties, trade unions, lawyers and other entities also addressed the trustee. The number of applications submitted for the exercise of rights on average is 30 to 40,000, and the number of complaints between three and four. Despite Serbia's citizens wanting to be well informed about the protection of personal data, they still do not know enough about their rights. Nearly 40% of citizens say they don't know if their personality data was compromised, each others think they haven't, while 12% say they have. Given all the risks facing today's world, it is necessary to organise and implement education on how and where citizens can protect their rights. I would also like to refer to the biography of the proposed candidate, i.e. candidates. Her biography shows the professionalism and results that have been achieved by advocating her long-standing work in the field of data protection and the Commissioner himself guarantees us a choice, i.e. a proposal from his deputy. The SPS parliamentary group believes that the work of the Commissioner, as well as his deputy, will justify our trust. Therefore, in the voting day, we will support this proposal. At the very end, since I didn't speak yesterday, and for the sake of marking the 22nd anniversary of NATO aggression, I need to honor this occasion with all the victims who were on the defensive of the country. And our heroes were guided by the words of Emperor Lazarus - I do not decide whether I will enter battle by the power of attack, but by how much sanctity I defend. May they have eternal glory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4524	I thank the MP Nina Pavicevic. I'm sorry I almost skipped you. Now the word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4525	Thank you, Chairman. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we are considering two decisions, and that, above all, is a proposal for a decision to elect a Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Data Protection and a second decision is a proposal for a decision to elect a Judge for the Economic Court in Zajecar. As far as the first decision is concerned, the choice is Sanja Unkovic and you, Your Honor, have said that she has been in the service for 10 years, that she has extraordinary references and I will certainly support that proposal, because you are working with her and I trust you, because you have shown for this time, since we chose you to do what you should. I'll be back later on to your predecessor. As for the new candidate, i.e. the proposal for a decision to elect the judge and the Business Court in Zajecar, it is Mrs Ivana Dimitrijevic. Also, you said he had extraordinary references. I don't interfere with your choice at all, and I'll support it. Now we're going in a row. As for your branch of government that is independent, it is indeed an honorable profession and up to 98% are honorary judges. However, there is 2%, among other things there is Judge Majic, who I won't talk about today, because there are a lot of speakers who want to talk about today, but I'm going to look back at him and his work and his membership of DS, which is why he's doing what he needs and what he doesn't need to do, mostly what he doesn't need, but I say 98% works honestly and honestly, and that's why it's good for you. As for the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, you are the successor of Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, who was the first trustee for information of public importance in 2004 and, of course, lasted a long time. He did a good job at first. But then he turned to politics. The first of his reaction that was not good is to defend Mr. Sasu Jankovic, who at the time was the Guardian of Citizens, it is not done, because a man from his cabinet was doing a campaign for the president, if you remember, such a thing is unacceptable. You are an independent institution, and so you should remain and not just you, but also the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for Gender Equality. You report to us here, and you should certainly work for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and this country, not from the cabinets of campaigns for the president of the state. Something like that never happened, and I hope it never happens again. I have to look back on Mr. Shabic's work, since he was first. I can't really not say that what he did wasn't good. So, no one who works against the state is defended, and secondly, my esteemed colleague said that Mr. Sabic also received from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office charges for violations of several laws in 2016, which is inadmissible. That's not what you do. I must also commend him. You know, two years ago, Mr. Shabic, unfortunately, fell on the Green Wreath and hurt himself. The man had a broken arcade, he had a cut on his cheek and in five minutes in all of Serbia it occurred that Mr. Vukic and Mr. Stefanovic were installing processes, that it was an assassination, that a man was attacked thanks to Mr. Vukic. You can imagine Mr. Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia, who works from 16 to 18 hours, who doesn't know where he's going before, is in Vranj, Piroth today, then in Subotica, watching the roads, the fast tracks and the rest, as he calls Mr. Stefanovic and orders him to have one of the three officers come along and trip people around the Duke of Mihajlov. Shame on you, you disgraceful one. There was a very honorable Mr. Shabic who said it had nothing to do with politics, that someone accidentally pushed him, because there's always a crowd, we all know, going through that Green Wreath, so we know what it looks like, and that's very good. However, hundreds of lies have been constructed, all of today's opposition has struck Mr. Vukic and Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, which is inappropriate, which is not done. You can imagine what a fabricated lie is, so I don't think kids do it today either. It's embarrassing. Then you have statements, sir, let's go from him, because it was very correct of him, he said – someone in Sremska Street from behind tripped and I hit my head in the sidewalk so I have to say that I'm sure this is not the result of a politically inspired attack, which has nothing to do with the brain. Imagine if we were to go and trip from the SNS opposition. Please, we don't deal with them at all, except when we talk about thieves. Everything else - work, order and discipline, we work, we build this country. Then there was Zoran Lutovac, who says – although he is sure that this is not the result of a directly politically inspired attack, it can be, be careful, then this is the breaking news, it can be the result of politically generated verbal violence that is being promoted from the top to everyone who thinks differently. So then Sanda Raskovic Ivić, it surprised me like that, the Rodoljub Sabic was attacked, not a miracle, because everyone who thinks otherwise is Aleksandar Vukic and the advanced feathers draw the targets, this is the lynch. Dear Serbian citizens, we only deal with the opposition if we talk about thieves, and they are as many as you want. We have just received information that Mr. Gilas has not only capital in four countries, but in 17 countries 50 accounts. It was 619 million, so we'll see what it is now. That's what we're talking about, and our president is building roads, bridges, railways, he's working for this country. Just yesterday, when it was this sad day, I'm just not sure that someone mentioned it, and I'm going to look back on that, about the victims, let's give them the easy land and give them the mention, but nobody mentioned that more than 30,000 people were missing. That's what I'm going to end up with, because it's very earthquakeous, but what's really annoying is that none of the opposition thought of giving any meaning, anything to say, to show up -- people, it was like that, and so be eternal glory to them, it's our heroes, our heroes. No, that's inadmissible. I could talk about everything like this for a long time, but there's plenty more speakers. I'm sure you'll do your job with honor and honesty, Commissioner, and also our judiciary that I've always believed in. In voting day, I will support the motion of both of these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4526	I thank the MP Ljiljana Malusic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4527	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Commissioner with an associate, respected members of the VSS, we are facing today a proposal from the VSS on the choice of a judge who is elected for the first time in office. I truly believe that you have done your job professionally, securely and honestly, and have proposed to this high-level home the best candidate to choose for such an important judge position. I want to get to know the citizens of Serbia, that is, reminding me of that famous 2009 reform conducted by the DS together with its coalition partners. Let's just remember who was the senior DS officer back then. Dragan Gilas. It is the same man who today is making political alliances with one goal, which is to return to power and continue the robbery of Serbian citizens. It's the same man who has over 50 accounts in 17 different states. Respected citizens of Serbia, the 2009 reform aimed at leaving more than 800 judges, over 100 public prosecutors and assistants out of work, where they remained on the street. This cost more than 44m euros to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I want to say that the municipality of Raška from which I came was not surrounded by this 2009 reform. On the first of January 2010, the main court in Rasko lost the status of the primary court, was returned to the judicial unit system, which resulted in a large number of judges taking the blame along with their colleagues in the prosecution being out of work. A large number of cases went to the jurisdiction of the King's court, which resulted in citizens of Raška municipality having to travel over 80km to achieve their constitutional rights guaranteed. To be different from those who have implemented such reforms, it also shows that, thanks to the responsible policy of SNS and Aleksandr Vukic 2016, after 136 years in Raška, the building of the Criminal Court was opened. There are honest and honest people working there today. I want to say that the citizens of Serbia rightly lost confidence in the judicial system that year 2009, that the judicial system was the cancer of our society's wounds. Thanks to the victory of the SNS, President Vukic, citizens of the Republic of Serbia have regained confidence in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. I, along with my colleagues in the voting day, will support the proposed agenda and I will vote in favour of this agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4528	Thank you. The word has a national MP Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4529	I thank the esteemed chairman, distinguished guests, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us decisions on the choice of judges who are first elected to this post, as well as the proposal for a choice of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. I hope that they will perform the function of security and honor that we choose them to do. The judiciary as the third branch of government is independent and must be the pillar of one rule of law. It's one of the priorities of the SNS, because unlike the previous judge's government, we don't choose on the basis of their party books, but based on their biography. Personally, I believe that these institutions are very important in a modern European and democratic society like Serbia today. Any citizen of the Republic of Serbia can contact the Commissioner for the Protection of Citizens or the Commissioner for Public Information and thus protect his rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. I also believe that these independent institutions should react when information is made public and when someone draws a target at the head, too, when they bring out incorrect information in the media that is mostly under the control of a tycoon in our country, when lies and lies are brought out about the President of the Republic, about all of us sitting here. Also, what has been in front of all of us for days is offshore companies and accounts all over the world for Dragan Gilas. So far, there are speculations that there are 17 countries in the world, but the question is, what is the exact number of accounts that this man has? We have seen that investigative journalists have come up with data that he owns over 6.4m euros in his accounts in Switzerland and in Mauritius, at an account in Hong Kong of about 3.3m euros, but it imposes a logical question – what will one man, honestly, as he is today, hides so many millions all over the world? As they opened the accounts and traded through their offshore companies, Serbian citizens are somewhat familiar thanks to investigative journalism, but behind the entire octopus and the whole of the machinery stands only one name, one person, one man Dragan Gilas and his personal interest. Today's newspaper, as we have a chance to see, writes about how Gilas gave his financial partner Dragan Solak 440m dinars, or nearly fourm euros. There is a logical question - is it normal for someone today in Serbia to give almost four million euros? The only normal and logical explanation for this is tax evasion and money laundering. Then the money is transferred through offshore companies to secret accounts in Mauritius, Hong Kong, Switzerland, etc. Given the fact that tax evasion and the concealment of capital tax is an act that is very punishable under the laws of the Republic of Serbia, I hope that the competent authorities will deal with it in the next period, and above all the prosecution, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Tax Administration. With that money that they took from all of us, with that non-payment, by paying the projects that were paid while in time the authorities were several dozen times more Dragan Gilas is paying his employees in his political party today, he is paying his employees on his media today who are constantly trying to destroy the reputation of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, as well as every member of the SNS. It is absolutely clear their intention to bring down such a power to get the money, the projects and everything else they did while they were in power. Through such tentacles dozens of accounts, the islands can't be said that the mail man would enter such a thing, unless he has no intention of hiding something or if he didn't get to it unfairly. How independent and objective these media are is the fact that one day they encourage people to the streets, to violence, to protests, to measures against closure, while the other day they appeal to follow the measure. On this occasion, I would appeal to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to follow the recommended measures, to be vaccinated, because the vaccine and vaccination is the only way out of all of this. As you can see, the Republic of Serbia has done very well in this whole crisis. You see we have secured vaccines for all citizens who want to be vaccinated. We have the possibility of selecting vaccines that many citizens in Europe can't even think. We have two joints of hospitals that are open only to the coronal disease, and besides all this, that despite all these problems that have hit us due to the pandemic that we do not stop and continue to speak and the fact that we have continued major infrastructure projects, that foreign investments do not stop, but rather we have announced and we expect that, in addition to the difficult economic situation, we have the best package of aid and economy measures, but also society. We introduce social dialogue, we care about environmentalism, we care about culture. We try and make sure that no segment of our society is affected by this pandemic and that it has any consequences. For this reason, I urge you to take a closer look at the statements made by opposition leaders and people representing themselves as opposition politicians for the protection of the interests of the entire society, and you will always have constructive support for your work. In voting day, I will support a set of decisions with my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4530	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Rajki Matovic. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4531	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the VSS, representatives of the Commissioner, respected citizens of Serbia, are present today two very important decisions and one concerns the proposal for a choice of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information, while the second decision concerns the choice of a future legal holder and this is for the choice of a judge in the Privred Court in Zajecar. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that the National Assembly from session to session continues with good practice, and it is primarily focused on efficiency and transparency. Efficientness is primarily reflected in the fact that all proposed laws and proposed decisions are in front of MPs immediately after the expiry of the law established from the day of the proposal by the competent institution, while transparency is primarily directed to ensure that all these proposed laws and proposed decisions are debated in a very detailed manner in this House. It is this way that the National Assembly shows a very high degree of responsibility when it comes to selecting human resources, while at the same time ensuring smooth functioning of institutions and doing things in accordance with the law, as is the case when we talk about two important decisions. First of all, by selecting the Deputy Commissioner for Public Information, we ensure the smooth functioning of the institution and also creating a field to achieve even better results when it comes to protecting personal data. The deputy was proposed by Ms. Unkovic Sanja, and reading her biography shows that she graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade and came from the ranks of employees, given that she founded a working relationship with the Commissioner in 2011. This fact goes in favour of the proposed candidate having a very rich experience on personal data protection affairs, but I would also like to say from this place that the trustee institution has done quite a lot in the past year, and above all I want to say that the number of inspection controls in banks and insurance companies have been drastically reduced to which Serbian citizens have the most complaints, so today these institutions only collect the most necessary data. It is also an indicator of good work and practice of the trustee institution and that the company's world eminents, such as Viber, Google, Jandex and others, have appointed their personal data protection representatives, and this is precisely what shows the clear intention of the private sector of the state itself to take serious personal data protection issues. When we talk about the proposed decision on the future holder of a judicial function, we must first of all say that the candidate is proposed by the VSS after the law of the established procedure, which has been found to be a professional, worthy candidate and is qualified to perform such an important function. As in earlier cases, when we talked about future holders of judicial functions, I must first of all say that we are, or that we are talking about people who are expert in their field. When we talk about today's election and when we talk about 2010 elections, we create a clear picture of what all the judiciary was going through until 2012. While during DS 850 judges were left on the street and out of work and the area of justice was systematically destroyed and destroyed by DS, since the arrival of SNS to power above all, the area of justice is an area that is independent and objective. It is, above all, a fundamental social role, which is to protect the rights and freedom of citizens. Also, today's judiciary is not an area where different experiments can be conducted by unfulfilled politicians and so-called politicians. legal experts left behind by only the far-known 2010 reform of judges. When we talk about justice, I would like to say that the judiciary today is achieving its fundamental social role, which is precisely the third branch of the government that is aimed at protecting citizens' rights, because citizens' rights are just the most important and they paint a clear state, and that is one orderly system, one orderly society, as is the case today. Today, the judiciary is not an instrument for disciplining those who are not close to the party, as was the case by 2012, and today the rulings are not passed by the judge reading between the front pages of the daily press in the morning. Today, judges are elected in accordance with the law and results, and are not elected by the municipal and city boards of DS and their integrity, speaking the verdicts and not the opinions of local officials and the president of municipalities. The reason is very obvious. Why am I saying this? First of all, then DS leaders fearing for their political and business decisions, which they then made enormous wealth, wanted to implement judicial reform in order to ensure that they were appalled by any form of criminal responsibility. First of all, they were forced to implement judicial reform so as not to reveal the different marifets that brought them properties at the most exclusive locations, which brought them nearly 600m euros and brought them restaurants and the most exclusive cars. During the reforms, judges who had made progress even in two degrees were elected, and it was a practice to progress from degree to degree. Judges were elected whose results were far weaker than judges who remained on the street after the reform, but those first, fortunately, had clear political support for the then DS. Those judges who remained on the street after the reform, had to explain to their family and children that the term "miss" that was then in the decisions of the Supreme Council of the judiciary at that time was not a punishment, but a reward. The reward is because their honor, their knowledge and their experience have not been replaced with the DS membership card. When we look from this distance, ten years after the reform is implemented, we have to ask the question -- why did all this happen, and first of all, we have to look for a reason for individual political officials to become enormously rich. Why am I saying that? First of all, the last days and the last weeks we have faced an affair and the uncompromising wish of the President of the Party of Freedom and Justice Dragan Gilas to hide his enormously acquired money in secret accounts in the white world and to avoid any form of responsibility from the authorities. First of all, he wants to hide the money he acquired from Serbian citizens and to avoid answering all of the prosecution's questions. I ask a question from this place - why in 2010 did the reformed prosecution not invite Dragan Gilas to answer all these questions? I also ask the question - were these prosecutors, at that moment after the reforms, more important cabinets and more important new official vehicles than to call and examine all these allegations and to examine those cited in the Verice Barac report, in which the robberies of Telecom, RTS and other state-owned companies were decidently explained? Finally, I would like to say that we must never again allow any reform of any system such as that until 2012, after which more than 500,000 of our fellow citizens remained on the street, after which 850 judges were out of work and after which Serbia was in the last place to provide healthcare. We must never again allow individuals to become enormously rich and to make that money on Mauritius and other exotic islands, while we are trying to make Serbia a better place to live for all our citizens. We must not allow them to return to power, because that moment Serbia becomes their Serbia, and our money becomes their money, which will obviously serve them exclusively for flights to the Maldives and Mauritius. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4532	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4533	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the promoters, honourable MPs and fellow MPs, I think that in this meeting we are seeing each other for the second or third time, in this place we are discussing different proposals, here today on human resources, and I think that even though you are not MPs, you can see what the impulse of Serbian citizens is. All that the MPs are discussing today, as far as you may think it may not have anything to do with the human resources that are in front of us today and how it relates. The people who sit in this tide and who are chosen by the citizens above all are their services and we are the messengers of the people, we convey what the citizens ask us, we convey what their problems are, we convey what is bothering them, and together with us here when opportunities are given to you and us, we discuss these problems, and we discuss them. At the very beginning, I want to say that these human resources before they are chosen we can trust you on the word and their biographies, but you will agree with me that the real judgment on their work can be brought only after a while and when we see how they have shown themselves and whether they have shown themselves in their places and in the places for which they have been chosen. SNS policy will never be for anyone to be satanic in advance to be criminalized just because it suits someone at a certain point. You see, that's the fundamental difference between us and the people who are trying to get back in power today. Here are these suggestions today that are ahead of us, these personnel solutions in one part of the opposition, representatives of the former regime, and led by Dragan Gilas, whose name is repeatedly repeated here, these people automatically fail and they know nothing and are not worthy of these functions and have no right to be in office. Why? Because they will be voted by this parliament. It is some practice that has been introduced since the fall of the DS regime, where anyone, however qualified, whatever reference there is, however good a result is behind it from any area, if you support the Serbian government policy or just praise something that the country of Serbia is doing at a certain point, automatically passes through a warm rabbit and gets a label I don't know what kind of bot or whatever. It's a very big problem in our country, and that's what Dragan Stojkovic Pixi went through, just because he attended the laying of a cornerstone for a Japanese factory. There were actors, artists, singers, and anyone who dares, I deliberately stress the dare to support his country's politics. I can't help but look back, and I'll try to be brief, because I've discussed with you all about this information and these things in the previous period, all of what the previous fellow Members of the people have been saying. You know, today we're picking some judges here for the first time in their office, and we're going to pick a deputy for a very important function, but from the point of view of the citizens who may not be the most guided of what that means. Information of public importance, data protection, you know it can usually draw citizens' attention to other things, so they legitimately wonder whether, in your jurisdiction, it is not both data protection or privacy or whatever it is we want to define further in the next period and President Alexander Vukic and his family. I know what your jurisdiction is, your website says it's taxing, but here you see, yesterday I met a neighbor who asked me to ask you why you didn't advertise when the attacks on President Alexander Vukic's family took place. You don't have it in your jurisdiction, I know very well, but if we already have that data protection and privacy and all that, I think and I will listen to his request, that you, as a competent institution, too, are looking to make a proposal to the National Assembly, so that perhaps we can extend those powers, not what is in your jurisdiction to oversee, and as far as the law and control of the data that the state is doing, we can see how we can protect the privacy of some public officials, even if it was the president of the state. If we don't want him, even if his family and his son are not three and a half years old, and he was more in the media than a lot of people on the political scene in Serbia, and only because he's Alexander Vukic's son and only because some people wanted to kill him morbidly. Consider this and see it as the most well-intentioned advice and above all something that citizens ask us, what we often have or do not have an answer to. Then when we don't, we take it as a suggestion and a suggestion, so here we are today to you. As far as the judges are concerned, I believe these people will be able to stay on the side of the law because it's their job, because it's their duty. That's why they ran. But what I want to tell them, too, but first of all to you today, they must be brave, and you must stand up for protection. Today is a very big problem if any of the judges today or tomorrow or within a month, the year comes into a situation where they find the subject of the richest man in this part of Europe. You see, investigative journalists who dared to question what accounts are all over the world, not just in Mauritius, have received criminal charges. They are threatened to be finished, some others are threatened by the closure of the editorials, and we cannot get an answer to the question whether we really have that account in Mauritius or not, when it comes to Dragan Gilas. It's not about Mauritius anymore. There's Hong Kong now, there's Switzerland. According to some data, but for some time, we have many of these destinations and a lot of accounts to hide, now proven, more than nine million euros. The question arises, are these people ready to be satanic as journalists, as well as us politicians satanicize and criminalise members of the former regime, just because they're doing their job? Here we are talking about people who will first step into office and protect the interests of Serbian citizens. But you know how? On the other hand, they will not only have opponents in the face of people who commit crimes either within a criminal organization or in any other way sin over the law. Here de facto will also have opponents in politicians who feel that these judges are not doing their job well. I'm gonna finish up slowly. There's a lot more speakers behind me. You have to understand that citizens' trust in the court and the judges, in the prosecution didn't arise today, that's because of that disastrous situation, the 2010 reform, which is already being talked about extensively and the situation that in one day you wiped out 1,000 people. The result is that the judge could only be elected if his wife is a member of DS or he, and she gets a qualification from the DS municipal board – by pie, she won't object much. So these are references whether someone's a good judge or not. The second reference is, he was JUL's, but he repented, now he's ours. There's a third reference -- he likes to steal a little bit, but we can keep him under control. Now, this has led to the situation that Serbian citizens do not trust the judge and the judiciary. As the SNS came to power, things began to change in a drastic form, in every respect and sense and in every segment of our lives and to change for the better. I just want you, first of all, to have each of your next personnel solutions or any draft law that we make here, supplement or whatever it is in the next period, or maybe even a decision, driven primarily by the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we are elected here to worry in their interest and to represent their views and desires and needs. So I hope that in the next period we will successfully cooperate, as my colleagues have said, you will always have support in us as long as we are on the same line, and this line is a better future for our citizens, our children and generations to come. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4534	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Nenad Barosh.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4535	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed representatives of the VSS, Mr Marinovic and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda of today's session of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who knows what time we have a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office. Now to be clear, I absolutely support this way of electing judges by the MPs as a representative of the people in the highest legislative body of our country, that is, in Parliament, because this is the only way to ensure how much independence in the election of judges. If we leave the choice of judges alone and exclusively the VSS, I believe that we will get the strongest body practically in the state and that the entire judicial authority will be in the hands of that particular body. Now, given the procedural matter, that is, the process of selecting candidates who are being delivered to the MPs for the vote, we can point out that there is indeed a great and decisive impact on the VSS, while we as MPs are practically left with nothing but to choose the proposed candidate or not to choose him. The High Council of the judiciary, or the Commission of the VSS, has not always given the most poor candidates in the past. Just a little over a year ago, the Commission delivered candidates for the election, I think, the President of the Courts, where one of the candidates had practically only one vote of support from his own collective and his own vote. Then, one of the judges who claimed to be the president of the court, who was a VSS candidate, was, believe it or not, under the measures of the criminal police administration, under suspicion of co-operation with persons from the crime scene and of receiving bribes. Again, another candidate was also a member of the DS's main board, which is not compatible with the Constitution and the law. On the privatisation of the 2009 judiciary and the Prosecutor's Office better and not to speak, because then I will take up the time for all the remaining speakers, but it was a really terrible thing that the Constitutional Court has, in good luck, annulled the VSS decision and ordered the taxpayers, practically citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to pay really big damages. What is also a fact, and we have had this opportunity today to see when we are discussing certain candidates for the election of judges who are first elected to a judicial office or candidates who are elected to the seats of the President of the Court, is that we MPs are practically at least talking about the candidates themselves, and that is the essence of the debate and these decisions. Then the logical question is, why is that? In my personal opinion, the reason for this is insufficient transparency in the very process of selecting candidates. So, to be honest, the procedure itself is public as the law requires, and the work of the VSS itself is also public, as well as the judicial function, and it begins by publishing an ad in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as well as in one of the media that has coverage throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. However, from the moment of arrival of the interested party's application to the very presentation of candidates in the Republika Srpska Assembly, we do not have any practical information on what is going on with the application. We don't know who signed up or who the interested faces are, what their biographies are, what their competences are, their skills and the like, whether they're decent enough or not. Today we have a choice of judge who is first elected to the office of judge in the Court of Commerce in Zajecar. I am now asking the question, how can a citizen or a resident of Zaječar know, as an extremely interested party or a person, who of the candidates, or who applied as an interested person to be a candidate for the President of the Court? Perhaps that very citizen of Zaječar has some information that will indicate the unworthyness of a registered person to be a candidate at all. He doesn't know how he can deliver it unless he's just looking for access to public information. Not even we as MPs, from the moment of their application to the very arrival of that item on the agenda, or the election of candidates, have insight into the biography, or into all those documents that can best simply represent a particular person as a candidate and possibly a judge. Also, in order for an interested person to be a candidate for a judge at all, it must have completed the Law School, it must have passed a judicial exam and have a certain, of course, experience, but also be professional, qualified and worthy of such functions. This is precisely the expertise, competence and dignity established by the Commission of the High Council of the judiciary. It's a good procedure, I don't have anything personal against him. So that expertise is determined by multiplying the average rate by 10, by having a year of study, if you're done in four years, with 100 points. It's not said if someone's finished, say, college before the deadline, whether it deserves some point more or not, and every six months of extended study, for more than four years, it decreases by 10 points. It just doesn't indicate whether six months or six months have begun. What is a practical problem is just an assessment of practical work under the terms of expertise. The Commission of the High Council of the Court of Justice may assess in a fairly wide range of points or points, from 40 to 100, depending solely on their opinion and how they understood certain practical knowledge, i.e. reports from working organisations, courts and other persons. It may happen, for example, that from this very opinion of the High Council of the Judiciary, someone who has completed college within four or maybe shorter years, who has an average score of 10 gets 40 points, for a certain reason, and that, for example, has a higher number of points someone who has studied 5.5 years or has an average score of 7.5, and has received 100 points from the Commission. It is not worth talking about, about competence and dignity, it is all in the hands of the Commission, and there are no clear definitions and tax-related things about how a candidate is actually being stabbed. What is also symptomatic and what might be some kind of attention, is that most candidates who come before the MPs are elected judges who for the first time become judges or for the presidents of the courts, is that they come, minors, exclusively from the ranks of the judiciary. We are at a committee session, i.e. I asked the question informally and received the answer that simply the percentage of interested persons is higher, meaning persons coming from the judiciary compared to those coming from the state administration or from the economy, etc. But I doubt it's that much higher. I believe that this way of selecting judges, which is foreseen by the laws, the rules of the High Council of the judiciary, is adequate, but I also think that it must be much more transparent for any interested person to see the full procedure, from the moment of application of the candidates to the interview, to the results of the evaluations on the test, etc. Since I come from Vrsac, not Zaječar, I can only assume that I believe the word that you did the right job and that you chose the best candidates. If you say we believe your word, we'll believe it, it's not a problem, just take it somewhere in some legal act. I hope that in the future and that in some way, my speech will have some effect on simply providing this very public-delivered biography, all those documents that indicate that it is an adequate candidate and that in the future as MPs, when this topic is on the agenda, we will talk exclusively about candidates and, of course, about certain daily-political events that have been marked only by the judiciary, which you, as the High Council of Justice, can possibly influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4536	Thank you. Just to remind you once again that we'll be done with this debate at 3:00, then there's a break by 4:00. From 16am to 19pm, asking parliamentary questions to the government's representatives are headed by the prime minister, and then voting on agenda points. John Jovičić answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4537	Just for a little while. Dear counterpart Barroso has made the choice, namely, the election procedure for candidates, but for trainees, not judges. This is not in the jurisdiction of the High Council of the judiciary, but in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice who, with the help of the Judicial Academy, test candidates and await their success and years of completion of the university. We can't during the election of these candidates simply pin years and length of the internship. It can serve us as an additional criterion and parameter. So, we just have a rulebook that's in accordance with the Constitution and the law and by which these candidates are practically chosen. We've got a test, it's an evaluation of training and expertise. We also have a so-called dignity, which is assumed by the employers' opinions on the quality of the candidates, where in most cases it is about judicial associates who are the most represented, which is normal, for two reasons. First, because it's really a large number of these court associates, they're the most interested in being judges. Secondly, we really pick them at the most, because that's normal. Believe it's about 80% of the associates, and the rest of the faces are 20%. As for providing some data and highlighting such data on the site, it would be a question for a colleague of Marinovic, if they pointed out such data on the site, they would practically get into trouble with this protection of personal data. It could simply be very symptomatic, or very problematic. So that rule that we have, which is practically brought in, is something that we respect and always make sure that everything we do is in accordance with the law. Believe me, the proposal you received today, and this is a colleague for Zaječar, was voted unanimously. So that's where the chairman of the Justice Committee, who is your MP, and the minister of justice, comes in. We're simply doing the most transparent thing we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4538	Thank you. The word is Nenad Barosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4539	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting for replication or further explanation. Just so we understand I don't have anything personal against a candidate from Zajechor. I simply cited the example, that as someone who comes from another city, I have no information and information about which person is concerned, except from the biography you provided us, which is, of course, enough to make a choice. I say, this procedure itself is a little problematic, again in my personal opinion. Maybe that's, you're right, a question for the Commissioner for Public Information. Simply, is it possible to allow a certain number of personal data or at least biography, which we now have the opportunity to see, to allow themselves to be highlighted in a certain visible place of the interested public? Again, full support for the candidate from Zaječar, who I will absolutely support in the voting day, that is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4540	Thank you. MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Marinovic, do you know what was the greatest range of your predecessor, Mr. Sabic? Here, I'll tell you. The greatest reach was to present a report to various NGOs or investigative journalists as soon as the National Assembly, or the general secretary of the National Assembly, to various NGOs, or to researchers, as well as to the revenues of the MPs, or to be delivered as soon as possible to the price list from a restaurant that does not belong to the National Assembly, but located in the building of the National Assembly. There they discussed and distributed everything and everything, about how much the MP spent money from the Republic of Serbia's budget for coming to the sessions using his car, how much he spent on hotel accommodations, went even to the point where the distribution of how much they spent on public transport went. So he didn't want to travel with his own vehicle, didn't want to sleep in a hotel, used public transportation, railways, or bus transport. And that was the darkness. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, MPs have been thrown out laughing, mockery, one climate has been created that this job we do for every conviction, under every moral, professionality, anything. It was the largest range of Mr. Sabic's work in the period until 2012. It was not only done to bring down the dignity of the National Assembly and of each of us people's messengers, it was done for something else. It was designed to draw attention first of all to how our citizens live in Serbia during that period during the former regime and to draw attention and interest in the abuse and robbery that the former regime had. Now, if by any miracle it were in your place now, Mr. Sabic, if we were to mention the accounts in Mauritius, he would say that these are data that belong to the protection of a person. That would be the reaction, and that would be the way it would be. Do Serbian citizens have the right to gain insight into the business of companies led by mayors, MPs, for ministers I don't know if that's what they do? I think that, anywhere, here in Serbia and anywhere in the world, if they're doing any work. Because if that were possible by 2012, then we wouldn't have so many billions of euros from Serbia. Dragan Gilas is just one of them, and we will see how much this will eventually turn out, which he robbed from Serbian citizens, avoided paying taxes and out of the country. Now I'm just going to go back to the choice of legal holders, see how it's all tied up. For the second year now, Serbia has, in the right sense of the earthquake, been having the affair over the annulment of the first-degree conviction for the crimes of a minor's promise signed by Judge Majic, who serves as an appeal judge. If we look at how much such a verdict is, which is absolutely against all those laws passed by the National Assembly, what consequences can it have? I will give an example in Serbia's current social life. Serbia is currently rocking the affair that there are grounds for suspicion that certain persons who mentors and professors have committed one of the most serious crimes, I find the most disgusting, according to their protégés, and if the prosecutor found that there are grounds for doubt and initiated a trial and a first-degree court found guilty and that such a verdict falls into Mr. Majic's hands, you know what he would write, and so could any judge, because he established some kind of case law? It is that the judgment that condemns those persons is annulled, because he is willing to insult all our artists and artists and to say that this kind of behavior in this esnaf is widely accepted. Maybe in another movie industry, but not in this one of ours. That's the practice Majic made. I ask the question – when will he come here on the agenda for us to ask him: “What are you doing? “ not to have peasants on fictional televisions, which do not exist in Serbia, but registered by various world destinations in order to avoid paying taxes and avoid liability for what they do, but contrary to our domestic laws? Then there's another one, we have a custom, I don't care if he gets angry, Pokemon. You know, these are some abstract characters in the form of former Governor Shoskovic, who says – that Serbia would make economic progress and develop to have a legal state. I agree. I'm just asking a question -- why didn't you say that, former governor, when you were governor, why didn't you do it when you were governor? Why didn't you tell Sabic – Sabic, Gilas brings money from Serbia to exotic destinations. That's when you kept your mouth shut. Why didn't you warn Judge Majic, who was the persuasion of the reforms implemented by the former regime, judicial reforms? Don't happen to think of such judgments. What he did not say was who brought it out of Serbia, which is the information that can be published and belongs to your work, which was brought out by legal and natural persons from 2008 to 2012 from Serbia five and a half billion foreign exchange reserves, and that neither the dollar nor the euro was brought into Serbia. That's one very interesting piece of information, because all that money's been embezzled. Why did I call this Pokemon? Well, because he was involved in spending the five and a half billion euros and he kept quiet about it. Someone got rich, destroyed the state, poored the citizens, then I could remind you, it was a very high inflation, people were losing their jobs because of this very high inflation and the great oscillation of the dinars, the companies were closed, and then he told us about the rule of law, and the biggest thieving and destruction was happening while he was governor. That's when he kept his mouth shut. What didn't he say, it's information of public importance, that the report on Agrobanka's business was falsified and that he and that Milojko Arsic forged it? How much did we pay for that? Over a billion euros. What allowed the behavior of Bojan Pajtic and the team around the Vojvodina Development Bank? What's the damage? Between 350 and 400m euros. Is that information of public importance? They did, and it's not how much an MP spent on a bus. But they entertained us, both us and the citizens, and they made one of the biggest robberies in the region, if not in all of Europe, because this behavior, how they experienced the state, as private property, you can't find anywhere in Europe from World War II to this day. They're trying to do the same thing today. Here, in some tabloids that are close and funded by the former regime, I don't want to mention them, but I have the right to take a critical look at their article. Here again, the MPs drag us into some of their own, let's say, political goals, but they go so far as to call the MP a parrot, that the MPs don't have their brains, that they don't know what they're doing, that it's just an orchestrated campaign against the former regime. Well, it's not orchestrated if you stole it, it's not an orchestrated campaign against the former regime if you came to Serbia with 75,000 euros, and you're leaving 700m euros. It's not orchestrated, it's not normal, in any society. We will support every step of yours, and when it comes to data protection, but also the availability of information of public importance, that anyone who has become enormously rich while exercising power must explain how he earned money, must explain whether he has achieved a conflict of interest, whether he has achieved trade by influence or not and, most importantly, whether he has paid taxes or not? Because whoever pays the tax doesn't hide money in Mauritius like Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4542	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4543	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable representatives of the trustees, distinguished representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on today's agenda is a joint search on two points, the first point is the proposal for a choice of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, for the area of protection of personal data, and the second is a proposal for a decision on the choice of a judge to be elected to a judicial office for the first time. I'm going to use my time to talk about both points of the agenda, or both points of the joint single search. First of all, when it comes to the motion for a decision on the choice of a judge who is first elected to a judicial office, it is important to remind that the holders of functions in the judiciary must be competent to perform such functions. Judges must possess a high level of knowledge, on the one hand, and skills, but on the other hand, certain moral qualities that qualify them to perform these functions. This is what we are discussing today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and here each of us can express its opinion and that is what is good. What is not good is that in some previous period judges were elected at certain local and municipal committees of different parties. This is what I've been talking about, and I mentioned this the last time, and I think it's important that I mention it again, given that this is about the Democratic Party's municipal committee. We all know that this party is also a day-to-day branch of other smaller parties, but what I'm saying is a fact. Why do I say it's a fact? Because the Association of Judges of Serbia has provided the list of "Politika" this letter, which clearly shows that certain judges are competent or satisfactory for the performance of that function, and that these candidates are closer to the Democratic Party in Vlasotin. What is even more illogical is that the document also shows the signature, i.e. it is certified by the signature and seal of the Municipality of Vlasotince. I am convinced that there is greater legitimacy for discussion on this and on other topics for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia than for the municipal or local committees and the Democratic Party, but also for any other party. The candidate proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary, we had the opportunity to make sure of the complete documentation, it is a young person, according to his biography an ambitious and capable person who is currently a judicial assistant at the Privredna Court in Zajecar, and is proposed for the choice of a judge in the Privredna Court in Zajecar. According to the opinion and sessions of all judges of the Court of Commerce in Zajecar, as well as meetings of all judges of the Court of Commerce, candidate Ivan Dimitrijevic meets all the conditions prescribed by the Law on Judges for the choice of the Court of Commerce in Zajecar. So I'm convinced, given that these opinions are the way I said they are, that our candidate today meets all the conditions. To the new judge, if we choose her today, I want her to work primarily in accordance with the law, then in accordance with the interests of the Republic of Serbia and in the name of the people, to be brave and persistent, and that is what is very important, given that trust in the judiciary began to grow rapidly in 2009, after that famous 2009 judicial reform, when 850 judges were out of work. Despite their basic work of the judge, not only our candidate today but other judges, they must work to restore their trust in the judiciary. I will remind again, and I will remind absolutely every time, the application of the principle of the division of power implies and the existence of an independent, impartial, responsible, professional and effective judiciary. When it comes to the second point, the second point of today's search, common and unique, is very important and concerns the proposal for a decision on the choice of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection – for the protection of personal data. In order to better inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following this session, I will remind you that the jurisdiction of the Commissioner has been deployed on two levels, primarily protecting the right to free access to information of public importance in accordance with the Law on free access to information of public importance and under two, protection of personal data and supervision of the implementation of the Personal Data Act. While preparing for this session, and thank you for that, I also had the opportunity to read the report on the work of the Commissioner for Public Information and I think it is very important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to mention, but in short, just a few things. In 2020, the Trustee received 9,218 items and you completed the procedure in 9,474 cases. I'm guessing this case is about those items you've found as a trustee. I would particularly like to highlight the information that you shared with us at the session of the Committee on Culture and Information, which concerns the work of the Commissioner at an emergency time. You then received, which is, of course, logically, less, multiple objects are open than in the previous period, i.e. in the same period of the previous year, and since 594 items you have successfully solved 485 cases. You've been telling us all the difficulties you've had and I'm glad and I absolutely understand your need to, given that you were the only signer in that period, that we today choose your deputy, so that there might be at least one more person, of course, in accordance with the law, who has the right to sign and that would make it easier for you to work. When it comes to the candidate, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, we had the opportunity to first get acquainted with the candidate, read her CV and complete documentation. The confirmation of the working relationship of candidate Sanja Unkovic shows that Mrs Unkovic has been employed in the Commissioner's service since 7 February 2011. So it's a person who's competent, just because he's been working for more than ten years in the Service of the Trustee, but not only that, it's a person who knows the system, the very institution of the Trustee inside. This is very important and what I would point out for the citizens of Serbia, I think that the previous colleagues did not mention it, is that the section of its duties was directed precisely at monitoring the application of the Personal Data Protection Act and we are today choosing it for that particular area, so it is again competent and for that part. All these allegations assure me that, as I said, our candidate knows the trustee system on the one hand, and on the other hand, and equally important, he knows the capacities of the trustee institution and these internal interpersonal relations and how much he can provide and who is good at what is good and so on. I hope that will be used in the right way. What may be personal to me and most important is exactly how you are and with which you are enthusiastically at the session of our committee where we first discussed the candidate, and today we were talking about your candidate and it encourages me to support your proposal today. In voting day, I will also support this proposal as well as any other proposals we have discussed and also invite colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4544	Thank you. The last MP reportedly, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Shabic is a former trustee. To the current Commissioner and Protector of Citizens and their deputies, I recommend that they do everything that Rodoljub Sabic and Mr Jankovic did not do. Don't do what they did, and do everything they didn't do, they were more concerned with the politics and the candidacy of Mr. Jankovic himself, with the great support of Rodoljub Sabic, says they were not an independent body or an independent body. They mostly did our job, not their business. As it worked, I can describe it with his words. Let's just say, my teeny-tiny was complimented and written in public -- that lying liar, he lied again at the National Assembly session. This performance was followed by my true information, and you can verify that he and Mr. Jankovic received a specific project from the British Embassy, which was £80,000, or close to 100,000. So, regardless of what it was about some model of law that took care of something about human rights, which they were supposed to do by their own business, but mostly, since those unfortunate pounds, as General Simovic, have arrived, they have turned against the government and Jankovic and Sabic. At that finding, he said it was true, but they spent it there and there, but that's why he made me a lying liar. So we got rid of Mr. Shabic. As far as the judge is concerned, the judges are independent, but they are not divinely independent, they are not independent of the law. Judges should punish the guilty and protect the innocent. Most of the time, they're more dangerous than the law. Most ordinary citizens are more dangerous judges because they work the other way around. Some judges protect the guilty and punish the innocent. The last case with Big Trouble is confirmation of what I was saying. It's not only that they didn't punish the act in time, it's that they obstructed justice, and the judges are. They helped to repeat those acts. So if they'd punished their time of trouble for what it took to punish him, if they hadn't let him go with a stick, he wouldn't have killed a few people afterwards. It is the role of justice, not only to punish what has been done, to punish not an act, but to prevent it from happening again. In the case of the Great tribulation, it is very clear that there was obstruction by the judges and that the law was not applied the way the judge should do it. My regret, first of all, about Majic, not to repeat myself, the Ethics Code states that judges cannot participate in political debates without talking about his alleged independence. He took part in the shows, on multiple "N1" TV shows "Nove S", took part in the political show Olje Bećkovic several times. Now I ask you, did he violate the Ethics Code to which judges are often called? Imagine now that we MPs enter your courtrooms and begin to judge. Would that be okay? What noise would you raise if my MPs, 250 of us now went to 250 courtrooms and started doing your job, what would you tell us? You would call for independence, your role in the law, law enforcement, constitutionality and so on, and now imagine what it's like for us to watch individual judges deal with politics. They're taking part in political shows, doing our job, and they keep saying they're independent. I think it's time for the court to start carrying out justice. They absolutely can't implement it, but they have to enforce the laws, in which case we won't have any trouble, we won't have all kinds of mumps, we won't have so many mobsters, we won't have so many murders, we won't have so many robberies if you punish the guilty, and we'll protect the innocent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4546	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask whether authorised representatives or someone who has not used the right of Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he wants a word now? No, I don't. Thank you. I hereby conclude, pursuant to Article 98(4), a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 3 and 4 of the agenda. I thank Mr. Marinović, Mr. Jovicic, Mrs. Djelic and Mrs. Kovacevic. Come back to us again. I'm setting a 60-minute break. We'll continue at 1600 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4547	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Prime Minister, the honourable members of the government, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16:00 to 19.00, according to Article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At first, let me just say it one more time - the presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. Following an answer to the MP's question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare a response of no more than two minutes. There are no further comments from members of the government afterwards. No replicas and references to the breach of the Rules of Procedure are allowed in the course of asking questions. As you know, the order will be established according to current practice. The word will first be received by the MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs, and then by the MPs of the least according to the largest group of MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to asking MP questions. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4548	Dear government representatives, my question has been addressed to the Minister of Culture, and it concerns the amendment and addition of the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, which has been in the ministry's drawers for three years. Former Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic has drafted the law and the law should help protect Cyrillic as our identity letter. I don't know if you've learned that since 2008 ISO standard 639/2 everything written in Cyrillic has been in Serbian, and everything written in Latin is in Croatian. So that's how it's applied to g-mail and Facebook, and Instagram, and that's how our cultural heritage is lost. Anyway, I think we need to get this law in the process as soon as possible. When the German occupation force entered here in 1915, it first banned the Cyrillic. When the Independent State of Croatia was formed, it first banned the Cyrillic and then began killing Serbs and others in Jasenovac. Today, officers of the Independent State of Croatia know how they treat our letter in their country. So, we have every reason to protect the Cyrillic and I don't understand why the ministry is waiting and why the ruling majority won't let that law into the assembly procedure as soon as possible, because under the current law, which has been waiting 15 years to be brought into line with the Constitution of Serbia, by narrow interpretation of the official use of language and letters, we are in a situation that only state authorities and state organisations are obliged to use Cyrillic. So, we need these amendments and the additions to the laws that are in the ministry drawers to expand exactly, and that we finally get into a situation so that we can seriously ask that the Cyrillic letter is applied more in Serbia and that it is more protected, because it is a question of our identity. If we don't know how important Cyrillic is, look at how our enemies treat us and then we'll know how important it is. We must also remember that it was announced in 2017, by the leader of the Serbian Progressive Party and the president of Serbia, the Serbian People's Protection Declaration, which was to be turned into the protection of the Serbian language and Cyrillic, that it was to be done together with Republika Srpska, but at one point it was gone, as this law, for the simple reason that the SNS leader said he wanted to have as broad international support as possible, not as widespread as international condemnation. I don't know which international community he meant, I know that neither Brazil, India, China, or Russia, none of them will harass us about it, and these others are not the only international community. So, in any case, I don't know, I know about Dodik based on how he's been acting so far, I don't know what the head of the SNS is and the president of Serbia is afraid not to let that declaration be passed yet, and I'm also interested in why the Ministry of Culture keeps this bill in the drawer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4549	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4550	Thank you. Your Honor, your question is in place, only the questions contained do not answer the truth at all, because you have missed the address you are addressing. The Ministry of Culture and Information cannot be a legislator of such a law. Or we can stick to that saying that "the paper suffers everything" so that any ministry can write any bill. So in the department of culture and information drawers, there's a lot of stuff in this ministry's history and I can find, but this bill doesn't exist in the Ministry of Culture and Information. I can only teach you that such a bill can only be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for consideration of our legislation. I know that there have been some initiatives before, by the minister before me, in which the possibility to pass such a regulation was considered. There were also public debates, controversy, but not the official one, which goes after the bill, because the bill was never passed, but in public like this. There have been many objections to the introduction of some legal terms that do not otherwise exist in the legal life of the Republic of Serbia. When something is proposed and adopted, we must have something serious, which is in line with above all the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and you have quoted only one member, and then other laws that we use, and they simply clash with the possible adoption of such a law. I agree with you, I travel through Serbia a lot, I see anomalies, that Cyrillic is like our letter in full defension and what we need primarily to pay attention to is that state institutions use Cyrillic and Cyrillic letters, of course, along with Latin, I would disagree with you as you said it was Croatian, but we speak Serbian, we use Cyrillic, but as far as I know our people, it simply doesn't distinguish when they read some Cyrillic and Latin text, and you can't say it's Croatian if it's written in Latin. I can't agree with you, because I'm using both equally, and I don't notice when I'm going from Cyrillic to Latin. I have a great problem with your communication and an attempt to offend anyone who is involved in politics in our country and who has earned great trust in the citizens of Serbia and is not said to be the leader of the Serbian Progressive Party, but is said to be – President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic or the president of the Serbian Progressive Party. And malignancy in asking questions, leave it for some other places. If you really want to hear someone's answer, then ask questions like that and don't try to be a little bit interesting to a certain part of the public so someone can say, well, great that you said he was a leader. He is not a leader but is the president of this country, who was voted by nearly 60% of the citizens who went out in the previous elections. If you insist that the ministry deal with the initiative to pass such a law, I will obey you as an MP, because I respect all the MPs of this Parliament and we will start to create some public debate on the need to define the real role of the Cyrillic in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and work together with the legislation that they propose some law to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4551	Thank you. National MP Vladan Glisic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4552	Dear Ministers, taking into account the good faith that what you're saying is true, I won't doubt it, so I believe you're right, but I need to look back at the fact that we have had serious intellectuals and serious public figures in public who have said that such a proposal exists. Where he went missing in the meantime, what happened to him, we'll leave someone else to determine. As far as the story of the law goes, it concerns a little bit of the declaration and everything that puts us in a situation that is too difficult to think about when we think about a part of the international community that might have a problem with the fact that the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter are being used as much in Serbia as possible. On the other hand, I quoted the ISO standard, which does not depend on us, whether it is Latin, Croatian or Serbian. So, one of the Croatian lobbyists has already managed to achieve that in these parts of the international community, which I do not appreciate very much, but has its political weight, he believes that the Latin text is Croatian. So we have a problem with that, and we can't play now, so we don't know it happened to us. On the other hand, as far as these things apply to the position and opposition, I have not insulted anyone. The leader is not an offensive name, but I think he describes the president of your party well, and I think that your relationship with him is also well described in that word with all the historical deposits that the term leader has. You can't say it's offensive and no one can say it in language and term that it's an offensive term. So, it's not mine to be unlicensed, it's not mine to be kind, it's not mine to be someone to shine the bust of your leader and your president. It's mine to be critical, so sometimes it might be sharper. It is important that I remain within the limits of decency, which I always try to be and, in that sense, it is necessary in this House that someone be an opposition. There's a few of us. I am the only MP of the opposition of the Serbian people, so in this sense it is normal for you to expect that my comments will be sharper both to your president and to your party leader and to your government. As far as the president of our country is concerned, I try to respect that title because it existed before the president of your party was elected. There will be when he comes down from that place. It may even be dignified to respect all citizens of Serbia and to leave the post of president of your party while the president of all of us who are not members of your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4553	Thank you. The word has the vice president and Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4554	You haven't asked me anything yet, but how did you ask me to answer that question? So you're right. For ISO standards, you're absolutely right. A lot of cases in our past. Our neighbours were much faster and more organized, and the truth is now that everything printed on Latina is simply being subdued under the heritage of Croatia, and not Serbian, and it has been turned to me by Mr. Vladimir Pistal as it is done in America, in the congress library, and that we simply have to pay attention to it, because imagine if any of our greats, and this happens, Serbian writers get a printed edition in Latin, it is being subdued there as a Croatian writer, or as a Croatian literary work, and you are partly right there. You didn't listen to me very well. Please listen to me when I answer to you to have some kind of dialogue. The initiative did exist, but the law does not propose the Ministry of Culture and Information. I said there was a public controversy. I didn't do the intellectual categorization. Either you are or you're not an intellectual. So, there are no more visible and unseen intellectuals, so I have to correct you. So it's either an intellectual or not, but I don't know who's giving that intellectualism grade. Maybe let the public out? The declaration is an extremely serious thing, how serious it is to run the state, so it is necessary to measure well what would be positive, and what, in some other sense, would bring this declaration and it is not as simple and easy as someone looks at a bench like that to people who run a country that is always under some smaller or larger blows on the side. Personally, I respect the institution of the president, the president of the country. I would never say that the president of your former party is the leader of Sapic, but I would say that the president of your party, because once in the history of our civilization, the leader was something very ugly, pesorative, and something that had negative consequences all over the world, and I continue to ask you to continue asking your polite questions and that you call the president of a party the president, especially when you address the president of a country. The former president did not leave the post, but lost the election by former President Tomislav Nikolic and so he left, and Tomislav Nikolic did not run, so I do not know who went as well as you describe it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4555	Thank you. Let's move on. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4556	Dear President of the National Assembly, Honored Vice-Presidents, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Prime Ministers of the Republic of Serbia, Honored Minister and Ministers, at the beginning I would like to highlight the government's undisputed results in the fight against Kovida-19. I want to point out that we are as state leaders when it comes to the number of vaccinated and revaccinated citizens and we are proud of the fact that our citizens have four vaccines at their disposal and that everyone has the freedom to choose whether they want to be vaccinated. I would especially like to highlight the economic package of measures we adopted here in the National Assembly, which concerns the most vulnerable parts of our society, our pensioners, as well as all citizens and citizens, especially when it comes to helping the economy. I would like to point out the commitment of this government, the Prime Minister and her cabinet to all open issues and the openness of the House to us MPs, to all open issues that we have solved. I refer the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. When can we expect a drop in the crisis staff measure? So I'm interested in short- and long-term projections. I also want to know what the economic indicators are, what are GDP projections, how are exports, and are any of the businessmen trying to abuse this situation to fire workers? My second question was addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture. I also want to point out that when we have established this government, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party have made it clear that it is very important that we have the Ministry of Agriculture, because I come from a part of our country called Sandzak. It's a mountain end. Our villages are very dissociated and I would like to point out that the village of Zabrnica near Priboj is 30 kilometers from the center of Priboj and in order to reach that village you must cross the border. Karaula is 40 kilometers from the center of Prepolje, as well as the Komaran region. Villages of Pestarska visorna Delimeđe, Kladnica, Raskovice, Cvetanovice are also 50 and 60 kilometers away and it is very important that today we have a ministry that is directly concerned about our village, that these people must have basic living conditions, because someone can't go 50 and 60 kilometers every day, to lead, I don't know, their child, their grandchild in kindergarten, in the infirmary, etc. So, the particular question - how do you plan to overcome the problems between rural and urban and what concrete actions do you plan to implement and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4557	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4558	Thank you. Good afternoon, honourable Members of the People. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, first of all, I would like to say, People's MP, that I am pleased to see you after we have last been here and answered the questions of your MPs, as we have agreed, and I think this is a real example of co-operation between the executive and the legislative authorities, our respect for the MPs and this House and our openness to hear both your comments and your criticism and your suggestions and how we can further improve the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I want to tell you that my door is always open to all the MPs, to see how together we can keep pushing Serbia in the right direction as fast as we can. As for vaccination, here, let me also inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you MPs of the state of vaccination. The data was about, like, half an hour ago, 45 minutes before I left the government for the Assembly. So, at this point, we have vaccinated 1,356,000 people, approximately, of which we have re-vaccinated 913,000, and I hope that in the next few days we can move into that number of millions of re-exploited people, which is really extremely, extremely significant. We have even now introduced the third category by which we are following our vaccination and by which we will also decide within the crisis headquarters and on measures, the reduction of measures, the tightening of measures, how to balance well between economy and health, but also the mental health of the nation. This third category is immunised citizens, i.e. in principle fully protected citizens, and we practically count the number of citizens who received it, so three weeks after the re-reaction and such citizens at this point we have 564.663, so, about something about, slightly below 10% of the full-age population. So, we're not doing bad things, but every day is important, and we really need to do everything we can to speed up further vaccinations, talk to people, communicate how important this is and fight. So, at this point, 913,000 re-vaccinated citizens, but if we count that citizens are protected about three weeks after the recovery, that's 564.663 citizens today. We still have about 10,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia who report daily via portals and e-Government for vaccination, which is still very good, but what I do know is that there are many, many citizens who either do not know or want to, do not feel comfortable applying for vaccination via the e-Government portal or through contact centres. As a result, in more and more local self-government, we have open points for mass vaccination, for people to come without calls, for additional vaccines to arrive, which is an additional five hundred thousand Sinopharm vaccines in early April. Also, on April 5th, we expect another 106,000 phaser vaccines. I expect that indeed, in all local self-governments there will be open points for mass vaccination and without reporting, and that, with the support of local self-government and, of course, the ministry of state administration and local self-government, which has indeed been extremely activated in this matter, we will enter every village and ensure that everyone who wishes to be vaccinated, that it is also vaccinated, mostly by the vaccine they want. As for the economic package of measures and aid to the economy, therefore, you know that we have adopted this third economic package of measures. Overall, through these three packages of measures, we have singled out eight billion euros in direct support for businesses and citizens from the Republika Srpska budget. So we are one of the 10 best countries in the world, so one of the 10 countries that has given the most to support not only the economy, but also direct financial support to the citizens, and this is seen in our economic results, because we have one of the best economic results in Europe, not only in terms of GDP, or that we have had a minimum GDP drop of about 1% in 2020, but also in terms of Serbia, I think, the only country where the salaries, in which pensions have also grown, in which we have increased the minimum labour price by 6.6% together with the economy. Inflation is stable, public debt is under control, and this cannot be praised by many other, no larger, no richer Western European countries. So, the package measures and help the economy and gives citizens its results. I would also like to stress that our meetings and talks with different industries and sectors within the economy of the Republic of Serbia continue, so we already have additional meetings with those most affected tomorrow. Some are looking for additional advice on how to use funds from the Development Fund, some about how to use the guarantee schemes we are working together with economic commercial banks, which are once again guaranteed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is a huge direct support for our economy. Some just want to work. They don't want any financial help or support, they just want us to try to make a plan together so that we can open up our economy, what they can expect and what they can hope for, because people just want to do. Some are asking us to extend our working hours, which are currently between 20 hours and 21 hours, depending on which branch of industry is at stake. We are trying, indeed, to invest both our time and our energy to hear everything, to listen and to support our economy together in these difficult moments. So far the first quarter is going, to knock on a tree, well, something a little bit better than we expected. We don't want to be too optimistic. It remains an extremely difficult situation, especially difficult in the EU countries on which our economy is lying, both Germany and Italy. You have a months-long lockdown, so complete closure. Of course, the economy suffers, of course by reducing both purchasing power and the appetite of the purchasing population. It's up to our economy. So we can't be too optimistic, but so far everything we can do is going very well. We had a slightly smaller fall in January than we expected. Again, in January 2020, there was growth, if I'm not mistaken, something over 6%, so January 2020 was so strong that we were really expected to have had a fall, but we had a much smaller decline than we expected. The industry continues to grow, you can see that recovery. It's really something that encourages us. We have investors who continue to invest and build plants and open plants. Just recently and a cornerstone for the big Japanese investment "Tojo Tyres". We have another announcement of a major Japanese investment in Novi Sad. We had the opening of a new plant "Continental" that is expanding further because everything they have already done in Serbia and what they are developing in their research and development centre in Novi Sad will now be produced in the Republic of Serbia. That's an incredible extra value. But when in such a difficult time they continue to invest German and Japanese investors, there is no better signal that Serbia is a stable, safe, strong country and a good perspective ahead. But we have to keep working hard every day and, I think, getting harder, because these are moments when we can make up for what's been missed and jump faster in moments when some others are lagging behind. So, we have ambitious plans. We'll see what the first quarter is like. It looks a lot better now than we expected, but it's a challenging year ahead of us. As far as the measure is concerned, I have to repeat, we follow the situation literally every two hours. We also monitor the number of newly infected and the percentage of newly infected compared to the total tested and individually local self-government and the number of hospitalized and hospitalized, unfortunately, and the number of deceased and we try to look at what measures they can be in relation to all of this. I repeat, there are three things we always have in mind when we think about measures. The first thing is, of course, the health of the nation, the protection of life, protection and support of the health system of the Republic of Serbia and health workers of the Republic of Serbia. The other thing is business. The economy must work, for people to have a job, to have something to feed their family on, to know that there is life after this crown, but also to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because the fight against this corona of the virus is extremely expensive, extremely expensive. That's why we have to have a budget inflow. The third thing is, of course, the state of mind of the nation. You see some other countries where people are truly disciplined, but where even total closure doesn't give effect anymore because people just can't take it anymore. So we're trying not to make it happen in the Republic of Serbia, trying to find some balance between these three points. I have permanent meetings and constant communication with the medical department, thank you and them, trying to understand, try to find a compromise and agree to compromise even though their job is to represent the strictest, strictest possible measures. I'm hoping we'll be able to drop the measurements next week. At this point, it seems that our numbers are stagnating, that our percentage is stagnating. We had 5.226 newly infected today, which is about 30% positive compared to the total, which is a huge percentage, a scary percentage, but still the percentage that stagnates or slowly falls from last week. I think we're inoculating. If we hadn't succeeded as a country, and thanked President Vukic for his help, for his support in the acquisition of vaccines, if we hadn't managed to get this many vaccines, if we had such a well-organized immune system, we would have over 10,000 infected today. Look what's going on in other countries. So, it's going well, believe me, every day I think about when we can give in to measures, but at this point, it's still the most important thing that we can do to support our healthcare professionals. For over a year, they haven't had a vacation, they can't see their kids, they don't know how much time they'll spend with them, they don't know when to work, when to shift them. They really need to feel the support of all of us, so we have the economy in mind, but now they're the most important health workers, they suffer the most. Here, I promise you and everyone in Serbia, the citizens and the economy, I'm thinking about it, but right now, I'm asking you just that we all take care of discipline, measures, vaccinations, vaccine applications so that our healthcare professionals and non-medical workers who work in cove hospitals feel like we really understand what they're going through for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4559	Thank you. Just to add one piece of information that's in that so-called today. The red zone in Batajnica and our colleague, National MP Aleksandra Marković Pavlovic, who volunteered, so this is a contribution to the fight against Kovid. I would only like to hear from Milan Krkobic, before I give the word, to ask the MPs not to answer, but a list has already been established. The list is after Samir Tandir, Shaip Kamberi, Branimir Jovanovic, Life Starcevic, Elvira Kovac, Djordje Milicevic, Milimir Vujadinovic, Ugljesa Markovic and Aleksandar Mirkovic, until we reach 19.00 hours. The word has Minister Krkobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4560	Mr Dacicu, Mrs Brnabic, the honourable MPs, the honourable MP, thank you for asking. If you'll allow me to evaluate him, although the minister has no right to judge him, he's here to respond. The question is specific, directly and I would say right. That's the question behind which people from Banat, from Plandišta to Bac. That's the question behind which the people of Kladov are, but so are those of Baja's garden. That's the question behind which the people of the Shop are, but also from, as you say, the area you call Sandzak. We'll officially say Zlatiborski and Raški administrative district. You won't be angry. Of course, you've already suggested a real key answer. It's a partnership between Serbia's urban and rural parts. More than 40% of people live in Serbia today. Our primary task of this government and future governments is to work on this particular urban and rural partnership, but not just to work out, so we can think of occasional rural parts when the crown takes hold, so we have blocked borders and then we don't know where we're going on vacation. It is a matter of annual holidays that is very important, but there are far more important issues for this Republic. It's one of these. I'd like to point out the so-called plan here in the first place. The Leipzig Charter, signed in December of last year, 27 European ministers signed and defined the city's sustainability in Europe by 2030. What does that mean? The same problem bothers them as we do. What are the solutions? The solutions are, above all, the precise definition of certain legal attitudes, the binding norms, but what do they commit? They make a commitment to what's key. It's a transfer of funds from the urban part to the rural part. It's the key to everything. We can talk forever, but it all starts and ends with money. Therefore, the urban part which, in the heritage of raw materials, good ideas, good talents of people coming from rural areas, has the obligation to transfer some of that profit to the rural part. So your question now is concrete – how come someone 30 or 40 kilometers from the center doesn't have a dentist, no pharmacy and not counting? I could count for hours, but we'll stick to it. There's the answer. It's this partnership, if we define it in a valid way, if we define the funds that will go from certain centres to border areas, we'll allow these people to negotiate, it's basic, to decide and to plan or, firstly, to say, plan, so when they plan, they decide. So that's the whole initiative to finally put the local community in the center. If you'll excuse me, you mentioned these paths, you mentioned all of this, we need to be clear at the state level in the next period, and I would like to remind you that the Investment Plan of President Alexander Vukic provides for the allocation of five billion euros, be careful, gentlemen, five billion euros for five thousand kilometers of local roads. Three billion for the construction of water and sewerage south of Sava and Danube. I'll go get Serbia. This is one of my suggestions and members of the government and the president. We'd have to perform a little more transparently, so people in the local community know which roads will be done, when and how. It is nice to have MPs, so they stand up in the Assembly for their end, but we will not solve the issue of rural development if we have a strong MP who will succeed in the election. What about those who don't have such an MP or have no contact? It's essential that we have one concept, completely transparent, visible, and that people have precise solutions. In addition to what we talked about, these new legal solutions will, in my opinion, include a new territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia. This is also important for the citizens of Serbia. We today model a territorial organization that we have, it's a 1965 model. All the European countries that were, let's say on that side, where we were, 2004, 2008, Slovenia, Croatia, the Czech Republic, fully applied a new model of territorial organisation. I expect that on these constitutional issues, when it comes to order, we will launch a broad, real public debate, to see what our model of the territorial organisation of Serbia is, most impoverished, what is most appropriate to us. So, not now Krkobic or anyone will or someone from Europe or us. When I say "Sandzak" or "Buch" or "The Shop" we want to build new municipalities. It's not the point in new municipalities, it's the point that people in these environments are unimpeached, self-necessary, planning and deciding. Of course you'll say where the money came from? Of course, we're coming to a crucial point, which is to carry out an adequate transfer of funds. That's the first part. You asked me specifically - what are we going to do? We treated four large groups of questions. The first one is related to existence and sources of existence. The basic thing today, especially in young people, is the question of regular safe profit. If they have a regular and safe income, there's a chance they can decide to stay and live. That's the first one. What's a regular and safe profit? It's family land in the country, you agree with me. It's a family land connected to a cooperative. They're old, they're new trades. It's small family businesses, it's rural tourism. These are the forms of existence we have to work on. I don't know if Minister Nedimovic is there, he could speak much wider about the measures the agriculture ministry will take. They come down simply to a certain type of subsidy. What is it that the Serbian state is prepared and how far apart to help the Serb host, the host in Serbia, to be precise? The goal is that this hectare of our farmland that today rejects 1,000 dollars in the future approaches the Dutch model of 24,000 or at least 17,000 Danish. We see where our options are. A second set of issues that are crucial, these are infrastructure issues, I was just talking about them. There's a lot of resources coming in, I repeat. We need to be more specific, we need to be clearer with plans and more transparent. I mean, first of all, the plumbing, the sewers, the local roads, the Atharic roads, but I'm also thinking about the current. A small number of people in Belgrade today know that the current in Serbia varies. A small number of people know that there are villages where people tell me a term -- they plant bandits, so they put them themselves. This is not a criticism, this is a picture of the real state so we can just change it to make the right moves. So, we want the voltage, we want the IT connection that's going to be available, the cell signal. These are some things that are crucial to the issue of infrastructure. The third group of questions, if the finance minister lets me, this is important for him, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4561	There's nothing the finance minister allows you to do, you're in the assembly, you're not in the government session. I'll allow you, but please finish quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4562	So the third group of questions is about the area of social standard. It is, above all, health care, education, all forms of social standard necessary for the life of a local community. If we're talking about health care, the introduction was just dealing with the Corona virus, let's see what our primary health care is, and how ready we are to provide in these first lines of rural areas adequate health care. The fourth group of issues that are crucial, will be of particular interest to you, these are issues related to the cultivation of the tradition of cultural identity. Cultural identity is something we have to work on specifically. Every place, every end in Serbia deserves special attention. It should be respected, and we should raise those personalities to the pedestal. They must be the basis for fostering cultural identity as well as the letter that MP Glisic spoke of. Right, we have both Latin and Cyrillic, they're in use. Language is part of cultural identity, but we have to cultivate that part of identity and give it personality. Therefore, in the next period, we will strongly support the manifestations of cultures that are just emphasising the personality of a particular end. Why am I saying that? When we say the personality of a certain end, I mean the economy. It is extremely important that we brand certain products, let's say – that and that area is geographically protected, that and that area represents the jewel of this country and simply send a message to customers or users of services or people who want to visit it, to deal with rural tourism or similar activities. We've got big business ahead of us. We need a lot of knowledge. We have it – the Academy Committee for the Village of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. We need a desire and a commitment, and we need a lot of money. That's why I was talking about the finance minister. We need a lot of money for this sort of thing. I'll finish with one clarification. I recently followed journalist Bosko Jaksic. It was an interesting thing. East Germany and West Germany united after the fall of the Berlin Wall. Five thousand billion euros were allocated over a 30-year period for the integration of East Germany. Today almost 58% of the people in question in East Germany say – I am still a second-class citizen. Among the 500 leading German 26 companies is from the east. It's a long-term expensive process and requires in the end that we're all on one side. There's no opposition here. We must be all on the same side defined or slow, but surely the villages of Serbia will disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4563	Thank you. Does Mr. Tandir want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4564	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your response. Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive response. I would like to point out that the conversation we had with the Prime Minister and I was aimed at all the open issues that we have delegated to carry out in the work, to resolve them, and it was not only about my Bosniak people, but about all the citizens and citizens, and that's about the purpose of both this Parliament and the MP, as well as the executive authorities. As for the second set of questions, my question, we mentioned multiple times the infrastructure, I think that's the key word, and my question concerns whether Milos the Great Highway will be built by December, as planned, to Požega? So there's no economic development in that part of Serbia where I come from, Sandzak, without building a highway? Some delays are announced in the media. Is that true, isn't it true? Yesterday, Minister Momirović, since he is not here, the question is for you, a very quality discussion, how many of our citizens and citizens are following this Assembly, I received two e-mails from two of the local community presidents, one is Milosev Do, he is Ilija Svicevic, a Serb, and the other is Kacevo, Mr. Jamaludin Hajdarevic. They are interested in the same question, how many citizens are turned to life issues -- what will happen to access roads on the highway when it passes to Dugi Poljana, for the municipality of Prepolje, Priboj and Nova Varoš? Is that planned, how it will be implemented, and they're interested in this old highway across the Milosevic Valley? That's a question for the Prime Minister. The second question goes to the Minister of Education. I was also asked by citizens and citizens of Novi Pazar when it comes to the selection of directors of the "Djura Jaksic" elementary school in the village of Trnovo. They sent a memo to the minister. They sent a letter to the Assembly Committee complaining that the school’s employees had no secrecy of voting. I wonder, what will the minister do, did he get a memo to honor these people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4565	Thank you. The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4566	Thank you. To confirm, the promise of the contractors is that the Milos Veliki highway to Požega will be completed by St. Nicholas on 19 December this year. We're opening that part of Cačak - Požega. Big deal. You know that we are working in parallel with this and editing the Ovčar-Cablar ravine which is indeed the pearl of Serbia and we want to show the citizens that we are working in parallel with things. Let's not be late. If we are already moving traffic from the Ovčarsko-Cablarska gorge thanks to the highway that we will immediately arrange this as an exceptional tourist and natural destination, the area of exceptional natural beauty. So that's what we're working on. We singled out 100 million dinars just to take care of the Ovčar-Cabral ravine in 2020. Unless we have any more serious problems that can make us a coronary virus, infecting workers working on the highway, I think we have great partners in the Chinese Siar Bissi, an incredibly high-quality company, fulfilling everything they say, so I believe we'll have the highway to Požega by the end of the year, and then we're moving on Požega-Kontroman, what's important for that part of Serbia. As far as access stations are concerned. That's where I invite you to come back, to have a meeting with Minister Momirović, with his team, to look at all the maps, to have the presidents of the municipalities come along, so you know, to make a deal. I think it's for the best and the most practical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4567	Thank you. First Vice-President and Minister of Education Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4568	Thank you, Mr. President. People's MP, thank you for asking. So, very briefly. As always, in accordance with the procedures, if the request or reserve is expressed, the inspection sector will react without delay and in accordance with this finding, we will see whether these claims are justified or not. It's something we do every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4569	Thank you. National MP Tandir, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4570	I would like to point out as a representative of the strongest Bosniak party in Serbia, as head of the MP's Club of Justice and Reconciliation, particularly the act of the country's president, Aleksandr Vukic, and his donation to BiH vaccines and all other neighbouring countries. It's something we support as a policy of reconciliation. The creator of this policy is the leader of our party, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, and the agreement we made with SNS representatives is that the relationship between the Bosniak and Serbian and Bosniak peoples is raised to one of the highest levels and we are working on relaxing opportunities in the region. So there is no stability, permanent stability of Southeast Europe, the southwest Balkans without good relations between the Bosniak and Serbian people. All we're doing to resolve open issues, infrastructure, economic issues is correcting some of the past injustices. I just want to point out that this government already has some results, big results, especially when it comes to ecology. I want to thank you for your funds for the Priboy municipalities and the 66 million dinar Predoli and 15 million dinars for the floating barriers. Also, I want to thank you for everything we plan to do, especially when it comes to infrastructure and tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4571	Thank you. MP Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4572	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Since taking over this mandate as a People's MP, no matter how my speeches are experienced here, I have been persistently trying to point out the need for the Republic of Serbia to take measures to prevent the spread and institutionalisation of hate language and interethnic provocations. I did it, according to me in liquid Serbian, but it seems that you and I speak different Serbian. When I used my right, I spoke also in my native Albanian, I came across the contempt, the noise of my colleagues and the insufferableness, to listen to me for at least five minutes. No matter what, I will continue to talk about topics some would not like to hear, but which I believe are crucial to respecting human and minority rights and building a democratic society, but also building long-term peace and good neighbourly relations in the Western Balkans. It is known that after armed conflicts and periods of serious human rights violations, as well as wars, there are few tasks that are as current as reconciliation. Reconciliation with yourself, reconciliation with reality, reconciliation with your enemy. Reconciliation implies that earlier enemies have found the basis for living together. Reconciliation is therefore a process where the reality of conflict is seen in the perspective of the future. To this end, dialogue between Kosovo and Serbia has been launched between the two nations, and normalisation of relations with Kosovo is also of real importance to determine the speed of Serbia and Kosovo's accession negotiations with the EU. In order to normalise relations, to create good interethnic relations and stability in the Western Balkans, in order to calm the frequent passions that have seriously risked the EU dialogue process, it has always urged all political actors in Serbia and Kosovo and the rest of the region to engage in the actions they create, promote an atmosphere suitable for reconciliation, regional stability and co-operation. Despite such laws coming from the EU, we are witnessing frequent and unnecessary provocations that the whole negotiation process risks returning to its starting point. In a previous period, Serbia's provoking man was Marko Djuric, but since he went to America, unfortunately President Vukic has taken over his role. Announcing Kosovo's card with a Serbian flag is a symbolic provocation that shows Serbia's further claim towards Kosovo, but it also represents a symbol of Kosovo without Albanians, a symbol of the 1990s password, Albanians via the Curse, and we all know that the policy has ended. On the other hand, we are aware that in Serbia's political scene, Kosovo has been a barn for more than 30 years to collect nationalist votes, and this picture that President Vukic published on his Instagram profile can indicate the start of a campaign for the next presidential elections and elections for the capital. The country's president's act should be seen in light of the tried-out recipe, when an internal problem arises, it should cause external political tension in order to draw the attention of the local public to the other side. However, I believe it is in the interest of everyone that "Jovanjica" and other affairs that threaten to repeat themselves in Serbia in the form of Brionic Pleum should not be used to further prolong relations with Albanians and Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4573	Thank you, Mr. Cambery. You're three minutes out. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4574	Thank you. Dear People's MP, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you are the People's MP of the Republic of Serbia, so you must respect the Republic of Serbia and therefore also respect that Kosovo and the Metohija AP are within the Republic of Serbia. So there's no doubt about this, there's no overemotion, no anger and no debate. This is completely clear, and especially in this home. A map of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija marked by the Serbian flag is a map that is common. The map, such as the Serbian flag, recognises more than half of the globe. So those who think Kosovo is not in Serbia are in the minority on this planet and by the number of residents and by the number of countries in the UN. The flag of another country or other imaginary flags on Kosovo and Metohija show claims of foreign forces towards Serbian territory. So it wouldn't be right, and as President Aleksandar Vukic put it, it's true and that's exactly how it should be. As far as good neighbourly relations in the Western Balkans are concerned, I don't think anyone in the last few decades has done more than President Aleksandr Vukic for good neighbourly relations in the Western Balkans. He didn't react to any provocation. Every time others were provoked, he sought to send messages of peace, understanding, co-operation, he sought that Serbia would not respond aggressively because no one in this region is in the interest of the region being unstable and that peace is at stake here in this region again. It is not in anyone's interest, at least to the Republic of Serbia. That's why, among other things, Mini Shengen's initiative. As a result, from about a month and a half ago, citizens of the Republic of Albania can enter the Republic of Serbia without passports, only with a ID card. You know who initiated it? Alexander Wolfie. I don't know if anything's better than that. We can talk political floscule here. We're politicians, I understand, and you're going to have local elections, and now you have to try to cast another vote, another percentage, but this is the truth. When we talk about the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, not Kosovo and Serbia, as you say, but Belgrade and Pristina, the dialogue is held by Belgrade and President Vukic, precisely because of peace and precisely for stability. But at this point, there's only one point when I'm talking about dialogue, only one thing I'm talking about -- a community of Serb municipalities. The Serb municipality community is scheduled to remind you of the first normalisation agreement. The first normalisation agreement was signed by political leaders in Pristina. It also signed the European Union, on behalf of the European Union, their high representative, who then moderated Catherine Ashton's dialogue and, of course, representatives of central Serbia, or Belgrade. The first normalisation agreement left one unfulfilled obligation, the only one Pristina had to meet -- the establishment of a Serb municipality community. There is no other normalisation agreement until the first normalisation agreement is implemented - the Serb municipalities' communities. If we are talking about good neighbourly relations, if we are talking about reconciliation among nations, then we should talk about serious people, serious statesmen implementing what they agreed on and what their signature stands on behalf of some of their institutions. Finally, since we were now witnessing the formation of the so-called so-called. The governments in Pristina, therefore the governments of the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, are seeing the provocation again. We see again people who are not only unable to stand behind their signature in the First Normalisation Agreement, so they do not meet the Brussels Agreement and do not form a community of Serb municipalities, but again, apparently throughout the world, violate their own constitution. Serbs in the government, the government of temporary institutions, must follow the constitution and so on. The Republic of Kosovo has two seats. We need to talk to people who don't respect their so-called. The constitution, but we're still here, but we're still at the table, but we're still begging to talk. Why? Because for young generations, we have to make a completely different future than the past in these places. That's what Alexander Wolfie does first. Serbia, Belgrade, the government of the Republic of Serbia, and this home are also there to give it full and full support. I also ask you as a representative of the Albanian people, to talk to the political leaders in Pristina and to draw attention to the fact that for good neighbourly relations, for a better future, it is really important that we respect what we have agreed and what is signed - the community of Serb municipalities, and that if they already have a constitution in their imaginary state, then as long as they live in that imaginary state, they themselves must respect that constitution. They didn't even respect him when they formed their so-called. Not now that they form their so-called army. The government. How, here, tell me, are you a serious politician, a serious man, then how do you keep talking to people who don't respect their own Constitution, or previously signed agreements and constantly provoke? But here we are, we must ensure a different future. This future is a conversation about schools, education, highways, common tracks, flights, jobs, science and technology parks, something that will give people a chance to live in these areas, to know that they are safe and to know that there is a safe and bright future ahead of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4575	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4576	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister, fellow ministers, when in the assembly of the interim institutions of self-government in Pristina the word gets an MP of Serbian nationality and speaking of our southern province, says Kosovo and Metohija, at the moment his word is taken away, the sentence is pronounced, and he is not so long away from the session hall. When, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the MP of Albania's nationality comes out saying the opposite of the Constitution and the oath he took by acting on the duty of the MP, he is allowed to say what he meant and what he wanted to do, whether it is true or not. See, that's why this is a state here, and why our southern province isn't. So each of us who enters public office signed an oath. I'm sure it's also an honorable speaker whose words I answered to replicate. It is called the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic who, on his Instagram profile, on the day that we marked 17 years since 17 March, in the day in which 34 Serbian churches and monasteries were burned and destroyed, in the day in which, if I am not mistaken, 11 people lost their lives, in the day in which the hordes were burned and destroyed over 800 houses, the exiled thousands of Serbs from the village where they and their ancestors lived for centuries, and the president of our country attacked who put our national flag on the map of our southern province. But so much again about how freedom of speech is disputed in Serbia, as different opinions are suppressed in Serbia, as Serbia is free and undemocratic. As much as our parliamentarians lack some ethics in their conversion. Then our ambassador to the United States is also attacked as he allegedly was a protagonist against Albanians. No, no, don't change the thesis. A short time ago, it was said that a map was shown with Kosovo without Albanians. That's not true. The national flag of the Republic of Serbia is the flag of all our citizens, regardless of national and religious membership. But it is true that in Bujanovac Serbs are not in power, although not represented by 4%, 5% or 10%, but by more than 40% in the local population. There you see the difference between words, on the one hand, and works, on the other hand. I understand the honourable MP. It's about the text, probably, written in another address, it's about the text that was assigned to be read. All right, let each of us do what our job is, which is his job, which is his job and what our tasks are. Our task is to defend and preserve the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. That's what we swore to the citizens and signed the oath he did and the one who obviously broke that oath in today's speech and who it doesn't matter to, but to everyone, it's an honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4577	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4578	Dear Mr. Cambery, I have failed to count how many times you have mentioned the EU. I think it's more than 20, if it's not a problem I'd like, look, you've written it how many times you've said it, the EU, the EU. I think it's over 20 times. I suppose we should all get the impression that you and the EU are some nail and meat, that it's... What, are you threatening us? I don't understand. Should we be scared now? I'm just gonna get you back to life stuff from the recent past. When you didn't have PSR tests, did the EU or Belgrade give them to you? When you didn't have oxygen for patients in the hospital, did she give you the EU or Belgrade? Yes, he gave you Belgrade, advanced, because oxygen is produced in Belgrade, or Serbia. Did the EU give you one vaccine? When we gave the vaccines you started arresting people in Kosovo, although the people, Albanians, told you below – people, don't do it, so they're injecting us, too, we have no problem. They offered you health care workers, for all of them, he offered you Vucic vaccines, you, from some policy, didn't want to do it. What are the numbers of Albanians who, as we speak, are vaccinated in Presevo, cross over, and we allow it all, because the most important human lives are where they come from and what they do. Did the EU give you this? Do you even know what you want? You're threatening us with the EU. People, come on, Serbia is part of Europe. Remember that. No one can drive us out of Europe, and you can see who you are, what you are and where you are. Let someone from the EU adopt you, let them give you a passport and let them give you what they want, we have no problem, everything is settled. First you need to know what you want and go back and see who's helping and who's doing who, not you, but the people who live there and who need help and who we care about. Keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4579	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4580	I think the speakers broke chapter 14. The Rules of Procedure, because I didn't even ask the question, and they answered the questions, but I'll pick up where I left off. "States, as well as individuals, have inherited tendencies, their traditional, geopolitical aspirations and their feelings for history, so that they differ by their ability to perceive the distinction between sober ambitions and unwise deception," Zbigev Bzežinski said in his work "Americans, China, the fate of the world". In this context, Serbia should define its role and express a realistic balance between its ambitions and real potentials. Therefore, my question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia is – what will the government do to prevent the spread, i.e. institutionalising hate language towards minorities, especially Albanians, from provoking regional tensions and what will it do to achieve a comprehensive agreement on normalisation of relations with Kosovo? Speaking of hate languages, I recommend Prime Minister Brnabic, and perhaps I will give you this book by Mr. Aleksandr Pavlovic "Imaginary Albanian", because when the minister says that someone wrote in Belgrade, it is a stereotype to Albanians that you still have. It is a statement based on a stereotype that Albanians are not aware, nor are they able to write something, but someone else is writing it to them. So we have a serious democracy problem in this country. You and I, Madam President, can discuss it all day, we will not agree on certain questions. Whether Kosovo is a state or not, everyone has their own position, but everyone, we can say that those who have not been in Kosovo since 1999 have said something else, but all of you who need permission to go in there know what it is. Temporary institutions -- if there is a government in the Balkans that is temporary, then your government, which has been unconstitutionally declared, is temporary before it is elected. To talk to my friends in Pristina – I am an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you talk to Pristina. It is your duty to talk and find a solution to this problem. I'm just saying, as a folk MP, there's a need to talk about these things and there's no need to raise tensions. I warn of that hate language that your minister, the minister in your government, uses every day against Albanians, and there is no reaction from you. I said I'd give you this book, the Minister is not worth it, because for nothing... There's so much chance of a government salary, I don't have any other work, I only get a government salary, I don't have a rich aunt in America, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4581	Thank you, Mr. Cambery. It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4582	I've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4583	You have in the third round. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4584	Thank you. There's really no need to get upset and argue like that, and it seems to me that I am and that my ministers in the government have made things quite clear. We can talk America, China, the fate of the world, rather than talk about the Serb community. So, let's not have any big policies, let's talk about how the Western Balkans can be a region of prosperity, peace, co-operation, and as you know, I talk to Pristina whenever I get a chance. I wish that were more common. We don't have a special talker in Pristina. If I could talk every day, and I'd love to talk every day because then we could find some solution than there are political leaders in Pristina who say that talking to Belgrade is their sixth or seventh priority. Well, so we're sitting here, waiting, and we're not, is one of our first priorities. We think that peace and stability, security, protecting the lives of people, bringing investors, supporting the economy, opening jobs, which is all the prerequisite for this dialogue, is the most important thing right now. So, here, Mr. Cambery, I'd like to talk to Pristina, but Pristina doesn't want to participate in this dialogue, it doesn't matter to her. It is so important how citizens live in Kosovo and Metohija. You speak, sir, the honourable MP about hate language and apropo language of hatred mention Mark Djuric. The language of the hate of the man who was abducted in Kosovo Mitrovica, who was beaten and tortured, who they tied up, and photographed to boast like beasts with a young politician from Belgrade who was captured, tied, beaten, dragged by a tie as if we were in the 14th or 15th century. You talk about hate language, well, where Pristina is from hate language. Well, hate language is for Pristina a civilization achievement. You're still on torture, kidnapping, killing, well, where we're up to hate language. Marko Djuric felt it best on his skin. You want me to remind you of the pictures when they took him out and paraded the streets of Pristina, dragging him by his tie like a dog. Is that Pristina, is that, like, good neighbourly relations? Yeah, that's not a provocation. Hatred language. We're talking about linguistics here with people who leave, kill kids in a bath, and nobody ever answers. No one, never responsible for the kids they killed at the bath. For destroyed churches, monasteries, murdered, banished families in 2004, no one ever answered. At that time, Albanians at KIM destroyed not only the Serbian cultural heritage but also the world's cultural heritage under UNESCO's protection, as ISIS destroyed temples in Palmira, which was then declared a crime against humanity. In 2004, Albanians destroyed the world's cultural heritage at KIM. No one has ever said a word. No one's ever answered for that. We turned the other cheek in the conversation, dialogue with Pristina just to be peace, just to have a different future, and you talk about hate language. For no single crime against the Serb people, well, at least the Serbian children, no one has ever answered there. Not even on that so-called. Kosovo institutions, neither UNMIK nor Eulex nor international institutions, which were there in 2004, to protect people, security, peace in the area. When you talk about stereotypes for Albanians, I really don't have any stereotypes for Albanians, I don't have stereotypes for any human being, any people, or any religion. I have friends everywhere, like there are people of all religions and nationalities I don't appreciate. I don't share people by whether they're Serbian, or Albanian, but by how good a man they are. For example, about how much he's behind the promises he's made, how much he's behind his signature, whether he's human or not, according to that. So, politicians in Pristina, we certainly don't appreciate it, not a bit. I don't appreciate them because they're negotiating, signing, and then they think everyone else can be fools who don't see they won't do what they signed. Then what's a waste of time for? You could've said right away that you wouldn't talk, that no dialogue was important to you, that what we agreed, signed, would never be fulfilled on one side. But, you know, the problem is that there is an agreement and an EU signature, which they must, at the end of the day, ensure that the Brussels Agreement is fully implemented. I'm going back to the beginning, dear People's MP, the community of Serb municipalities, I thought, since it's so much in your interest, as you say, good neighbourly relations, co-operation among peoples, reconciliation, a different future, in that sense, I meant as a request to talk to politicians from Pristina, to say -- people, it's fair, it's human, that when something is signed that it is then fulfilled. I will, of course, as I always say in every place when I get an opportunity, with Pristina meeting with anyone in Pristina whenever we need to talk about anything, just to be peace. But that's Serbia, and in Pristina, unfortunately, I hear we don't have an interviewer. That's what I hear from Mr. Kurti, and it scares me, and that's why I'm sad, and I'm sorry, because I can't believe he can't see that it's the only way, so yes, both in KIM territory and that we all get better, dialogue with Belgrade. But we are here, but don't talk about hate language, especially don't put Mark Đurić in the same sentence as that of a man who is probably the only man in the whole 20th century in Europe, who was led as a dog by the streets of a city, just to show you, or that your political leaders, in Pristina, show you how strong they are, but they have shown how civilized they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4585	Thank you. Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4586	Thank you. So, if I could continue here where the Prime Minister stopped, if Ambassador Marko Djuric, an example of the language of hate, would not have been opened to him by any single European or world door, where he negotiated on behalf of the Serbs with KIM, on behalf of the state of Serbia, on behalf of the KIM problem. On the contrary, like President Vukic, his door was open everywhere, there was a credible conversator everywhere, and he was shown the respect shown to a civilized man representing his country and his people. On the other hand, I think I need to look back at something that's said, because my words are twisted where I said, if I remember correctly, that about one Albanian can't think of anything to write on his own, well, someone else in Belgrade writes it to him, about, say, something like that. It's a complete lie. So, first thing, I didn't say that to Mr. Camber as an Albanian, that's what I told him as a politician. What I think about the Albanian people shows enough is that as a Serbian Orthodox, I am celebrating the Premature Mother Angelina Brankovic, who was born as an Albanian, and the Serbs consider her one of her greatest saints. But these are, you know, those touching points, which unfortunately, both Serbs and Albanians don't want to see. I want to see them. There's a lot that connects us. As there are things that separate us, which we want to talk about, and as the Prime Minister said, someone else won't talk. You know, what's a state and what's not a state, it's arranged for something that can be called international legal standards, that's so-called. The Kosovo state, they would not need to talk to us, and one of these standards is that the state is a territory that is a full member of the UN organisation. You see, the Republic of Serbia is. If anyone wants to be a state, then they have to stick to what they sign and what they promise and for what they say, not disprove. If someone wanted to be a state, then they'd watch how to solve 14 unsolved cases of murder of journalists from 1998 to 2005, regardless of their nationality. If someone claims to be a democracy, I guess he's defending freedom of the media, I guess he's defending the freedom of opinion of journalists, the right to a free word. Kosovo and Metohija are the only territories in Europe, where no investigation into the murder of 14 journalists has been taken. You see, Mr. Cambery, that's what I'm talking about, despite the fact that out of those 14 journalists 12 are Albanians who wrote something that was not at the will of certain groups, clans or political mafias. And that's what everybody's quiet about. To that, even to the silence of Europe. That's all anyone's talking about? Official Belgrade. Yes, the murder of our children on the coast of Drama and the Nis-express bus and the harvesters in Old Gracok, never anything. And it wants to be a state. I am absolutely convinced that we will persist in our position, in our position, in the serious, responsible, where we are in favour of an agreement, where we stand for a compromise, where we show in relation to the Republic of Albania, right through the Mini Schengen initiative, how we can perform together towards thirds, that we can achieve something good, good for all, not by excluding Serbs in Bujanovac completely from political life and management of the municipality, but by showing much more than we have ever been the case before, both of them, respect for each other. I don't hide it, and in history we often lacked respect for the Albanians, as a people, but we showed it. We showed it when we opened schools as a state in Kosovo and Metohija, when we opened the university as a state, when we built hospitals as a state, when KIM was a territory across Europe with the highest number of students per thousand inhabitants. It wasn't the Brion Pleum, it was then done by the state of Serbia, or the Serbian federal unit within Yugoslavia. What does "Jovanja" have to do with the rights of national minorities and hate speech? Well, there is. That's what someone else wrote. You must have written something, I don't underestimate you, I respect you, but someone said, add this, add that, so it's popular to find it now. As far as I know, an official trial is being conducted on this issue and should not be interfered with, the court should be allowed to make a decision within its jurisdiction. We will continue to be prepared to suffer both insult and provocation. We will always react to the untruth, but we will not give up any moment at all from seeking solutions, peaceful means, agreement, but by protecting the state and national interests of the Serbian state, the Republic of Serbia and our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4587	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP, Ship Camberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4588	Thank you. We're not gonna fight over any ideas all the time. I know you guys have a huge majority of decisions here, I'd say brutal, but you don't have the power of persuasion on some issues. You can't convince me of something that's happened or what's going on. You say, Madam President, that I am doing this because of the local elections in Presevo. Well, half of your ministers were in Zajecar, I guess, where's the election going? Is it about the election or what? You're saying there's been a murder of journalists in Kosovo? Was Slavko Curuvija killed in Kosovo or where? Was the one who killed him found? (People's MPs and ministers present in the O.R.: Yes. It is. I asked you a specific question about dialogue, you tell me about some mass graves. You haven't answered me since the first session when your government was elected whether you'll visit Batajnica or not? You didn't answer me then either. You didn't even answer my question what would happen to the hate language used by your ministers? You know, in Serbian, there's a wise saying: "Call me whatever you want, don't insult me." If I feel offended by the term your minister uses, why does he insist on it? If Albanians feel offensive, why does he use it all the time, and you keep quiet about it? I think those who want dialogue, those who want reconciliation should stop it. The Serbian MP can't get a word? Well, the Serb MP became minister in the government of the Republic of Kosovo the day before. The minister has become. You're saying they don't have rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4589	Mr. Cambery, it's been two minutes. Thank you. I would just remind myself that after this third address, the representatives of the government no longer have the right to respond, but also one who asks a question in the third answer has no right to ask a question but to clarify whether he is satisfied with the answer or not. So let's not spread any further. Just one association of what we've been talking about and what people we've mentioned. Here, in this room twenty years ago, we broke spears, and we sat here day and night fighting against the vote of the Amnesty Act for Albanian separatists and terrorists. So, not to us, Shaip Kamberi freed Kurti, but Kostunica signed the pardon and DOS ministers and the government proposed a pardon law and amnesty, where thousands of Albanian terrorists were released from prison. With pride I can only say that we who were MPs at that time from the Socialist Party of Serbia and the then Serbian Radical Party, I don't know who was all of them from the Serbian Progressive Party MP, but Veljko and I were here and we know, we fought until the end and voted against. Kurti would have been in prison until a year ago and would not have been a candidate for prime minister or president of the political party in Kosovo and Metohija. Let's move on. The People's MP Branimir Jovanić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4590	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, the respected Prime Ministers, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, my first question concerns the problem of waste disposal, i.e. resolving the issue in the Central Serbia area. I refer the issue to the environment minister, Irene Vujovic. A few years ago, an initiative was launched, in the construction of a regional dump that would benefit the cities of Kraljevo and Raška municipality, Vrnjačka Banja, Trstenik and Paracin. A company was also founded, more specifically a shareholder society, a limited liability society dealing with this issue. My question to the minister is - at what stage is this project now? What can the ministry specifically do to speed up and implement this project? Is it possible, if it turns out to be a successful project on the construction of the regional dump, that this issue is being reviewed in other parts of Serbia as well? Because really, the question of waste disposal is one of the current issues and more and more, as time goes by, that question comes to terms. I know that it's specific for the regional dump that I was talking about to develop a regional spatial plan, I know that it's not all in the hands of the ministry, there's something in local self-government, they're also on the move for certain things, and I hope that they will do that part of the work that is up to them, because they're also in the best interest that this project is being realized. I would like to ask the second question, State Administration and Local Self-Government Minister Marija Obradovic. Your ministry is coordinating local self-government in Serbia when we talk about the issue of vaccination. Citizens often ask, I get these questions on the ground and, since over 900,000 people have been re-vaccinated, and over a million people have been vaccinated, so these are no longer isolated cases, namely, on the ground to schedule a term through eGovernment, but sometimes for justified reasons they really miss that term and don't leave in time and they don't vaccinate. What do they do in that case? What to do in case they lose the certificate they received during vaccination or revaccination, which, of course, they want to have. It's a million people now, and I can think about how much later it's going to be. It'll happen, there'll be cases like that. Another question for Minister Obradovic, and I hope that I am at the right address when I refer to this question - who can citizens turn to and make a complaint if someone does not respect the prescribed measures? Sometimes citizens are confused about what stores do, what stores don't do. Sometimes businessmen abuse the measures brought by the Crisis Headquarters and it's important for citizens to know who they can address at any moment, because it's simply one life-long, everyday question that answers are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4591	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4592	Dear People's MPs and MPs, first of all, I must point out that management of solid waste is one of the ministry's priorities and I must remind you that since the beginning of this year we have transferred funds to several local self-governments just to complete the construction of the transfer of stations, extensions and recovery of dumps, because we are simply facing this problem. So when we remove the waste, we have nowhere else to put it, and that's definitely what we're working on. So, we have met the problem of decades-old and regional centres that will be citizens, so eight regional centres will be built thanks to exactly the loan from the IBRD and will significantly improve the situation in Serbia after construction. In this year's projecting begins, and that's what's very important to always mention. I just have to point out that, first of all, we've given the funds of Chačka, Književci, Novi Varosha, Piroth and Trstenik exactly for the recovery and expansion of the deposit tape. Speaking of the city of the King, we also had a few meetings with the mayor. First of all, we have a project to expand and resuscitate the city dump in the King at the height of 250 million dinars. In 2020, the ministry gave 20 million dinars, a unit of local self-government five, and a total of 90 million dinars were allocated during 2021. So, from the ministry's budget 65 and the local self-government unit 25 million dinars. Since we have these amounts already in place, the missing funds for the completion of the project are 135 million dinars. So we talked to the local self-government unit and what is needed is for the King to provide funds from the loan. After the expansion of this tape and the recovery of the dump, we will be calm, so to speak, that is, the citizens of the Kings, in the next five years safely. And as for the Regional Waste Management Centre, I note that it is planned and signed a contract with a Chinese partner through the Ministry of Construction. So when we talk about projects concerning environmental protection, we have a great need for all these major projects several loans through several ministries, and we all coordinate anyway, but it is important for the Kingdom that through the SRBC, therefore, Chinese partners, the Agreement and the City of Kraljevo were signed, so the regional centre for all the municipalities mentioned is on that list. As for location and choice, it is certainly on the administration of the city of Kraljev and I believe that in the coming months and that there will be a certain location running and that it will go into realisation, in the design of the project, and later in the realization and the works.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4593	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4594	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you, first of all, for a colleague from the King who asked this question about vaccination, and for all of Serbia. On the other hand, here's a little bit of moving away from these difficult political issues that we've dealt with in the first part of these issues of MPs. These are painful political topics, even when Belgrade and Pristina agree on a way of functioning between the two communities whose representatives are Belgrade and Pristina. We're still going to have some very difficult issues that we won't be able to agree on for a long time, but maybe for a start we'll start talking about some everyday topics. Often when we talked about women living in both Belgrade and Pristina, who are politicians, journalists, activists of NGOs, there was some initiative "Follow us", we talked about this, about everyday topics – violence against women, health, entrepreneurship of women, and here is just one short message. To better Belgrade and Pristina start talking, let's talk about everyday topics. That's one thing. When you can't solve the problem on the main channel, try it indirectly. It's one of the diplomatic instruments. So, we talked about when domestic violence is a matter of whether it hurts more when an Albanian is beaten by a husband or by a Serb husband. Now, that's the essence of the story that Belgrade and Pristina need to talk about, to get away from this dead end. That's what we women in politics tried to talk about. I can't say that we've made some big shift, but let's try these alternative directions to find common languages, because obviously what Belgrade has insisted on so far is hard to go on. Pristina refuses to talk. I'm sorry I took the time. Just for a little while around the vaccination. You asked the key things about vaccination - what to do in the situation when we missed the vaccination term, what to do in a situation where we have no confirmation of vaccination, and we are vaccinated and revaccinated. We have just because of a large number of questions opened a special portal and there is a special service on the eGovernment portal. When people go to the address "eudav.gov.rs" can find an option that is precisely called – a new certificate of vaccination and a missed vaccination term. It's the simplest way, that I don't burden people with other details right now. Therefore, at the address "eugred.gov.rs" I can get a new vaccination certificate and I can schedule a new vaccination term. There's another option. If you are sure that for some of your reasons you cannot be vaccinated in the next period, you can also choose a period during which you can approximately be vaccinated. It's very important for people who have been prevented for some other reason to be vaccinated. What is important, and I saw it as the essence of your question somewhere, that we all insist on being vaccinated as many people as possible, and what you asked me about is also part of the struggle for vaccination. We did say at this point that we have about a million and a half people who are registered to the eGovernment portal, but it has to be much, much better. We're working on that promotion every day. The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government in cities and municipalities insists that officials, local self-government leaders promote daily in local media, but also work on the ground and what Prime Minister Brnabic announced, and of course President Vukic with his announcement of vaccination. Several places he mentioned in southern Serbia, where a really small, low percentage was vaccinated and I think it will help strongly the moment when the president is vaccinated and even more strongly invites people to vaccination. It's important that we talk in cities, in villages, to explain to people everything that is prejudice about vaccination. At this point, we should not slave for different prejudices when especially the “Astra Zeneka” vaccine is concerned. I don't think it's popular in public, but I'll tell you it's just another prejudice. I have the numbers in which the percentage of people are vaccinated in Serbia and what vaccines. "Sinofarm", of course, because of the largest amount we own, 70% of the total number of vaccines and revaccinated in Serbia received "Sinofarm", 12% "Fajzer" vaccine, "Sputnik" 9% and "Astra Zeneka" the same 9%. So everything I've been listening to in the last few days on the field, where people say they refuse and they're not in the mood to receive Astra Zeneka, absolutely numbers show otherwise. So we have over 110,000 people in Serbia who have received Astra Zenek. Angela Merkel is also someone who announced that he wanted to be vaccinated and announced the purchase of Astra Zeneka for the population of Germany, so if they don't slave to prejudice and are in the mood for it, why should we worry? The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is also in substandard settlements, therefore, for those in those vulnerable groups, marginalised, such as Roma, for example, which are not particularly in a situation to be registered to the portal e-government, organized mobile teams, where we also want to vaccinate that group of citizens, without terms and mobile teams with a certain amount of vaccines going into the field, of course, in strictly controlled conditions, to vaccinate people on the ground. Of course, it is also done with people who are immobilised, who are not in a situation to reach vaccine checkpoints, which are otherwise 319 in Serbia at the moment. I want to thank the Ministry of Health once again and we do it every day, but it is not burned once again, to thank all medical workers, of course, the Ministry of Health, certainly the Government of Serbia, but to the Ministry of Health, all medical workers, nonmedical staff who are helping to implement the immunisation process as it is carried out. We get commendations from all over the world, it's really not a flossula that I repeat, daily meeting both foreigners and officials especially the EU who admire us and our degree of organisation and work on the ground when it comes to immunization. We're not giving up on this. I said, there's not enough people registered by e-portal. Therefore, we also introduce specific ways of vaccination on the ground, vaccination without time. People over 60 should be and are Serbia's priority when it comes to vaccination. For now, we have vaccinated about 42% in the population of 60 plus Serbia. So out of the total number of older people over the age of 60 in Serbia, 42% of these people were vaccinated. Belgrade is ahead of that, 53% of people vaccinated in Belgrade. I would, apart from these two portals, these two services that can be obtained on the e-Government portal, I would just like to announce for a little while that on the Inspector.gov.rs portal, this is the second part of your question, people can get information on how to correctly interpret Serbian Government regulations, regulations signed at the moment by Minister Loncar, because it's much more practical than before, these are the decisions of the Crisis Headquarters, so the Covid Centre 19 measures on the Inspector.gov.rs portal, there you can get all the clarifications on the subject. Four lawyers work at the centre, one economist works, and you can quickly get information about what is and how to clarify certain measures. People say, "Well, wait or work or don't do anything." The point is, we're not talking about banning certain action. All these regulations, the measures adopted by the Government, are not essential to prohibit any action from working at all, but rather to ensure that the way in which this activity takes place, the service provided to citizens, is maximum safety and epidemiological measures. So every day a lot of questions from different entrepreneurs and businesses, can they still work. That's why we talked about 16 squares that need to be provided in fitness centers, nine squares in cosmetic and hair salons per user. That is why we have thus defined these details, because we want as Government to show that it is important for us to establish a balance between the continued functioning of the economy, the economy in Serbia, because we need an inflow so that we can provide funds to fight the crown, while at the same time being epidemiologicalally correct. So, once again, for all these ambiguities, and there are really, we opened that center on March 19th and since then about 1,200 questions were received and asked on that portal Inspector.gov.rs. I would ask all people who have some questions and dilemmas on the subject to turn there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4595	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4596	Thanks for the answers. Next question I refer to Minister of Education Branko Ruzic. A month ago, Belgrade's leadership presented a brilliant idea that from September 1st, elementary school students from first to fourth grade will receive pills from the city and that the city will provide digital textbooks. The process is very simple. My parents owe me pills. When procedures are carried out around digital textbooks, students will have the same textbooks at home as they have at school and it will make school easier for them in many ways. My question concerns this – is the Ministry of Education able to provide funds for the same project to be implemented in the territory of all Serbia? It's not just a question for you, it's also a question for the prime minister, of course, because it's necessary to secure money from the budget. I know it is easier for Belgrade to provide funds for tablets and digital textbooks, because Belgrade is the capital, the representations of the largest companies are in Belgrade, has a bigger budget than other cities and municipalities in Serbia, but simply this is a question where there should be no inequality. So, if students in Belgrade have one learning condition, the same conditions should have students in both Prepolje and Leposavic, both in Vranj and in Vienna. It is that it is an equal approach to education where we provide equal opportunities for all to be educated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4597	Thank you. The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4598	Thank you. So, as far as this goes, we're going to digitize our education system in 2017. We started by subjecting programming and coding as a mandatory fifth grade class class, but also, with a lot of understanding that the current way of learning, teaching, classing, is no longer so interesting for younger generations, we entered the complete digitization of schools. You know, it's amazing when I remember there in 2015, how few schools across the Republic of Serbia had access to the Internet, which is a shame and shows the attitude, I think, of previous governments from 2000 to 2014 towards education and according to what skills we give our children to fight in the future for better jobs. So we started in this complete digitalisation of education, in 2017 we started connecting schools to the fast internet, we started introducing digital classrooms and digital textbooks. In 2017, if I'm not mistaken, we had a practical test phase, a pilot project with 2,000 digital classrooms. That turned out to be remarkable. They were content teachers, teachers, professors, but they were truly extremely pleased with both children and parents, and then we continued to do so. Our plan is to complete full digitisation by the end of 2022, i.e. that all schools in the Republic of Serbia are connected to the Internet, so that not only the IT cabinet or computer classroom has the Internet, but that all classrooms in all schools have the Internet, have digital classrooms, have digital textbooks. It then opens up a space for what was given as an initiative by Deputy Mayor Goran Vesic and the city of Belgrade, which is that local self-government instead of what was once, buy textbooks, actually, give pills, buy licenses, and thus give a completely different way, education methods to its founders or foundings in that local self-government. As for us as Government, we will ensure that in all the territory of the Republic of Serbia all schools have the same conditions, that every school, no matter how far away it is, how small, in which it is, how many students there are, that each school is connected to the Internet, that each classroom has digital classrooms and that every school has digital textbooks. Then we will see with both local self-governments and one system way, and also through the Academic Network of Serbia how we can ensure constant renewal of equipment, because it is something that will give completely different conditions for learning to our younger generations, children in schools, different skills, different ways of thinking, and then it will all result in different jobs, salaries and one different economy and generally different society and economy, so to another Serbia. That's what we're going to do. It's a big investment. I thank both the National Assembly and you MPs for voting for the ratification of the loan with the European Investment Bank for related schools of 65m euros. This is the part that we, all 65m euros, will actually invest that all children across Serbia have the same conditions, and that these conditions, believe me, are something better than in most EU countries. It's parallel to what we do through the Public Investment Management Office, where we renovate all schools from floor to ceiling, where we build school pools in an increasing number of schools. I've had the great pleasure of visiting a newly renovated elementary school in Ub municipality. Looks like you're in some elementary school in Great Britain with a small school pool. It really looks phenomenal, and that's the standard that we have in Serbia today. It's gonna take time for all the schools, but, of course, we've done enough already. So it's about digitising education, and this other thing is really just the quality of the conditions in which our children learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4599	Thank you. Before I give my word to the first vice president and to Minister Ruzic, as well as to Mr Jovanovic, I have indeed said of my best intentions who applied for all the questions. We have one principle here that we can't reason now whether it's good or not, but that's to ask the parliamentary questions from least to the largest parliamentary group. If we go at the pace we're talking about, the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group won't make it to its turn. I'm talking about the largest member of Parliament right now. The rules of procedure do not provide for how long government members can answer parliamentary questions. If the parliamentary question is three minutes, I'm really asking you to stick to some boundaries, because we won't be able to... I mean, this session is supposed to run from 4:00 to 19.00. So there's no sooner or later. I didn't want to react or warn anyone, but I'm just asking you, if possible, if we have four more, Mr. Jovanovic will probably call again to give answers, and I don't think it's necessary, because I'm suggesting to him. Also, I would like to ask everyone else who will ask the question to make it possible, Branimir Jovanovic has another round of rights, Lives Starcevic, Elvira Kovac, Djordje Milicevic, Milimir Vujadinovic. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4600	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll take it very briefly, so I don't have to discuss it in writing. So, what is the initiative of the city of Belgrade and the deputy mayor has indeed come across the support of the resolution ministry, and I simply have to point out to you that in this year, the Ministry has defined 720 million dinars precisely for free textbooks and that coverage is somewhere around 25% of the total number of students and pupils, above all those who are vulnerabilities or lower social status, also persons with disabilities. In addition, another 760 million, if I'm not mistaken, the dinar for free digital textbooks and that's what I'm telling you, a quarter of the total number, but what the initiative of the city of Belgrade practically means is that this coverage of children who receive free textbooks is broader and what the Prime Minister said, so we also want to look at these changes and additions and the Law on textbooks to look at that option, that practically those units of local self-government that have that potential, which are capable of identifying certain means for textbooks, that they have both the law defined and that, in that way, we get closer to the ideal that we have as many students with free textbooks, and that is certainly the intensity and ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4601	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4602	Thank you. Just to add something, since I think it's a very important issue, and she mentioned the Prime Minister, about the introduction of a broadband internet, so in all rural areas, in rural areas. We, by the way, chose the project this summer as one of the key projects for running for the economic and investment plan for the Western Balkans, which was presented here in October with President Vukic, Commissioner for Enlargement Varhaj. These are really big funds, but they are required to be key projects that will go towards guidance, not just infrastructure development, but a total of one inclusive growth, and we are witnessing that time and education are changing and that we children have to prepare for the future, to be competitive both on the European and on the world market. The project totals 76m euros. The majority will be financed from loans, i.e. from grants, EU grants, something from a favourable IBRD loan - the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In January, my colleague Matic and I, right at St. Sava, signed 1.7m euros for the preparation of project technical documentation, which is very important. It is actually a project that will allow every child in Serbia, every student in Serbia, to live anywhere, to have the right to a new generation, and the right of a new generation is access to the Internet. Without it, there is no development of the economy, no convergence of our market and no economy with the EU. I just wanted to give you some more information. So, much is being done to prepare project technical documentation and, I say, will be financed by the largest part of the funds, and by EU grants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4603	Thank you. That's right now at the polls after asking parliamentary questions. Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4604	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. In my first address and second address, I tried not to use for three minutes. I'm not gonna use the two minutes my Rules of Procedure gives me right now. I'm satisfied, of course, with the answer. Like you said, we had a debate two days ago. There was Minister of Trade, Telecommunications and Tourism Mrs Tatjana Matic. I hope that we will adopt this agreement that will provide fast internet infrastructure for another 500 rural schools. In this context, I'm actually saying that technological progress is now on the agenda and that all areas of life have to monitor this technological progress and, of course, education. As for the response I received from Environment Minister Irena Vujevic, I am also pleased with the response and I am grateful that the ministry is doing everything in their power to improve the situation on the ground. You mentioned that the King needs to fix the credit to solve the problem. The King has no problem with the loans. Kraljevo, as far as credit debt is concerned, is zero dinars, is one of the few cities in Serbia that can afford it, thanks to one responsible city administration policy. Just to look back on Minister Marija Obradovic's response. That's right, we often deal with high politics, heavy topics, but nothing easier is a vaccine. It's a hot potato in the hands of all ministers, of course, and in your hands. I hope you can solve it successfully. It is very important that citizens could hear some useful information tonight, because only if we give them timely and useful information will vaccination be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4605	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4606	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, these days on social networks seem to me more than ever to be witnesses of the increased activity of the irresponsible, I would say, and malicious individuals, antivacsers, or whatever they call themselves, who spread through social networks and not only on social networks of false news, wider panic, I would say, and direct their hatred and anger to those who have vaccinated or who want and intend to vaccinate. Well, social media usually spreads all kinds of false news, but what I'm talking about tonight is that we need to separate the usual fake news, because it's directly about people's health and lives. Namely, by calling people not to be vaccinated, because, they say, I quote "the vaccination will become laboratory mice where experiments are performed that people do not actually die from Kovid 19 but from something else" are really dangerous calls that will cost the lives of many people. Unfortunately for me, I knew dozens and dozens of people who died of the consequences of Kovid 19. In the city I come from every day, someone loses their lives because of Kovid 19. A few days ago, a week ago, even eight people in one day. Of course I can understand that someone disagrees with our political opinion, that someone is rooting for another team, but I really can't understand that kind of irresponsibility, inconclusiveness, and I would say malice. In fact, I would even say that this call for people not to be vaccinated and this spread of panic is nothing more than a criminal act against public order and peace, which, in the Criminal Code of Article 343, reads - who, by making or passing false news or claiming challenges to panic or a serious breach of public order or peace, or who, by means of a more significant obstacle to the implementation of decisions and measures of state authorities or organisations, which exercise public authority, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years and by fines. The position of the 2nd member of the law says – if the work described in Article 1 is done through means of public information or similar means or at a public meeting, the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. I don't see the Minister of Police here, but here you can, Prime Minister or Justice Minister, answer - when will it start with the application of this member of the law and when will they stand in the way of people who are irresponsiblely, unseriously trying not to destroy the state, but rather to bring down the health of our nation?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4607	The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4608	Thank you for starting this topic. I find it difficult to have any more important topics at this time for our country and all our citizens. I agree with you, of course. I think this kind of spread of false news is something that is at this point a huge crime. Anyone who spreads such false news and in any way tries to convince citizens that it is better not to vaccinate than to vaccinate is indirectly or directly responsible for someone's life, the life of that person who has not been vaccinated. She could have been protected, and she wasn't protected. At this point, as a crisis staff, we analyze the number of infected people and the number of hospitalized people who received the vaccine, the first dose, the poor, because you are not really protected after the first dose and whether or not there are infected three weeks after the relapsing. We'll be publishing that data soon. I can tell you today that there is a clear difference in the number of infected people who are not vaccinated compared to those who have been vaccinated, at least once a dose. I think Minister Lonchar can say it much better, what's the difference if you've received at least one first vaccine in the severity of the coronal virus. You've got people, I've been listening to this at the crisis headquarters, by Dr. Goran Stevanović, Professor Pelemis, who received the first dose of the vaccine, they've been infected, hospitalized, but who, due to various other diseases, were certainly dead if they hadn't received even that first vaccine. And now they fight and the doctors fight for them. One more request and one more appeal. Guys, it's not this vaccine or anything new, the vaccine saved humanity as long as the last century. So this is the only way, but the only way to beat the coronary virus. They're clear numbers. We're going to wait until it's time to have more people who've had three weeks of relapsing, and we're going to show clear figures, clear arguments that the vaccinated people are protected after three weeks, after the relapsing, and that we're going to return to normal life. One more thing that is extremely important to me to say today and to you honourable MPs, but to give a clear message to all citizens who think they can bend the system and that they can get confirmation that they have been vaccinated without being vaccinated. Today, unfortunately, we had our first cases, two cases, at a mass vaccination checkpoint at the Belgrade Fair, where volunteers who were ingesting people who were coming in to vaccinate, inserting them into the system, putting people who didn't vaccinate, to get a certificate of vaccination, so they could travel. People, please, we have the perfect information system today, we can immediately notice such machinations. Today, two people were detained by the MUP, who worked as volunteers at the Belgrade Fair, at the Mass Vaccination Point, because in agreement with some other people, they were inserted into the vaccine system, printed out certificates of both vaccine and revaccination, that these people were absolutely not vaccinated. So the anti-vaxers wanted confirmation that they could travel. It's a serious crime. As far as I can tell, there's been a 48-hour detention. One person has already made a statement. The other person is currently at the police station and you're taking a statement, but don't do it. This is not the Serbia where such machinations are possible. About a month ago, we saw them inoculated at one point and some foreigners who weren't in priority categories as strangers. We sent our security services. Don't do that. We have an information system. We have a clear review of the situation. Clear monitoring. Clear control. Please don't do this to you or to us or to those people you think you're doing a favor for. It's a favor to tell them to leave and vaccinate. The Republic of Serbia is one of the few countries that has acquired enough vaccines to have a mass immunisation campaign. Use it. Use what you can choose from vaccines. Use what the whole state and the whole state summit are doing on this as a priority thing. Don't try to cheat on the system because it will result in nothing but bad things for those who cheat on the system, for those who asked or bribed them to cheat on the system. Believe me, we are today a state that has been working for five years on its digitization, electronic administration. That's why we can have systems like this. Go, vaccinate, protect yourself, protect your family. That's really the most important thing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4609	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4610	I only have one appeal for all Serbian citizens, and I want you all to understand that when we mention these anti-vaxers, they succeed. That's their goal. Please understand that. If the media can understand that, too. That's all they want. Just pay attention to one thing. Is there only one proof in the world of what they say? No, there's no evidence that the vaccine is harmful. They state not one proof, nor do they state one test, nor do they state one work. So, people, just think about whether there are facts for something or not. You have a million and one fact for the vaccine, to save lives, to improve health, to prevent the transmission of the virus, and for what these anti-vaxers do, you have no single fact, no proof. Just keep that in mind, because they're always in receipt whenever we mention them and when we point that out. That's their goal. I've seen, now I'm not some expert on these social networks, whether it's Google or Twitter, that they've already made a decision to ban all these messages that this guy's against the vaccine and everything else, that they've banned it from appearing on their networks. I'm not sure, maybe it was an initiative or something, but I'm absolutely into it that while this is going on, this isn't regular, that if we can, there's the Justice Minister, and I don't know how much we can do it, to introduce that these messages can't be broadcast. That would be best, because as much as we talk, we give them meaning, we create a problem, and then we need more time to solve it. Guys, just focus on facts and evidence. The evidence is all on the side of the vaccine. There's no evidence of human beings being vaccinated. Just keep that in mind, that's quite enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4611	Thank you. Minister Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4612	Dear MPs, I would just like to point out that spreading false news is a criminal offence of a criminal code that is in force. It is only for us to act under this law, or that the DAs respond to any spread of these false news. Unfortunately, this positive legislation has no way of obliging Serbian citizens to be vaccinated, which I believe is a lack, but in democratic principles, it is a possibility for a man to choose whether or not he will be vaccinated. We must be aware that it is necessary for all of us to vaccinate and influence through our appeals to the citizens to vaccinate and sanction all those who spread this false news. In that sense, I will issue a special appeal to the prosecution to respond to everything that is happening on social networks, on Twitter, and on all the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4613	Thank you. Ambassador Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4614	Dear Prime Minister, we have been calling for a year, a year and more. The more we appeal to people to respect the profession, to vaccinate, to respect the measures, the more persistent these are on social networks. I therefore support the minister of justice's position and support for this letter to the prosecutors in order to react and start to process these irresponsible and irresponsible people. Thank you. My next question was addressed to Minister Selakovic and perhaps Minister Matic. In fact, from March 7th to March 13th this year, Dragan Markovic Palma led a delegation, in which I was also a member, who travelled to Egypt and there we had meetings with the Governor of the Red Sea region, General Amr Hanafi, the Governor of the GIZ region, a region that has more than ten million inhabitants, General Abdullah Hafez and with MPs in the Egyptian Senate, and of course also with Deputy Minister of Tourism, Mrs Gadjad Shalabi. The deputy tourism minister has shown openness to boost tourism co-operation in both directions, as the number of tourists from Serbia in Egypt has increased, but has also expressed a desire to increase the significant number of tourists coming to Serbia. In fact, Egypt is a country of 106 million people, so let 50,000 of them come annually mean a lot to Serbia. What she cited as an obstacle to this co-operation process is an extremely complicated and long-term visa procedure for Egyptian citizens. In fact, here yesterday, only in the small hall of this home, we had a meeting of the Serbia-Egypt friendship group that he attended among other things. E. Ambassador, Mr. Alguveilly, and he also highlighted the problem in the process of economic co-operation and the process of co-operation in the field of tourism. My question, of course, is that we are aware of our obligations in the EU accession process, and our obligations relate, among other things, to the visa regime towards third countries, but my question is, can we find a way to facilitate this procedure, so that the citizens of Egypt can obtain more quickly and efficiently some group visas guaranteed by the possibly Ministry of Tourism of Egypt or by the tourism organisation of Egypt or the tourist agency and thus help and speed up co-operation, tourism co-operation between our two countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4615	Thank you. Time's up. Here you go, Tatjana Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4616	The esteemed chairman, a respected prime minister, respected fellow ministers, when we talk about the development of tourism, of course, is one of the key and more important things, above all the preconditions, that there is no visa regime. The second is, of course, a good connection whether it's air traffic or other types of traffic. When it comes to Egypt and the issue of the visa regime, you have made a good point, there are obligations, international obligations that Serbia has and estimates are made from several resolutions on whether it is desirable and whether it is actually meaningful to enter into a visa-free regime for certain countries. So, interest in Egypt towards Serbia exists, but it is known that most tourists are actually leaving Serbia for Egypt. They are an interesting market for us, but whether or not it is possible to facilitate the visa regime, it is a more political issue on which, among other things, the foreign minister may say something more. It is not only in the domain of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other agencies that need to make an assessment of this and based on this assessment to carry out a financial analysis of the effects of making such a decision. So it's not just a matter of tourism or income that we would have on one side, but of another kind of assessment and political and security on the other hand, and whether it threatens in any way our international obligations to which we are obliged, as you yourself have said, by the EU accession process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4617	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4618	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be very brief. First, I thank you for the question you have raised not only in the capacity of the man who runs the foreign affairs portfolio in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also as the minister who is co-chairing the Joint Government Committee for Economic Co-operation. I expect that by the end of the month or early June we will have 11 years and hold the first session of our Mixed Committee on Economic Co-operation, and this issue that you have raised will certainly be considered in particular. I don't know what's in the details at this point, but I've already asked to get what's the situation of the visa regime towards Egypt. You will also receive an answer in writing, and if there is space, in accordance with our already assumed international obligations, and especially in our obligations with Brussels to change something on this plan, be assured that we will work hard on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4619	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4620	Thank you. Very short, just to make the citizens understand. When we talk about the visa regime with any state, I'm not just talking about the Egypt that you mentioned and what there are obviously numerous, above all economic reasons. However, to understand, it is not a specific requirement for Brussels or our international commitment from the accession process, but it is in direct relation to our visa liberalisation that we have as an accession country and which our citizens have as an opportunity to travel without visas across the European Union countries. Of course, every list of countries that don't have that kind of visa liberalisation towards the European Union from here must be carefully analysed with us, in order not to in any way at all, I say again, I'm not really talking about Egypt in this case, but I'm talking about the principle in general, so that it doesn't potentially endanger our visa liberalisation. So, it's not about some arbitraryness, it's really about our interests sometimes, but it's always about political assessment and weighting needs, on the one hand and political, economic and each other, of course, and tourism primarily falls within the scope of what's important for our economy, but also for our cultural exchange and at all the exchange of contacts between different peoples and peoples. So, even in this measured scale, we are always trying to find the best way to apply these not only obligations, but simply, to say, agreements that directly concern us and, among other things, visa liberalisation. That's why we always weigh very, very carefully. As counterpart Selakovic said, this is usually the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we at the Ministry of European Integration always analyse everything in this capacity and give an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4621	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4622	I was talking about the visa regime, I wasn't talking about visa waiver, about establishing a visa-free regime between Egypt and Serbia, I was talking about simplifying the procedure with some guarantees on the other hand, so that Egyptian citizens wouldn't wait 20 days or even 40 days to get a visa, which complicates the process of establishing tourism co-operation. Believe me, you, Minister Matic, have said that more of our tourists are going to Egypt. That's right, but as much as we admire the red sea, deserts and pyramids, believe me, they came to us in Jagodin for a return visit to our friends from Egypt, they also admire our rivers, our forests, our mountains. When they see snow on the bathroom and on Tara, it's a sight for them that delights them. Believe me, Egyptian tourists would like to come to Serbia. Once again, it's a country with 106 million inhabitants. Let 50,000 a year come to Serbia, it is a big deal for tourism in Serbia and a tourist offer. So my appeal was to find a solution that would not violate our visa regime, which would not violate our obligations, yet somewhere find a model and a modus to simplify obtaining visas for Egyptian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4623	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4624	Thank you. Dear President, the Presidency, Prime Minister, members of the government seven-eight days ago, European Commissioner for Enlargement and Neighbouring Policy Oliver Varhelji presented the ambassadors of the member states of the European Union, so-called. "non-paper", applying a revised methodology for Serbia-Montenegro. In fact, this document was developed in February last year by the document "Increasing the accession process, a credible EU perspective for the Western Balkans", which is in principle a new methodology. Commissioner Varhelji then stressed that "non-paper" contains four basic principles: the principle of credibility of the process, the second as a stronger political governance of the process, the third – the acceleration of the dynamics of the accession negotiations, as well as the fourth principle – predictability of the process. The essence of the new methodology, as we have heard and as we already know, is actually this negotiation not by chapters, but by clusters, but in fact the biggest newspaper that exists, only now defined, is stronger political control by high policy, and that strengthening that conditionality on the one hand is good for rewarding, but on the other hand it is punishment, means the possibility of restoring the negotiation process if there is no progress. As I mentioned, what should be good are concrete rewards in terms of greater financial support or involvement in some of the internal policies. Given the extraordinary complexity of this process, that it really takes too long, that when we talk only, for example, about preparing a screening report, of course not counting Chapter 31, just to draw up and adopt a screening report it took 15.6 months, that the screening report for Chapter 31 was not adopted after six and a half years, that after 56 months Serbia had not met the transitional criteria for chapters 23 and 24, and now it has been stressed that no chapter will be closed unless these transitional chapters are fulfilled. We know that there is no newspaper political control of this process, and we knew that these fundamental chapters would still be overpowered. The specific issue of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians is not whether the government is ready to apply this new methodology, but whether the government is specifically prepared for the first one, hopefully as early as possible, an intergovernmental conference that will define exactly what it will look like, monitoring dynamics, concrete precision of the application of the methodology, planning sectoral approach, and whether there may be a chance of opening up not one but more clusters. We know that all the chapters in the first cluster are already open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4625	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4626	Thank you. European integration remains our strategic foreign policy priority. We, as you probably know, if I'm not mistaken, the Adriatic will correct me, were the first country to say that it accepts the new methodology proposed by French President McCron. Since then, Minister Joksimovic has conducted a truly permanent, continuous dialogue with representatives of the European Union and the European Commission on the methodology. And now we've got a draft of that methodology. Last week or two weeks ago, Minister Joksimovic and I had a good conversation with Commissioner Verhel about the new methodology and expectations of the Republic of Serbia, but also the European Union, of course, about our progress during 2021. The new methodology should practically serve, as I understand it and try to easily explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in order for the accession process itself to be faster, easier to understand, and not to run chapter by chapter, but to open whole clusters on the same topic or in the same area. Those clusters are six. We expect, I think we're ready to open at least one cluster this year, but again on the other hand I have to point out that the appetite itself seems to me, the European Union to expand slightly smaller due to the coronary virus. The European Union, of course, and for that we need to have understanding, has its own problems, other priorities in the fight against the crown of the virus. We already have five negotiating positions ready to open. We haven't practically opened all the chapters of that cluster one fundamentals or basics, whatever the proper translation is. We already have five negotiating positions ready to open. We have practically opened all the chapters from that cluster of 1st fundamental or basic, however proper the translation is. We can go to the opening of two clusters. We are ready, we are continuing to implement reforms and as a special focus as the Government we have in the area of the rule of law. We are working here on judicial reform and on a more effective judiciary. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has also worked extremely hard in this assembly to elect new judges in courts. That's where we solve the great problem of the court's president's office. If I'm not mistaken, we have about 16 more courts where we have V.D., which is also in the process. It's not about the executive, but we're following it because it's important to show me really that progress in the area of the rule of law. What we can do in the area of freedom of the media we have really worked on, and adopted the Action Plan for the Media Strategy and formed the Working Group for the Implementation of this Action Plan and the Media Strategy. Forming a task force for the safety and protection of journalists. We have permanent meetings, Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic and I have one month of meetings with the task force to see how the government can provide additional support. Tomorrow is exactly the next meeting. We opened up to their request and to their SOS-line initiative to report attacks, threats, insults to journalists. We also included journalists and media workers on their initiative in priority categories for vaccination against the coronary virus, and therefore we are one of the few countries that identified media workers as a priority category. We are working on a platform to report violence and for all information to report violence. In co-operation with the OSCE, we are working on an analysis of the Criminal Law to eventually introduce another category into the Criminal Code, which is an attack on journalists. So it's a lot of initiative. We are preparing a meeting and a request for a meeting with the Supreme Cassation Court so that those from the point of view of the media, journalists, can tell what they think might be better at the work of the judiciary. We're really doing our best. There is still much room to work, but I, and of course the Adriatic, are paying attention to this whole debate today in the European Parliament regarding Serbia's progress. We're ready, it's one of our key priorities, I'd say, in regional stability, a key foreign policy priority. We continue to work, and now that all this is going to continue to run, it really depends to the greatest extent possible on the EU member states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4627	Thank you. Minister Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4628	Okay, the Prime Minister put out the basic elements, and I'm just obliged to say a few important things to make the citizens understand. So this new methodology wasn't created because of Serbia, it was made primarily because of Northern Macedonia and Albania, as countries that were meant to enter the accession process, and it was delayed, as you know. Some signals towards the Western Balkans last year were not positive, no one from the Western Balkans, but the pandemic has, and it has broken a lot of things. But what is important to say is that President Vukic and Prime Minister Brnabic accepted a new methodology at a time when no one knew what it would look like, nor what it would look like, which we showed as a government, so both President and Government, great trust in the EU's good and sincere intentions, in terms of credibility, credibility of the whole process and showed that we were really partners in the process, and we expect, of course, that the EU, as an important partner of Serbia in many segments, but above all as a strategic partner in the accession process, would show that it was also serious about the new methodology. We've got some work done, like you said, about, we've already got it. The debate is now going to be adopted among Member States, which are likely to still have some questions, perhaps some changes, etc. The essence of the new methodology is that it formalises something that has so far been a fact, which is that the accession process is a deep and high political process. It's a political process, it's not a technological process. He fell into pure technocrats at one point, and it was quite sclerotic technocrats, but that process, you know, technologically ends the moment you end up with scringing. What are scrinings? You know, it's been done by Serbia for a long time, a parallel analysis. So, the legislative framework in all aspects of the accession process, and that's what Serbia has done long ago. Afterwards we worked and applied an old negotiation methodology in individual chapters, now chapters are grouped into six clusters of relatedness and it should give a new dynamic and new momentum. But the bottom line is the political conduct of the process. This means, therefore, that the home in which we are sitting and discussing tonight will also play a greater role in the European integration process. Everything that is said about European integration will be listened to, the way European integration is talked about. Everything government officials say and do will be monitored. To be very open about it and not just to Serbia, so to everyone in the region. The expectations will be higher, the demands will certainly be more politically, but we have agreed to this process because we think that in the end we are really good for our society. Is the EU having problems now? There is, there is a whole world of problems, but we couldn't have done a lot of things if we hadn't been in the accession process. Nevertheless, the EU is our most important foreign political but also foreign trade partner, the biggest investment in the end and regional stability depends on the success of European integration of all in the region. The new methodology formalizes some of the things that have been so far as to be a fact but that's not what they were called. The Member States will be more affected, therefore, in preparation for the country's progress report. Of course, it means the European Commission because the Member States themselves, remember, of course, that Member States also have some perhaps bilateral agendas, have some different approaches. So we'll see how it all goes. What is important is that Serbia is ready for any kind of methodology. We have shown that we are an effective country, that we are a solidarity society, a resilient society. We also showed in the time of the greatest pandemic that we were able to organize ourselves, that we were able to protect the health of our citizens, to provide everything necessary. Of course, we expect that the Kovaks mechanism will soon begin to access vaccines and buy vaccines from the Kovaks mechanism soon to be applied to us from the Western Balkans, but Serbia has done its part of the job. Show solidarity with everyone in the EU. They showed solidarity with neighbours in the region. Many reforms in the area of rule of law despite the pandemic started and implemented. I just have to tell you that the area of rule of law that has been key so far will now be further highlighted, additionally measured and further, to say, politically securely interpreted. That's what the fact is. Is that easier, is that harder? I don't think it's something we've already experienced for Serbia, but I think political process management will increase. I think the government, and the prime minister already said that, is ready for that. Otherwise, we've already got a lot of things ready in the reform process within the cluster. You asked about the Intergovernmental Conference. The Intergovernmental Conference will become the highest level of strategic, political dialogue between candidates and the EU. It should be held by the announcements that it was approximately and agreed, that by the end of June, a high political Intergovernmental Conference will be held by the end of the Portuguese Presidency, where we would specify all the most important elements of applying the new methodology, but also how much "non-piper" about the rule of law that is expected somewhere, say in May, shows sufficient progress. I think Serbia's progress in the area of rule of law is significant, then perhaps we could go to the opening of one of the clusters. We are working intensively on assessing all groups, negotiating chapters on clusters. Especially for cluster three – inclusive growth and competence and cluster four – green agenda digitalization and transport-infrastructure integration. As far as we're concerned, we're ready, the restructured European Integration Ministry. The negotiating team will actually be a team to support the negotiations of the Government of Serbia with cluster coordinators from the resolution ministries, which we will show political commitment to the process and here I can only say more and the National Assembly will and how it has its part of the work and very often, in the subject of our talks, are just the activities of the National Assembly. You are otherwise the chairman of the Committee on European Integration in Parliament so that you too will have more responsibilities and more work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4629	Thank you. Elvira, but since we're at the very end of this deadline, you can say, but I don't know if she'll have time to answer. So you have that right, but time says different. Come on, quick.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4630	Thank you. I will somehow use three and two minutes in three minutes and then after me and you won't have time to comment, but since the honourable Prime Minister mentioned, I think now that they are announcing the results of the vote that the European Parliament is going to be these days, more specifically about Serbia discussing today the Report actually on the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee in Serbia, which we must stress it has never been this large, but has never been this politicalally sensitive and critical. I think he's very, very strange. Comments come out entirely of the negotiating chapters. That's not a report. Many things are not about Serbia's European integration. It is very outdated on the contrary, bureaucratic phrases are that do not recognise Serbia's reality. One of the worst examples that you will allow me to present specifically is, for example, point 41, which appeals to the Serbian government to provide citizens with all relevant information on the pandemic as well as vaccines and to question statistics related to Kovid 19, while we have actually heard that we are currently, when we are talking about the percentage of vaccination per million inhabitants in Europe, the seventh in the world, and when we talk about the Member States of the European Union, the percentages are much lower, they have much more problems. Serbia is a country where citizens can choose from four vaccines, so there is, this is only one example of whether there is a lot of criticism on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group to point out that we are all aware that this report is in this form because of the political forces in the European Parliament, because more and more Pipilit and the European People's Party, regardless of the fact that our coalition partners are in the IPP with their long-standing partners do not have a majority, and that is why it was necessary to make some broader compromise that turned out to be what it is, but to point out that they are indeed not in place and because they want to sincerely help Serbia's Republic of Serbia join the European Union, so that if I can say so, we still have some bridge against this report, because they believe that it is truly not in place and because they want to help the rapid membership of the Republic of Serbia in the European Union, but I think that it is in the common with the national and the need of all our national and the people, so that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true and that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it that it that it is true that it that it that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it that it that it that Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-25-0.u4631	Thank you. I just want to add to Elvira, that I am surprised that you are surprised that the European Parliament adopted such a text. You know what, if you have an Irena Vujovic in the field of environmental protection in the text of Resolution, it says that they are concerned about the environment in Smedereva, Bora and I don't know where else, Colubari or somewhere, where only the Chinese are. So in Belgrade, you're just trying, and only where the Chinese are, that's problematic. I am asking you Elvira to have the Committee on European Integration meet and consider this report and to submit a proposal to us on this. We can talk openly about everything, and Serbia is a sovereign and independent country and we will make our own decisions on how to do it. Thank you very much. Now that we don't have any more time, I'm sorry you didn't have time to answer, but we're finishing our work and schedule voting day in three minutes, at 1906. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to take your seats. Before we move to decision-making, just to inform you that at the College, which we have on Tuesday, I would suggest that we take a look at and analyze how this session works on asking parliamentary questions. I think it is much more useful and meaningful to use certain business opportunities, for example, which exist, which is to ask parliamentary questions in certain thematic areas and so on. I think the efficiency of this world should be considered because of the 180 minutes, 39 minutes were spoken by MPs, and 140 minutes were the representatives of the government. I don't mind, but I don't think you're here... The largest parliamentary group has not been able to ask parliamentary questions, which I think is really bad. This is all I wanted to inform you, I think we should do something about it, and we'll consider it at the College session. Before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), Rules of Procedure, the voting day quorum exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 196 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. As we now move to a decision on the proposals of the Law on Confirmation of International Contracts (points 1 and 2 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3) and (6) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing public borrowing and conclusion and confirmation of international contracts, most of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to the first item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Loan Treaty, the project of building broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote: a total of 198, for -196, did not vote - two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving to agenda two. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law confirming Decision 1/2019 of the ESAA of the Joint Committee of 31 July 2019 replacing Annex I of the multilateral agreement between the European Community and its Member States, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the mission of the provisional administration of the United Nations in Kosovo (in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999) establishing a Common European Aviation Area, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: a total of 199, for -198, he didn't vote - one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 (13) and 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly elects judges and other electoral powers by majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the selection of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data- for the protection of personal data, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 199, for – 198, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Allow me to congratulate Sanja Unkovic, on behalf of the MPs, on my behalf, on the choice of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection - for the protection of personal data and to wish her a lot of success in the work. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges elected for the first time in office, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 199, total - 199. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I conclude, I would just like to remind you that I have scheduled for Tuesday, 30 March, at 10.00 p.m. at the next session: The First Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the List of People, Households and dwellings in 2021; The Second Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on Museum Activity; the Third Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges, Fourth Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Maintenance and Reconstruction of Travel Bridges between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina; the Fifth Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Decision on the Announcing of the Old and Rare Library Building for Cultural Goodness and the Sixth Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Decision on the termination of President of the Interstate Court in Negotinotin, the Basic Court of the Court in Novi Pastinom Pastinom Paststststststs, the Court of the General Court of the Court in the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the National Parliaments of the People. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fourth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2021. Thank you very much.
