ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6677	Thank you. The Honorable President of the National Assembly, dear people's representatives, respected MPs, dear colleagues from the ministry, we have a few really important laws ahead of us. I've made one preparation that I could read to you now, but somehow I find it much more effective to present to you in my own words, of course, with the assistance of people, if necessary from my ministry. First, I'd like to refer to the Metro Law. I don't remember working on any project as dedicated as the Metro Law. I'd really like to thank the people sitting here next to me. Dan, the night before and weeks we've been working on it, and it's just the culmination of the activities that were undertaken in the previous period. You know, before I became a minister, even before I got into politics, I imagined things completely differently. I imagined that in the ministry with my political allies, I would have to have the reality that we build every day to fear, to try to make it better, to show it to you, of course, as MPs, and then to the public, how everything we do is more beautiful than what it really is. In reality, something completely different was waiting for me. I've been waiting for an investment wave like it hasn't been seen, if I say for centuries, many will attack me again to exaggerate, but surely in the preceding seventy years, the investment wave we're carrying out now has nothing to compare to. The Metro may be a real example of a project that has been in power since 1971, since it opened up as a topic to this day, constantly moving through, constantly repeating, there is no political furniture that was in power or managed by this country that promised not to take any steps towards building the "Belgrade Metro" and until today, or until a year or two days ago, absolutely nothing was taken, but absolutely nothing. We wrote this law because the existing law that regulates rail systems simply wasn't enough. If we didn't do things right, you're here to sort us out. Keep in mind that we have led the best parallel practice in Europe. This is something we've brought back to us for the first time now, for the first time, we'll be building a metro with us. Prior to this, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed with French companies Egis and the Chinese company Power Teana. Why was that done? The French are the best in the rail systems, simply, they have the most knowledge, the most experience, the most success, and this metro will be built according to the model of the Paris subway, the last line, line 14, completely automated. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to show you five compositions that will be model models. The citizens of Belgrade, of course, will, in special practice, be organised by the city's administration, choose what they want the rail compositions of the subway to look like. We, as well as the bridge in Novi Sad, which will continue on the Boulevard of Europe, did not want us as a republican government to be in a position to choose the Novosadians as to what that bridge would look like. We've set up a city administration, mayor of Novi Sad, and the people who run the Novi Sad to choose them. So we want the citizens of Belgrade to choose how they want to look at these compositions, how they want to be branded. What's important to us is that they be, as we said, the most modern ones, to be rationally invested, and that's why we introduced Chinese partners who can deliver the cheapest, most rational works to us. When we build this subway, we want to have one rational approach. So, we want technology to be the most modern, to be the French companies that are leaders in this, but we don't want that metro to break from luxury, because Serbia, as much as it has grown its economic standard in recent years, we're not in a situation like Saudi Arabia, to invest huge amounts of money in the luxury of the subway itself. Of course, we do not want to allow ourselves to be modeled by some Indian states, which is truly modest. We want this to be a modern, fast, rational and efficient metro, which will serve Belgrade's citizens, which will provide a completely new perspective for the city of Belgrade. Everyone's having a joke right now on the social networks of the car column. The crowds will be even bigger in their perspective. The economic standard has practically doubled in the past six, seven years. What is important and perhaps I should have said first that the possibility of building a metro and the basis on which we build a metro and all infrastructure projects is based on fiscal consolidation, which has enabled economic standards to grow, both states and citizens. We, if we don't build this subway in the next seven, eight years, we're really going to have bigger problems, because people are going to have even more cars. That's the facts. Metro, if you'll excuse me, I would read this, so that you know before this law that the activities are done just to get to the best solution and the most optimal solution for the citizens of Belgrade. Of course, the census, which has been implemented, the number of passengers in public transport and the public transport survey in 2015, the creation of a network of public transport lines of passengers and the definition of the necessary capacity in Belgrade, the update of Belgrade's transport model with traffic surveys of the characteristics of movement, the network of lines and the definition of the necessary capacity for suburban and local transport in Belgrade, the master's plan for transport infrastructure Belgrade, the previous study of eligibility with the general project, the plan for the general regulation of rail systems in Belgrade with the elements of detailed discussion for the first phase of the first stage of the geodetic system metropolis, the environmental protection plan for the corridor of the two metro lines, the previous study of justification with the general project of a hydrotechnical solution of the Makiška polje, the plan for the detailed regulation of the part of the Makiško municipality of Čukar. Why am I telling you this? What I'm saying is that before this law, a huge number of actions have been taken, along with our foreign partners, primarily French partners, who, as I said, are leaders in this on a global scale, so that we can get a quality law, so that tomorrow we can get into quality design. All people who say that the lines are not good, that they are not measured, should be aware of how many acts and what activities are being taken to achieve this optimal solution that will tomorrow be the subway lines, or on the route that will be built by future subway stations. Let me also tell you what will be the first line of "Belgrade Metro", which will go from Železnik, via Makiš, Žarkov, White Waters, Požeška, then the park on Banovo Brdo, Ade Giganija, Fair, Mostar loop, in the Sava Square, where it will cross the second line, Square of the Republic, Skadaria, Danube station, Pančeva Bridge, train station Karaburma, Višnječka, Mirijevski boulevar, seventh high school and last stop is Mirjevo. This is the first line of subways we're going to build from next year to spring. The second line of the metro line starts from the train station in Zemun, over the newly-sad road, the stadium in Zemun, Senjsko Square, Aleksandr Dubček, the municipality of Novi Belgrade, Merkator, Arena, where it will cross with the third line of the subway, which we are now working on an idea solution, the Sava Centre, and it will cross with the Sava Square, as I said, on the first line of the subways, Manjež, Makenzi or Marshall Tolbuhin, as I know it, because I live on the Vrakara and for me it is very important and, if you understand me, the most important future station, Maxima Gorko, Šumatovačka, Vojislav Ilic, Stajska and Mirjevo will cross and, of course, will be the last station and lines one and two lines. We are currently working on an idea solution and a third line, which will run from the quantum market, via Bezhanija, Surčina, Block 61, Gandhi, Block 42, Arena, Ustice, Ports, Square of the Republic, National Assembly, Vešgradska, Prokopa, Autocommande, Vitanovska, shopping center of the Stadium, Brothers Jerkovic, Stepe Stepanović, Trosharina, Banjica. Simply, people, this is really one issue that is of first-class importance not only to Belgrade's traffic infrastructure, but to the property of all citizens of Belgrade, which is private entities, which are business entities. If we don't build this, we permanently limit the development of our city. This government of the Republic of Serbia, the Working Group that makes up the Working Group that runs the Metro project, has the strength. It consists of: Working Group President Sinisa Mali, Vice-President myself, members of the Working Group are representatives of the city of Belgrade. We have the strength to end this in the same way as in previous years, for example, the Belgrade-Cacchak highway was completed. Another eclectic example of the project that has been discussed for 50 years, in which a little has been done, in the same way as we are now doing the Moravian Corridor, we connect Kruševac and Cačak, and among other things, Varvarin, Ćicovac, Trstenik, Vranjčka Banja, Kraljevo. The same way we're talking about the French corridor. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a parallel here. I read on a portal as I came here, people talked, they don't know the price of miles of highways built in Serbia. I can agree with that sentence, but I'm starting from different assumptions. Look, it's not clear to me either how a French corridor, which goes from Novi Sad to Ruma, which has the longest tunnel in Serbia, which has the largest bridge in Novi Sad, is cheaper than a Belgrade bridge on Ada. People say they don't understand the price of miles of highways, and I don't get it. How is it possible that one corridor, which will connect practically half of Vojvodina, I repeat again, the largest 3.5km tunnel through Fruska Gora, which will solve one key issue and open Fruska Gora for the citizens, is ecologically opened, that it can breathe, is cheaper than Mosta's Ada. That's the facts. They've been trying to get us back for a while. There are some things that really remind you of a time like that. Someone apologized to someone again. Yesterday, a president of a country, NATO, of a respected country, of Slovenia, of a friendly country, apologized to us. That really reminds us of a time from 15 years ago, only in reverse roles, when we apologized to the representatives of the countries in the region for things we didn't understand then or now. Why did we apologize? For they had banished the citizens of their countries, and our nationalities to our country, and not once, not twice, it was one festival of apologies that we were present at that time, which was attended by the representatives of our armed forces and in which we were all, in some ways, cornered. It's become a good day for us. Today, as then, we are. Today, like then, we attend with apologies, only they are on a completely different base. Now a representative of a NATO country apologizes why one alliance, which is the most powerful in the world, in history, bombes and attacks a small country, but a brave state, which under these bombs, has forced that alliance to finally sit down at the table and sign a contract that is not as bad as we think it is. Why am I saying this? I'm introducing you to agenda two. In fact, it is part of the united 1st agenda, and it does the Law on building apartments for members of the security service. To tell you the truth, it's one law I'm proud of most. I gave my heart to speed up the work on these apartments. You know, I, as I suppose most of you here and perhaps all of you, especially I think that for the members of the SNS, lived and lived in this country in 1999 when we were exposed to these attacks that we received a single apology yesterday, not only to me as a representative of the government, but as a member of this nation, a member of this country, as a living witness, that our army then defended itself heroically, courageously, not a single metre before the attacks of the aggressors, defending the fundamental principles of our history, our statehood, but also the multiethnicity of our country. We didn't want to go the way Bosnia and Herzegovina and some other countries were going, but we wanted to stay in difficult circumstances and remain a multiethnic state, and we managed to defend ourselves. Today we are on the wave of these economic reforms that have been implemented and fiscal consolidation, when Aleksandar Vukic took the lead in this country, came to the opportunity for those people who were then killed and risked their lives and permanently injured to repay them and not only them, but also for all the members who came after that to send a clear signal that this country respects members of its own army, respects members of its police, respects members of its security services, respects members and members who guard the prisons. They're the only ones who have a chance to compete under more favourable conditions to solve the housing issue, because we know where we live. We know that Serbia is not Portugal, that we can swear in the next 300 years of peace. We expect someone to defend us tomorrow, and in peace we want to feed our army, feed the army today means to give them a roof over their heads. The law was passed a few years ago. This is the President of the Republic's initiative, of course some things have matured to change. We're now building 7,000 apartments. If you'll just let me, I have to read the same thing. A month ago, maybe less, there were already 548 keys in Novi Sad. We're building 1,400 more apartments in Novi Sad. 200 apartments ended in Vranj. About 400 people will be moved to the King and Kragujevac within the next month. By the end of the year it is due to end in Sremska Mitrovica 190 apartments, in Nis yet 190 apartments. Next year we have to end up in Vranje 300 apartments, in Kralje 747, in Kragujevac another 756, in Novi Sad 1.424, in Belgrade another 1,000 apartments, 7,000 apartments only for members of the security services that are here and we expect them to defend this country from all potential aggressors which, of course, we can't even assume at this point, but history has taught us that these circumstances can really be complicated. I'm sorry, I'm going to be very brief, I don't want to usurp your time, I don't want to give myself as a minister in this great House of Power too much authority. You got all the drafts of the law, you had a chance to study them. I would just like to take a brief look at two other laws, also very important, but I apologize for not taking the appropriate time in my presentation, since these two laws are of exceptional importance to the city of Belgrade, the Republic of Serbia and its security and armed forces. If you let me do another parallel, if we came back 15 years ago, the question was whether we had 10 people trained to run tanks, and today we're working on 7,000 apartments that will be safe homes for our soldiers and officers. We today or let's say tomorrow we can be confident that we can sleep peacefully, because our army will sleep peacefully, they will know that her family is safe, taken care of. All members who are in the military today who want to respond to this lofty and honorable occupation tomorrow have a clear signal that this country is taking care of them, that it takes care of its army and police, that it protects the fundamental values of this society, the state, the fundamental values on which this people's history rests, because we will never really be, nor let it be run over, as we did not allow in 1999, and that is why we must be prepared for all these circumstances. Just give me a few more minutes to refer to the law on changes and additions to the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. We continue our alignment with the EU, we address all the legal situations that raise this issue to us. The Danube is Europe's main highway. I would remind you that large investments were made in infrastructure, in water infrastructure. We visited the port of God the other day. Next year we start working at a big port in Belgrade. We're on our way to work at the port of Sremska Mitrovica, Prahova. Simply, the water economy is somehow neglected in all of these amazing infrastructure projects that monitor road and rail investment. We plan to invest 500m euros in water infrastructure projects next year and this year. As you know, last year, DP World, the third largest port operator, entered the Port of Novi Sad. He's doing incredible investments there, and you can already see investments at the dock. I call on you to vote in favour of this legislation that brings us closer to the EU and EU legislation on water traffic. Also, a very important proposal for a law confirming the agreement on the international occasional transport of passengers to buses. This is the Joint Committee established by the Interbus Agreement on the International Periodic Transport of Passengers by Buses. This bill improves the development of international transport and facilitates its organisation and implementation, co-operation in tourism and further liberalisation of transport. If you'll just let me read it, I've also been given the authority to represent the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Documentation and Electronic Identification of Trust Services in Electronic Business. It's a law of trade and tourism jurisdiction. I'd just like to read it for a second and ask you to vote. Legal solutions in the area of trust services are fully in line with European legislation and at a certain percentage applied, in terms of the existence of a market, i.e. trust service providers and identification schemes. It has been established that the level of use of qualified trust services should be increased, given all the benefits that electronic business brings to society. The amendments provided for in the proposal for a law are the establishment of a node allowing cross-border interoperability of registered electronic identification schemes, as well as cross-border identification of a person, ensuring that the infrastructure of electronic identification of one country is linked to the infrastructure of the electronic identification of another country. Also, recognition of electronic identification schemes, lists that comply with Article 9. The IDS Regulation shall be published in the European Commission. Verification of the identity of users of qualified services by means of remote identification when issuing a qualified electronic certificate. Certificates of qualified means for the creation of electronic signatures, i.e. stamps by the ministry, as a transitional solution to the establishment of a body for the assessment of conformity. Terminological changes with the aim of precision of certain existing provisions of the law. Amendments to the laws concerning the use of qualified trust services relate to citizens, businesses and public administration, since it is the intention of all to be to the fullest extent possible users of qualified electronic certificates and identification schemes, but also other qualified services than trust. Thank you, and once again, I invite you to vote for all these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6678	Thank you. Before I give my word to the committee's reporters, I just want to introduce you to our work. Frameworkally speaking, by 17.00 today we will have this joint principled single search on these agenda points. From 17.00 to 19.00 hours we will begin the debate on the selection of members of the REM Council. If we don't finish it today, we'll finish it by 12:00 tomorrow. After that, the debate in particular over amendments that exist on certain laws and after that, in the afternoon, we have a voting day, so tomorrow we'll all be done. The word is Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, the Committee for Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6679	Thank you, President Dacic. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the proposals that today were the subject of debate at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. We delivered to the Assembly a report that they are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia to discuss the proposals in the plural. I want to highlight the importance of building apartments for security forces. I will briefly look back on building apartments in general in Nis from which I come, which I want to set as a good example today, a similar quality of built apartments and respected deadlines. The Assembly of the City of Nis has made a decision relating to the planning acts, i.e. the right of property transferred to the territory of the township of the Red Cross to the Republic, and will continue to work on the planning of the construction of infrastructure, sewage, road, water, and other networks, which is certainly under the obligation of local self-government, in order to enable the construction of apartments planned and financed by the Republic. I would also like to remind you of a programme, which is a programme of supporting persons who, for social, economic and other reasons, are not able to solve their own resources with a residential need for market conditions, which means continuing to build apartments in three new buildings at the Mayakovski site in Nis. New 106 apartments of different structures have been designed, of which 90 are for sale, and 16 apartments are intended for rent. At the moment, it is the largest project of the species in Serbia, a gross area of about 9,000 square meters. There is an even bigger project in preparation for Nis at a new location, on the Ice Rock, which will include as many as 150 apartments. The sale price is set according to the provisions of the House and Building Maintenance Act and is about 750 euros per square square, as it is the first buyers, and VAT returns to all for the purchase of the first property. This means that the price of apartments is about 30% lower than the market price of apartments of the same quality in this location. As for the lease, the price of the lease is 1.62 euros at a discount of 5% for those who regularly settle obligations, which means that you can rent an apartment of 50 square meters in Nis for about 70 euros, which is certainly 50% more favourable than the price of renting the apartments of this structure at the same location. I wanted to make a parallel today between a sustainable apartment and building apartments for members of the security forces. I took this example because there was an ongoing competition with the City Housing Agency in Nis for newly built dwellings and because there are data that even three years ago, security forces who bought apartments with subsidized loans from the Serbian Army appeared in the competition. At this point, there are six or seven families that have applied, where demands have just been filed by employees of the military or the police, which makes up about 20% of these housing units. Therefore, interest is high, both in non-security forces and in those who are members of the security forces, so also in the framework of the sustainable housing programme. Building apartments for security forces alone is a good solution to meeting the housing needs of members and their families. Only on the Nis case can I say that I want to support this proposal, as well as other proposals that are in front of us today, which have been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6680	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. The word is made by the rapporteur of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6681	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, is today a great honor to be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and a resident of the city of Belgrade. During today's day, for the first time in this house, we will discuss the proposal for a law on subways and city railways. A law that will certainly introduce a new chapter in Serbia and Belgrade's history as its capital. The idea of building a Belgrade subway is decades old and has remained incomplete from decade to decade for various reasons, but today this idea is the closest to realisation. Realisation of this project will greatly affect both creating a better picture and lifestyle, as well as a picture of Belgrade as a modern European metropolis. Serbia and Belgrade definitely deserved a newer and more modern form of traffic, which will contribute to the rapid development of all parts of Belgrade, with a clear potential for building new business and housing complexes. The idea of building and developing a metro is 70 years old and the first conceptions of this idea were still in 1950, to continue from decade to decade, until today when we are witnessing that we are in this home discussing the proposal for a law on subways and city railways. Realisation of the start-up of the subway construction and development project, as one of the safest, most efficient and most reliable modes of traffic, is planned for the end of 2021 and just by passing this law we create preconditions for this difficult and complex undertaking. The project envisions the construction of two subway lines, the first of the Railways towards Miriev, as well as the second line connecting Mirieva and Zemun. When we see such a plan, which is, above all, realistic and feasible, I am very pleased that the future subway lines will connect the territory of five Belgrade municipalities, which will contribute to faster and more efficient passenger transport. Also, the planned completion of the first line of subways was planned for 2028, and the project was planned to be completed in 2033. When we see the planned, or planned lengths of these subway routes of 22 or 19.2 kilometers, it says that the goal of this project is to connect all the most important parts of the city, in order to have the largest number of residents of these parts of Belgrade. Certainly this project involving the government of the Republic of Serbia, the resolution ministry and the City of Belgrade as a local self-government is extremely complex and requires the realization of a more phase. The project itself includes the land supply phase, the supply of necessary building permits, as well as the implementation of public procurement in order to obtain a safe and secure view of traffic. The most important question to be answered by the adoption of this bill is what Belgrade and Belgrade get through the introduction of the metro system. Here I would like to remind the citizens of Belgrade that the number of passengers transported in 2010 amounted to nearly 650, so that in 2019 the number of passengers transported amounted to nearly 900 000 and that half of these transported passengers were transported by bus. Certainly, what Belgrade and Belgrade will get is the introduction of a subway system, i.e. it will get a modern, efficient and tailored traffic system with a special security and accuracy accent. This system will certainly allow for the acceleration of life and business processes, will allow for the construction of new housing and business complexes, as well as the possibility for new domestic and foreign investment. Also, we will contribute to reducing traffic jams, with a special emphasis on environmental protection due to the reduction in emissions of harmful gases. The project will cost six billion euros and the funds will be provided from both the Republic budget and the City of Belgrade's cash register as local self-government. The project itself will contribute to an increase in GDP, but what is much more important is that the construction of the entire infrastructure will certainly affect the increase in the average cost of real estate that exists and will be built near the metro itself. One thing I want to point out is that after building a subway in Santiago, Chile, after building a subway, the average cost of real estate was increased by 7.4%. Certainly the metro project is a project that will separate us from many countries in the region, but what I would like to point out is that the metro project was also promised by the former republican and city authorities, headed by Dragan Gilas. It was then promised that the first line of the subway would be built in 2017, but we are all witnessing that this subway and that first line are not even on the map. So in 2021, when Alexander Vukic and SNS are at the head of the state, we are today discussing the proposal for a subway law. At the end of 2021, the construction of the subway will begin, and passengers will be able to drive on the first line of the subway in 2028. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6682	Thank you. We're moving on to authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has the vice president of the National Assembly, Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6683	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and other representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, is today ahead of us a set of laws on construction and traffic. It's a very important topic. In fact, building and communicating primarily traffic communications is a definition to measure the success of a nation, a nation, if you want through history, of a civilization. So if you evaluate various civilizations through human history, actually on two things you'll do the easiest thing, see what they've built, and see how their paths, traffic and communication have been, in general, and you can tell if it was a successful big civilization or not. In a deeper cultural-civilization sense, you can actually divide people as well as peoples, cultures, groups, communities, nations into those who build and those who don't build or destroy. So that's what the basic definition or line of separation is in quality itself. That is why this topic not only in the procedural technical sense, but in a deeper cultural and civilizational perspective deserves special attention. In particular, how many nations or states have the capacity to maintain a course, intensity and dynamics of construction and in times like our present-day pandemics and all these trials that this pandemic produces, which actually blocks most nations and states into a state of emergency, where in fact life is usually brought down to survival and preservation of the elemental conditions of life. To have the strength then to build, to go into progress of building, raising important construction facilities, projects primarily travel, communication, in this case metros as a historic venture for the city of Belgrade, but also in a symbolic and real sense for the whole country, in fact, that is what personally gives me and my associates an additional impulse of confidence and confidence that we are turned in the right direction in the developmental, and above all by building but general civilizational sense. So the civilization of a nation and state is measured by capacity, by its capacity of construction. The culture of a nation, of a community, of an empire, of a group is measured by the power of words, above all by written words. But construction is more than just civilization, and when we look at the development path of construction we'll see that they're actually the biggest or, if they can tell, the teachers of architecture were actually artists first. Leonardo Da Vinci and Michelangelo were first and foremost architects, and only then were painters, artists, poets, so the thunders of human and culture and civilization. It means a great lesson to me, not only about the enthusiasm of them personally but it's a great lesson to me that actually building is more than concrete, more than iron, more than money, more than what we materially see in the city. Of course, through human history construction developed as did the peoples, as well as their cultures through various styles, and it passed various experiments. Some construction styles have given certain results, some have not, some have been reduced, some have survived, some have never become obsolete, some have never been outdated, they have always been modern, but if today we analyze all these building styles through human history we'll actually see that those building styles, those approaches in the building industry that they had at the center of their motive, their inspirations and all of human planning, they've actually become super-temporary, they're even super-space and they're not exceeded. So you can see this today if you're still dealing with the development of architecture in terms of not only professionally, but even trendy, so today in various magazines when you choose, I don't know, the most beautiful houses in the world today you'll actually see that out of the five most beautiful houses are four selected with styles of classical, antique, 500, 600, 700 or 1,000 years ago. If you go a little deeper into the quality of this architecture and these constructions, you will definitely find that the common denominator is what I'm talking about. In fact, the humanity and humanity of construction, that's what particularly impresses me, and that's why I understand through the prism how important it was to the gromats, like the mentions of Michelangelo and Leonard Da Vinci, that actually they add so much importance to the construction that they actually experienced, the design of the building and the complete design of the planning itself, which was their key inspiration and attention, up to the actual construction itself. So if such art profiles didn't actually consider it beneath their honor to deal with the building it actually represents for human civilization, the whole culture is a specific message of how important it is to build. In order for the construction to even enter the competitiveness of something good and successful, building planning is actually the first and key step, and it is very important for me to give the importance of the Law on Planning and Construction again, especially on planning, because I think that in our near past, if we look at various failures, we will also find concrete failures in construction, but key failures and key shortcomings, long-term construction shortages that are now and very difficult to correct in many segments are actually the wrong construction planning. That's what I want to draw attention to and the responsible people in the ministry because they're definitely in a position to be builders with this kind of orientation of the whole state and the government and the whole system. It is a great honor and a great opportunity to simply get a chance to be a minister, to be on his team when it comes to this wave of building with such orientation, but certainly it implies and that honor always follows the responsibility of how much honor is and how much honor grows to every man, so does his responsibility. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the importance of planning. Of course, when it comes to new projects, big projects don't have any dilemma, I follow it so thoroughly that it takes care of the quality of planning. I don't have any grudges here. But what we are permanently pointing to is the need for it to be right that the sun will heat the strongest in Belgrade, which is by definition the fact that it is the metropolis, that it is the capital city, that it is the greatest energy. It's undeniable, but don't let the rays of the sun get to every periphery of this country, because if some parts of this country remain unsanitary, then they'll fail, then they won't be what we want them to be because the state is like a human body. If the whole body is healthy, including her periphery and her head is calm. If your fingernail hurts, your head can't be calm, even though you consider your fingernail an extreme that isn't so important, it can even be restored, but if your head hurts, it's restless. The head can't sleep. In fact, when we have in a political sense this kind of thinking and this kind of reasoning, but above that and that kind of responsibility that is very important to us each part, from the extreme periphery of Pryboja, Prepolje, to the apple itself and Brodareva, then the parts to Presevo, and there further to Danilovgrad, etc., to the far north, not to count, you all know all the parts of our wish. So when we have a responsibility and a dynamic feeling, the real dynamic sense of what's going on in all these parts we're going to actually show the health of the whole body, but also the strength of the head and the strength of the heart that actually pumps all that energy that needs to come to an extreme extreme. Of course, what we, as I said, are infused and trusted, hope and optimism is that these major projects take care of it, and that is why large highway corridors, such as Corridor 10, are now Corridor 11 which is particularly interesting to us because it passes through the cave and connects us south towards Montenegro, as well as plans to work the highway towards BiH, towards Sarajevo. So these are openings that are pre-meditated to me, which are superior, which will not only open new opportunities in the development sense, which for me represent something new that will have reflections for the next 300 and 500 years. So these are big things, but what shouldn't happen to us is that in addition to major projects, we allow some people who have certain responsibilities at the local site to abuse the state's attention, the government's attention, the attention of the top authorities on major projects, and then there's a variety of deviations going on at the place. My experience, for example, from the New Market when it comes to building looks like this. On the one hand, I'm happy to see a kind of construction invasion happening in New Market, and that's good. So, nothing happens every day, and those parts of the city that were completely neglected, which were unedited, so they knocked down homes with bad infrastructure, narrow streets, juicers, etc. Now they get a chance to rebuild themselves, to emerge again in a modern way, of course, provided they don't endanger those parts of the city that have monumental values, which unfortunately happens, which is also to be indicated, to be accounted for, and that, for example, one Lejlek mosque, one of the oldest mosques, one very small mosque located in the narrow center of the city, which has historical significance, which was built there and before Sultan Mehmed Spatih passed through Sandzak and went to Bosnia. So, it has an extremely great historical importance, and now you're going to see as laity you're going to see how the huge buildings within a dozen meters of it just went above that object. That's not good. So it's not good that it allows city, irresponsible city authorities to actually use certain cracks in the law, or to unaccountably edit themselves by making some of their own decisions, some of their own regulations, or find certain legal opportunities to actually endanger monuments, as well as cultural and historical monuments themselves. Of course, for those parts of the city that have no such monumental value, it's logical that the restoration is good. It's a good thing it's being built, and it's an impression that's positive for me. But what is not positive is what I see for myself, but what the citizens are coming to me, and they're keeping me informed, that we have an irresponsible relationship with building planning, with regard to granting permits where and how much to build. Let's say you go to the street on March 8th. It's a street that actually starts from the narrow center of town, so it goes further towards the bus station, a one-way street, which has four meters wide with a parking possibility on both sides. So that street was built, I mean, at least a dozen residential buildings, residential buildings, none less than five, six floors, for example. So imagine now such a narrow street, with so many buildings. How far away the buildings are from the sidewalk itself it's really something you won't believe if I tell you until you come to see, and I'm not talking about almost any of these buildings having a problem with parking or having it symbolically, so some dozen garage seats in the building that are clearly determined whose are. So, we had one mahale where people normally lived in narrow one-story or two-story houses, and now we have a ten-year change in which several thousand people will move in. What about the problem of solving the parking space? It was never clear to me that there was some tax, certain rules, whether local or republican, I'm not sure, which pays, so the builders, or investors, pay certain taxes, certain money to the municipal administration, in this case the city administration. So unless they have a clear parking space, they pay the municipal administration to solve their parking space, and they take that money, and they never solve anything. So, it doesn't happen at all, there's no answer from the City Administration to give you a building permit and tell you your parking lot for that building, for that number, so the residents of that building will be there. No, it's the same one-way street that's gonna take dozens or dozens of cars on its sidewalks. It's terrible, it's already bordering on the elemental possibility of pedestrian communication and of course car communication. Not to say that there are more accidents, pedestrian threats, children, because these children have no place to breathe, and I'm not saying that the entire New Market with 120,000 inhabitants has one city park that's so scrawny on many sides, that's as specific as the catering and what kind of projects. Now we have this recreational center that's the only vent for a city of 120,000 inhabitants. We don't have a single apartment block or a green rate, or a child's game rate. Please, that's what I want to point to. We need to increase our attention, not stick to it, it's just local government, she's doing it. So we need to have a second level of control, have control of the republican organs. Finally, this parliament is also the highest legislative body to play a supervisory role. We are obliged as MPs, citizens speak to us, we are obliged to do this. So I call on the ministry to deal with these issues, and you know that there is no space more interesting to the discipline of crime and government than it is to build. So it's something that's so tempting that it's there when you're completely awake, when you're determined to prevent it, it's very difficult to prevent, let alone when we fail and leave it to some local powers, local structures, especially in culture that are very close to certain criminal structures. So this is about something that really, if allowed, continues, if it continues to be tolerated, it won't be possible to correct it. You know how difficult it is to solve the problem of wild construction of small objects, let alone when you have 10 buildings of eight, six or ten floors. So that's where the attention needs to be increased. First of all, in checking local acts that bring city or municipal administrations, whether these rules are right, whether they are in accordance with higher laws. I think there are certain gaps, and then there's control of these acts themselves, but there's also other legal norms. With that remark, certainly the MPs of the SPP will support these laws. We consider them very important, with joy both on the subway and on these building laws, there is no time left to talk about the importance of traffic, especially bus traffic on which Novi Pazar and Sandzak are based. You know we have a lot of carriers driving to Istanbul, Western Europe because of perhaps the most numerous Sanjay diaspora located in the west and Turkey. It is very important for us to encourage this law to further develop bus traffic, i.e. by means of an agreement signed, or ratified to facilitate these people to work successfully, in accordance with the law, and above all in accordance with the interests of citizens, or passengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6684	Thank you. The word has Minister Momirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6685	Thank you. Dear Mr. Zukorlic, I answered, and you weren't finished with the whole thought. Basically, you said everything. I would like once again to underline that we are today discussing the law on subways and other important laws, but the orientation of this government is primarily turned to even development. You know that our commitment is to sign the contract very quickly and that how long until the end of this year or early next year we start working on the highway from Požega to Bolar, which is of the utmost importance for the city of Novi Pazar, Sjenica and for all municipalities in that part of Serbia. So, as a result of every economic growth, all major investment is best felt by those who, I say, are the richest. Knowing this, we channel most of the investment into the central part of Serbia, all highways, practically Belgrade's metro is one exception to the huge infrastructure projects now being implemented in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You said, we plan to build the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, not plan, we build. In this northern part of Kuzmin via Sremska Raca, we had intensive talks yesterday in BiH on how to proceed from Bijeljina, then one step to Banjaluca, the other to Tuzla, Sarajevo. For us, BiH is the most important economic partner, as well as Montenegro, those are the countries with which we have the largest economic surplus. We're working on it seriously. We are working intensively on projecting the work of Požega through Užic and Kotoman, and I believe that, according to the contract, we should finish it next year, but I expect that this year we will already have something to decide when we can start that investment. This very demanding investment in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is 60km on a very difficult ground. Somehow, I didn't even know investment in infrastructure projects was so demanding. Only in part from Chačka to Požega 40% of those shares are tunnels and bridges. We have finished the railway from Belgrade to Valjev as part of the railway from Belgrade to Vrbnica, which is part of the Belgrade-Bar railway, and we are practically preparing everything, we are projecting, so that we can take the track from Valjev to the end. But we're already on our way to reconstructing the railroad on Stojan's bridge, I think that's the area of the Pryboy municipality. A good part of these things you said I can agree to, I can conditionally accept them, and as you said, it's mostly the jurisdiction of the local authorities, but we're not hiding behind it. We don't run to intervene at all, even politically, to try to focus, to help. I have to say this, I've already repeated it here at this pay phone, and we're not happy with how the tour works around the New Market are going. We're not happy with how they're going, it's not just local jurisdiction, it's also republican jurisdiction. We're going through a lot of trouble about this project, and if it doesn't start to develop into a better plan, we're going to have to take some more cutting-off measures. Also, I would like to inform you, I had a meeting with Deputy Mayor of the New Market and the Dean of the Transport College in Belgrade, where I tried to direct them, that the New Market is necessary to do one traffic study, because according to all the projections, Novi Pazar will be a growing city and we have to think about it, not that reality keeps hitting us with problems that when they come up, it's very difficult to deal with and very difficult to solve. So I repeat again, Novi Pazar, Western Serbia, as well as southern Serbia as northern Serbia, no part of this country has been neglected. If we keep going like this, and I'd remind you, growth in the right quarter of the building is 20%. Our projected growth in the second quarter of the building will be 40%. In GDP growth in the first quarter of 1.2% of two-thirds of the building. If we keep this investment pace, we'll be in one problem next year that this country has never had in its history, that we'll have to cool our economy. It's one reality that we, I'm not sure we know how to deal with. We've always been able to generate new investments, start new investments. We are now facing an objective problem, we do not have the right number of workers, that Serbia as once was 200 years ago becomes a country where people come to find a job. That's the facts. Construction workers' salaries increased significantly in the previous period. They grew the most in the Republic of Serbia. We don't have any engineers today who don't have a job, whether machine, whether construction, whether electrical, about traffic engineers not to talk, the demand for them is amazing. We at the Ministry have this problem. Thank you for supporting these laws. Huge investments are heading towards Novi Pazar, towards Prepolje, we end up part of Novi Pazar-Tutin's serious highway, very important for that part of the country. So, the definition of this country is even economic development. It's not just a phrase, it's visible in every piece, and in that direction we'll continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6686	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been authorised by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Mr Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6687	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected assistants, co-workers of the Minister, respected representatives of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, I will first talk about amendments to the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business, because I believe this law is very important. It is my intention, not only to explain through these amendments and the additions of the laws why we should support these changes and additions, but also to point to what was well done in the previous period. We passed this law just over three and a half years ago and it was an excellent law at that moment which in a comprehensive way regulated this area which was not as well regulated as now. I will remind you, then the minister was Mr. Rasim Ljajic, and it is indeed a great success when we speak in the field of electronic business of an unusual form of business. We can now conclude that we have made concrete progress over the past three and a half years. Indeed progress has been made in practice and this is seen in the data. Before 2017, i.e. the moment we passed this law of only 5% of the population, some 300,000 citizens of Serbia used electronic signature services, i.e. they had an electronic signature certificate. Now that number's increased by more than double. More than 850,000 certificates for electronic signature have been issued at the moment, and 614,422 certificates are active. This shows us that we have created good conditions and that we are gradually moving from classical to electronic business, i.e. to using more and more, Serbia's citizens are actually increasingly using the services provided to them to achieve benefits in this field. This way, by adopting these amendments and by supplementing the law, we remove certain obstacles that have existed so far and achieve a multiple benefit. We will now move faster, more efficient and cheaper to carry out certain activities. This is a benefit on the one hand in the first place for citizens, second, of course for businessmen and, of course, the benefit for the public administration. It is necessary to work to increase the level of use of qualified services from trust and, in this respect, to observe the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business. It is very important to make simple use of qualified certificates, and therefore it is important that we talk about simplifying certain applications that will allow the use of certificates, that providers allow for long-distance signing, and that I will talk about it a little later, and in this sense it is important that we recognise the importance of modern technologies, the particular importance of mobile phones. I think that when we introduce it in a good way and when citizens, in particular, adopt it to the businessmen, we're going to massage the use of qualified electronic signatures. Our legal framework has been agreed in this area with the legal framework applicable in EU countries, and this has also been taken into account when this law is passed. Now these amendments and additions of the law actually mean recognition of the electronic identification scheme from the list published by the European Commission. It is also related to the establishment of the so-called so-called The knot, as we have translated it. This actually enables cross-border interoperability of registered electronic identification schemes. What does that mean exactly? It means that in the field of telecommunications it is necessary to create such conditions that heterogeneous systems function compatiblely, that they are consistent with each other and that they can function within the standards prescribed at one higher level. The establishment of this "node" will enable adequate use of electronic identification schemes. When we add the possibility to verify the identity of users through remote identification, a quality basis for cross-border co-operation will be built. Until now, someone could have become a service user only with a personal presence or with a public identification at a distance. Now these amendments to the law give new solutions. The new solution allows our, but also foreign citizens to obtain a certificate from the service provider in Serbia and use it to access e-Government services, but also for all activities related to electronic business. This is particularly important for our citizens, or citizens of Serbia, who are working or living abroad, because they can use electronic identification schemes from a list published by the European Commission and thus have access to electronic services in Serbia. When we talk about amendments and additions to this law, which is very complex and very abstract, abstract in terms of when we read its provisions, but I must stress that application in practice is very specific and very useful. As useful as it is, we could see last year, when there was a crisis over the pandemic of the coronary virus. At that time we could see exactly who was in advantage, who had already used certain benefits from this area, and who needed more time to switch to one of these forms of business. People were then forced to move from classical to electronic business in all areas of society. Simply, the situation was such that both citizens and businessmen had to manage to come out of this crisis with as little damage as possible, to get through the crisis better, and all those who used this type of service were able to overcome the crisis in the best possible way, because they themselves were referred to some kind of electronic business. Unfortunately, we have found that many have unpreparedly welcomed the crisis and that there has been an expression of insufficient use of electronic certification. It was easier for all those who had already used a qualified electronic certificate to move on to a new form of business. I must point out that in previous years, precisely because of the application of the law, this area has been clearly improved, that the process of modernising public administration has continued, that citizens have become available and safer services provided to them by public administration. I'm going to make a comparison and an analysis of the situation from three to four years ago and the situation that is now, to show actually where we've made concrete progress. It used to be a complicated procedure to activate an electronic signature. Namely, whoever wanted to do this had to have a special card, had to have a special reader for that card, had to have installed software. Then there was a problem when the software was installed and it could take hours. Also, there could have been problems during software use, and that's something people said, what was really happening to them, they had such problems, so the procedure was complicated. This law has allowed simpler procedures and more efficient use. Also, a qualified electronic signature gave users the opportunity to sign an electronic document via their mobile phone. It was enough for someone to have a username, to have a password and therefore get the PIN that they need to tap into their cell phone, and so they can activate and use electronic signature. Thus, a qualified electronic signature became equivalent to a handwritten signature in real life. I had to stress this, because I have the impression that many still do not understand the importance of this kind of business, that there is still a certain delay when we talk about electronic business and how we can use all the benefits it provides. It has been well solved and in practice, recognition of the fullness and evidence power of the electronic signature, that is, every electronic document. In addition to being the same evidence force as the usual document, conversion is possible. For example, we can now scan a paper document, convert it into an electronic form, and it will have the same evidence power as that document that's in paper form that's being scanned. We can conclude that the digitalisation process itself that has been successfully implemented in Serbia has contributed to reducing the use of documents in paper form and makes it largely easier for business people to search, but also to publish certain documents. Once again, I must refer to the question of trust that Serbian citizens, or businessmen, have in electronic business. I don't think that question should be questioned now, in this situation, with one of these legal solutions. There are about three levels of security – basic, medium and high level. Each level of protection is foreseen for certain activities. For example, if we want to get a copy of the birth certificate, we need a username and password for such a document. If we want to move to a higher level, a more confidential document, we need a username, a password, and we add either a fingerprint over a mobile phone or a text message that we can confirm that, or, say, to confirm by email. I'm stressing again - it's the safest protection. The safest degree of protection is through electronic signature, and in fact it is its greatest force. We are thus achieving the highest level of reliability and there is sufficient argument that citizens can use this opportunity to carry out their activities. In the time in which we live, it became normal for scientific and technological achievements, i.e. innovation, to take a step ahead of legal solutions. So we need to predict what's going to happen in the future, to sort of regulate it either by amending and supplementing the law or by sublegal acts, in order to function normally, in an effective way. I just read one news this morning, say, as far as it goes. Here, Google wants to get rid of the pasford by the end of this year. They want to get rid of password-based logs and focus on biometric alternatives. Since 2022, people have played a role through fingerprints after their applications and thus believe that they will strengthen the system of protection, prevent the hacking of profiles and solve certain code problems. I listed this as just one indicator of how the world thinks and what step we take when we talk about scientific and technological achievements. Also, whenever there are doubts about this kind of business, I have to stress that we will increasingly turn to this kind of business, that we have to lead to continuity of a kind of media campaign, that we have to work to raise citizens' awareness of all of this, to point out the importance of electronic business and all the benefits that are provided in this area. We could see that, therefore, all that progress in the field of telecommunications that was made in the previous period was also good when the crisis started last year because of the pandemic of the coronary virus and we saw how important all those platforms that we had at our disposal were, above all, in the field of education because the online teaching was organized and thus brought to a successful end the school year. Other amendments and additions to the laws I will speak of are amendments and additions to the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the Security Forces. This is the second time we've discussed amendments and additions to the law and both times justified. That is why MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support changes and additions to this law, as well as others on the agenda. For the first time, we have made it possible for fighters, families of fallen fighters and military disabled people to compete for apartments built for the same purposes. At that time, we further specify the conditions of the competition and I believe that in this way, at that moment, we have corrected one injustice, we have entrenched that law and we have put a social dimension into it. Realisation of this project is important on the one hand, because all those who can compete for these apartments, they will, on favourable terms, resolve their housing issue, get a roof over their heads. On the other hand, this is important for strengthening the overall national security system, because we are systemically solving one issue, housing complexes are being built at the same time in different parts of Serbia, in different cities and municipalities, and I believe that there will be more and more apartments in the foreseeable period, in which people who compete for these places will be able to move in. When we talk about it, I must also commend the responsible approach of people who run cities and municipalities, who are in local self-government, because they have done everything that is up to them, to make realisation run smoothly. They were obliged to provide a plan document or other urban and technical documents on the basis of which the location conditions and the building permit solution are issued. They all did it on time, they got all the necessary documentation, so the construction started as planned. Building apartments will also have positive effects on the entire economy. This investment is a wink for one branch, such as construction. It's a branch economy that must have suffered a special blow two decades ago, and it's just been reborn in Serbia over the last few years. This will have an additional positive impact, as domestic construction operations will be employed, as the law provides for domestic firms to participate in building apartments for security forces. The benefit will also be provided by traders, i.e. the sellers of construction material, and thus provides for what everything must be purchased according to the specification. I think the quota is about 80% specification. The benefit will have cities and municipalities, on whose territory these apartments are built, because they will all, in the future, collect incomes from property taxes. It is logical to build kindergartens, schools and to build a traffic infrastructure near these residential complexes to meet the needs of people living there. With these amendments and amendments to the law, it is also specified who has the priority to compete for the purchase of apartments in Belgrade and Novi Sad's territory. It is quite understandable what changes and additions of laws apply to this. We just knew at the beginning that there would be the greatest demand for apartments built in Belgrade and Novi Sad, as large cities, these are attractive locations. We may have been able to define those criteria at first, but it's not too late now. It's a good thing we're on our way to solving these questions, because it's a good thing we're on time, so there's no misunderstanding later. Perhaps Minister Momirovic has information from the field, about the dynamics of construction, since there was a pandemic delay, you know what they say – a man plans, God laughs at him, were such circumstances that last year had to come to a standstill. We expect everything to go according to plan, that the current deadlines set will be respected, but that those standards concerning quality building of apartments will also be respected. If we keep this pace, about 7,000 families will solve the housing issue in two years, which I think is one big success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6688	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the JS parliamentary group, Mr Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6689	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, with my associates, I would like to introduce you, as an authorised representative, in front of the JS parliamentary group, on issues that are on the agenda today, before the law talks, to inform and introduce you to Dragan Markovic Palma, otherwise the president of the JS parliamentary group, and all related to public harassment by the false affairs of Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic. I quote: "They refused my call to TV duel bully Dragan Djilas and his worker Marinika Tepic because they know they're lying, and for a lie they go to jail. They even refused to call on TV N1. They didn't file charges against me, I filed charges against them. I want the process conducted in institutions, but I also care about the court of the public, the court of Serbia. I'm from Koncharev, not the Freedom and Justice Party. I call them again, go to the cameras, go to the public on any television, anywhere, anywhere, and see what you're up against, and what I'm up against. On her Twitter warrant, bully Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic rejected my call to a TV duel that I sent her and her boss, the bully, Dragan Gilas, and invited them to a TV duel on any television, anywhere, and that includes their media and any media, can also be found on TV Mauricias, can also be found in Strasbourg and Brussels, wherever they want. I got a call from N1 and I accepted, and they refused, even N1. Go to the cameras, go to the public court, but not at mounted press conferences, where you lie all the time, and as your main argument again is the lie of your party official, otherwise, criminal, thief, car thief, but go to the cameras with me and you, Gilasa and Tepic. But you won't because you know you lied to everyone and because you know that there won't be your criminal to falsely testify, but there will be me who so far have written and reasoned denied both me and the prosecution and the police and all the people you mentioned. I want the process to be conducted in institutions, but I also care about the court of the public, the court of Serbia, because I am from Končarov, not from the Freedom and Justice Party. In front of the cameras in a direct TV duel, you can't scramble, you can't hide the characters, you and I can hide the eyes in the eyes." The president of JS, Dragan Markovic Palm, said today. "Storage worker Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, refuses TV duel says that I should answer before the court, not her, but Gilas and Tepic, you have not filed criminal charges against me, because you know that all that you have said so far is a heavy lie, and for such lies you are going to jail. I filed criminal charges against Marinika Tepic, against your false criminal witness against Sanda Raskovic Ivic. They filed a criminal report against Marinika Tepic against 393 women from Jagodina, as well as JP "Standard" from Jagodina. For you, Marinika Tepic is a place in prison for lying, for disturbing, for spreading panic in Serbia," Markovic said. "There are no charges against me, but it has against Dragan Gilas for violence in his own family. He was reported by his wife, Eva Gilas, that he had beaten her and her father, in front of their children, and that he had said to her at that time; I will cut off your head. So, in the case of bully Dragan Gilas, there is a police report and a direct witness and victims and reports from the emergency center on injuries and death threats to his wife. Such an application was in someone's drawer from 2014 to 2019. After five years, Dragan Gilas has denied it. You can't deny it, you can't make a deal with your ex-wife and I understand her in that situation because of the kids, but you're a proven bully and that case has to be prosecuted and it doesn't get old. You beat your wife and father-in-law in front of your children and threatened your wife's death. And you're gonna be the bully to attack me today, and you're gonna show up as the supposed protector of women. Serbian citizens should know, it was not the bully Dragan Djilas and his worker, Marinika Tepic, who spoke to the court, but me. I ask our judicial authorities in which I believe, to speed up this process and say who is lying and to let whoever is lying go to prison and to gradually report to Marinika Tepic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and their protected witness, criminal, Branislav Radosavljevic," Markovic said. Now I can only personally tell them that they've played a lot of games and they'll end up getting really what they're looking for. I had to introduce you to this announcement, and now I'm going back to the bill. All the laws that are on the agenda today are serious laws, they're good laws. You explained them at the beginning some and very detailed and I will, without some order of importance, start to explain them. The first law is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for security members. This is a subject that is in a small part of the public, and it's very important that I say, in a small part of the public, it's come across criticism. Not for criticism, but for criticism. Any well-intentioned person, when he gives you criticism, you can understand and react to it. You can't react to criticism. What's this about? They say -- why the army, why the security forces, why not someone else? And we humans have for the first time the possibility of dividing 7,000 apartments in a shorter period of time, 7,000 families can solve their biggest issue of life in this way, which is a housing issue. No one, not one moment said this might not be done in the future with doctors, perhaps even educational workers and so on. It is important that Aleksandar Vucic recognized the problem, it is important that he launched an initiative that is already largely in realisation, which refers to 7,000 families. And we from the Single Serbia, we are publicly saying that this is great what it is and that is certainly one of the reasons why we vote for this law. We need to be realistic and aware of the fact that the military faces and fighters in Serbia have really been going through difficult situations and wars, that the state may not have met them in full capacity every time, but what we are doing today is identifying this problem and this is a small, modest way for these people to be able to repay as a country. We have always waged defensive wars, it is very important to say, not only because of our citizens, our children, our future, but because of everyone else who has sinned against Serbia. I don't want to talk about the suffering, the suffering and the suffering of the civilian population, but either way, if this is one way to repay the fighters and members of the security sector in Serbia, this is the right way. On the other hand, this kind of construction, since you here, first of all, represent the builders in this room today, this construction can also be stimulating for all our construction firms. We used to be recognizable in the world by construction companies that also worked in third world countries too seriously. Our builders were respected in Europe, respected and recognized everywhere in the world. Unfortunately, Minister, what we're dealing with today is a lack of these construction workers. That's what you said earlier, not only do we miss engineers, we miss those workers, the builders, meaning people with serious experience who can speed up or slow down a certain process on the site. I think that idea from these 7,000 apartments, of course, and like I said, about which, first of all, you government ministers all need to think, that in some period we do the same thing for doctors, that we do this for educators or whatever other profession, you can also stimulate the construction industry in Serbia. Indisputable and we all talk about how much we do when it comes to highways. Today is one of the theme and the subway. So these are all too serious investments and too much engagement and physical labor besides all the machines. Today we have a situation where Chinese workers work in Serbia. The idea with the methroom is, of course, that this one overly serious project has just led a Chinese construction operation, but what we have to do is to stimulate more and more kids in high schools, to opt for the road to construction. Maybe at some point, it's free to say, at some point, it's a profession that's in itself physically very difficult, put on some side, but today we come up with that kind of market workers on the ground don't have a price. It's getting harder to get to them. As far as the technicals themselves are concerned, when it comes to these apartments, which are squares, what are the floorings, etc. I have no doubt that this was done by the waist. I've read this, I think I'd waste my time discussing it here. So, generally when we talk about the law, this is a great law, and the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support it. When we talk about the subway, me and all of us who come from the interior, we look forward to building a subway in Belgrade. Trust me. Maybe, even more than you live here, because every time we come to work, or some other things, we meet up with the situation, big traffic jams, insufficient parking spots, it slows down some processes. People who come from the inside, some times and don't have the means to stay, to spend the night, but simply finish their jobs, and go back to where they came from. So by building this subway, I think Belgrade is definitely going to be one too serious metropolis. Every time I went to some world-class metropolis, when I was getting into the subway, I suffered for it like that, because Belgrade doesn't have a subway. Of course, we are aware of the investment and the project that one such investment carries with it. Here we finally welcome that something concrete, as you say, is working on the subway issue. I used to watch those movies, science fictions, so when someone tells me 2021, 2028, then 2033, it seemed real to me like some kind of universe, so somehow time flies fast. I used to have that, and when someone says you're 45 years old, I'm old, and today when I say, I'm 45, they say they're the best years. So, this time has passed. We came to these space years, and in 2028, as planned, the first line should be completed, and in 2033, to finish a complete metro in Belgrade. As for the JS parliamentary group, I don't have to repeat it anymore, I said at the beginning, we certainly don't feel jealous of Belgrade, but we have a desire like everyone in the interior, that this metro gets started as soon as possible. Once again what may be important for the citizens, even though you have already said that the French will do the delivery of trains, and electrical machinery systems, or the complete equipment of that subway, and that the Chinese companies that I was talking about at the beginning will perform the works. We also have before us a proposal for a law on additions and amendments to the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. Somehow you as a minister now when we look at all these laws, they're all directly or indirectly tied to your ministry, because wherever the building is involved, and somehow on all these laws it has to be dominant, then you're right to defend all these laws today. As far as these changes and additions are concerned, already existing laws are not small and are not just cosmetics, how sometimes we just have to do, to comply with EU laws, and we have different situations here today, and when it comes to regulations and when we talk about some plans, when we talk about the height of taxis, defining certain conditions, when it comes to investing in river onions, etc. So, a serious amendment to the law. I won't even repeat how important it is to invest in water infrastructure, develop and modernise. Of course, the different experiences of those people who live by the big rivers, by the rivers where the water traffic is being maintained and where the water traffic is alive, whether it's freight or passenger, as well as the different experiences of those who live by the highway. I come from Vranjska Banja, near us the river Morava, unfortunately it's not a water river, it's true that there were some ideas and some plans that could become watery, but there are circumstances, when these summer months come, you can literally run over Morava. Unfortunately, she won't be able to be watery. What's good, Minister, the highway won't cross us and Vrnjaka Banja finally gets on the highway. One great experience, related to river navigation and at all to this water traffic, I had last week, when I was a member of the Committee on Business, I was chairman of the Committee, Mr. Arsic organized a meeting and we had the opportunity to visit HE Đerdap, and to be honest, maybe I was there on a trip a long time ago, once again it all fascinated me, taking into account that this was done in 1964, that it was all put into operation, it was too serious a construction venture for that time, but here we were, Serbia today is powerful, but then as a whole Yugoslavia, from one very other perspective, we managed to do a serious project. If I'm going to look for a similar project now that can be compared to these guides or even a hydropower plant, I can say freely that it's a metro, as this Gerdap hydropower plant will remain for centuries and from it, that I'm not talking about how much use we have as a state, I'm sure it'll be able to mate the metro both as an investment and as something that will make it easier for citizens in many ways. The capacity before renovation, so it's very important to say, that your ministry has made certain investments in the recent period just, when these translators are concerned, the capacity from 6,300 vessels has been increased to 10,000. In itself, it shows that this 40% is a big income for our budget. Rivers are the cheapest kind of transport. Our waterways can be compared to the highways. Serbia has luck with the water rivers, and of course the most important river is the Danube and that may be our strongest highway when it comes to rivers. I had the opportunity to be a member of a business delegation organised and led by Dragan Markovic Palma to Egypt, and then I realized the importance of our rivers. We used to be great meat exporters for Egypt in the old Yugoslavia, so for their army. I note that Egypt is a country that has over 100 million inhabitants and, of course, today, large quantities of cereals are exported to Egypt. Minister Nedimovic last time he came here was just talking about these agreements and the importance of these natural-political delegations. The result of such economic and political delegations has been signed again by the agreement and permission that we can now as Serbia, since the old Yugoslavia signed the agreement, now Serbia has signed the agreement and that we can again co-operate not only with Egypt, but with the whole world and make maximum use of the potential of our rivers. That's why everything this law treats and everything that this law covers makes it easier to transport on the one hand, which helps our economy and, above all, our agriculture, and on the other hand, creates opportunities for new revenues and inflows into our budget. What might be interesting for citizens, which is that the revenues from inland navigation are somewhere around 40m euros and are constantly growing, and if we need to measure in tons what it is that transports our rivers, it is an impressive figure of eight million tonnes. Why am I saying that maybe this is the most important thing for agriculture? First of all, because only last economic year when it comes to corn, and I said that there was a dominant China and Egypt, first of all, from October 2019 to September 30, 2020, we exported a record of 3,050,000 tonnes of corn. So that's a really fascinating number. So we out of these eight million tons is certainly more than 50% if we take this corn and everything else is dedicated to agriculture. This law today is certainly important to your Ministry and is important to all people who go transitably, but such a rational man when he looks, I'm sure that the Danube River and the waterway all our rivers are the most important to agriculture. If those rivers didn't have transport costs, everyone and other costs related to the transport and delivery of goods would probably make us such that we are no longer competitive on the world market. I am sure that this process will take place especially when your ministry is concerned with river infrastructure and that Serbia will continue to take great steps towards the future. What's wrong with me, here, I repeat it the last time, every time because of a statement or a defense against false attacks and false affairs, we somehow spend that time and we don't get to deal with these other laws. Just because I don't explain them doesn't mean we won't vote for them. I repeat, the JS parliamentary group will support all laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6690	Thank you. First one press release for the National Assembly. You have received the resignations of MPs Ljuba Petrovic and Prof. Dr. Predrag Markovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation of the resignations was the case set out in Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determine the termination of its mandate to these MPs. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, notes that before the end of the term of office, the MPs Ljuba Petrovic and Prof. Dr. Predrag Markovic had been elected on the day of their resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. The word has Minister Tomislav Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6691	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Somehow, you took this administrative issue away from me from Mr. Vujic's exposure. I just wanted to get over myself. First, thank you for this presentation, for the 90% of today's grain we export to Egypt is done across our ports. You said eight million tons. Yes, but only the grain. Fourteen million tonnes of goods are exported through our ports thanks to large investments in previous years we export more goods via ships than by rail. It's just a sign that we have to invest additionally in rail infrastructure, especially in our cargo traffic, in order to support all the industry that developed over the years. If you were looking at the president yesterday in the exhibit, I did, and one information was amazing to me, which is that we have a surplus in exports with the Czech Republic. These are truly amazing results that we have managed to achieve in the past and to be proud of. You mentioned the domestic construction industry, the operation, and you compared how it used to be and how powerful it was, how we, through our political strength and positions, could export operations to non-classified countries, to build strategic buildings. I would tell you that in addition to having large investment by foreign partners, with whom we are investing together in these infrastructure strategic products, we are through the previous period, and this is going through the day, we have developed our construction operation, it has raised it to a higher level, and that is what goes undetected that our companies are massing jobs, primarily in Western Europe at good prices, very profitable jobs and we are increasingly, not having construction workers going there and the question is whether they will ever return, no, we have companies that go there, construction workers who follow these companies, who in one time period of three to six months can make extra money and return there to do regular jobs. We really did a lot of work on it, not as a government, not taking direct credit for it, but simply a whole range of investment in the construction industry and the fact that we with our own operation couldn't carry out all these infrastructure projects. Our plan is by the end of the year to start building 850km of highways, only highways in the Republic of Serbia. That's the data that's amazing. Our real problem is who does all of this to us. How are we supposed to do all this? How can we build an infrastructure that, of course, has not been built in the past 50 years, due to objective circumstances, basic basic infrastructures such as roads have not been built? Not to open here the quick track issue of Belgrade-Sabotica, which we are building today or Belgrade-Nish-Presevo, which we are planning to start soon to build. So, extensive works where the subway, of course, is the most important infrastructure project and the largest infrastructure project in Belgrade's history, are being followed by the whole country. The country not only builds a new infrastructure, but also re-industrates, water economy, ports, railways are key to supporting the kargo. Thanks for the exposure, one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6692	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been authorised by a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6693	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Orlic. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, I see the minister has prepared well, and that's good. You're a young man, but I don't see that fear tied to those miles of highways. My advice, right at the beginning – no kilometer of highway is the same, there are no same kilometers, but the preparation exists in the realisation of these projects and the main project defines this, and of course, by calculating the works, it is known that the lady sitting next to you knows well, so let him explain it to you. I've often been in conflict with fellow ministers when they run with numbers in advance. We can talk about some global numbers. The second advice at first, I won't strangle you much, those who deal with development are experts who have a great deal of pain. Two kinds of resistances are in both our country and the world for people who are developing, and what you're doing is development projects. The first resistance comes from citizens who don't need to know what we're planning and what we're doing, but it's easier to master them. That's my 55-year-old experience. Other resistances come from structures that do not respond, especially in the Balkans and in our country. There are people who would do something else. We're getting into the subway right now. That was the reason the subway hadn't been finished in the last 50 years. By the way, the start of metro realization was good. Branko Pesic, the mayor of Belgrade of the 1970s, defined Belgrade as a city of development and as a city of services, and that meant that the entire industry was going out of town, and that the city must be connected to fast traffic with Europe and the whole world. This meant entering the Gazel highway, it meant building a Belgrade node, it meant modernising the airport, it meant cleaning up the Danube and it meant urban traffic meant subway. It was immediately formed that the directorates who prepared and did so and did as much as they could. Unfortunately, behind that, I know all the 10, 15 structures and the mayor and people wanted to build, there was no or political will, read – Vukic, I say it openly, or money. There was often one, there wasn't another. You today have awesome support for the state, unremembered, and that's why you have such results. And don't be too boastful that we haven't worked much before you, we've worked as hard as we can. That's what I'm saying not for myself, but for these other generations who are listening to this right now. You must commend them. All five laws in the area of construction are good laws. The subway law is good, because it finally defines the start of building that big project. The city never thought of it like that before. Today, the state thinks so. The big project means it needs a lot of money, and Belgrade can't do it alone. The Republic of Serbia can do that. The country's stability beyond borders and stability in the country guarantees that the conditions are political good, that is the precondition for political will and of course the wishes of both the president and the government and the state to realise these projects. So I'm not going to talk about the subway details. My colleague, Kesar, spoke well on behalf of the Committee, which are technical details, and you surprised me that you had completely mastered that technology. So the preparation is good, the orientation towards French technologies is good, the direction towards building is good for those who give money. Of course, I'm always behind our businesses and I remind you that our businesses are capable, regardless of the difficulties they have, of doing all these major projects, especially our projectors that you have to deal with a little bit more. Our design organizations are good, what my colleague Voyage used to say before me, in the world they had a great affirmation, therefore, they have today. So, subway, good job. Metro with this law is moving and that's good. I don't want to talk about the subway anymore. As far as these other laws are concerned, it is very important for the Law on Planning and Construction and I support an absolute decision to extend the deadline. Of course, investors weren't able, it was such a time, to provide conditions that they could build and it's good that the deadline extends both the honor and the law. As far as water is concerned, that's where the water chief, as far as I know, Veljko, Corridor 7 is the same as Corridor 10 in rail and road traffic, an extremely important traffic station. Europe is ready, when we talk about it, that's why I'm talking more about these other elements, to give money to realize projects on Corridor 7. Corridor 7 must have more attention and it is good that you are now creating conditions through this law to move the standards needed to meet foreign investors, so that they can enter with this concession, and that's good. Support and this project. Apartments. The same project was in 1999 and 2000. I want Damjanovic to know that. He was then baptized by the state as a project for young couples, the military and the police, therefore, the same. It's totally good to define what you said, 500 euros in construction, it's totally good to define the conditions and, of course, this construction technology. But I suggest that this project doesn't stop, continue it in that spirit, as the Voja also spoke before me, that the apartments are built for those people, and we said then young couples, it doesn't matter, for those people who, of course, are young first of all, because young people only ask for two conditions – jobs and apartments in a relatively short time. This is how the state can secure it. And in that sense support of this law absolutely. As for the work on implementing the rail system projects, I have to go back, here, six minutes, I'm not going ten minutes. I'm taking the chance, but now I don't know who's in the rail business, whether it's between you two, it's not, I'm sorry. You announced the construction of a highway line from Belgrade to Nis, so proceed. I remind you, the first task here is very clear. The track is built for 200 kilometers per hour projected speed and commercially 130 kilometers. Since I see that there are already some deviations, I've seen, some new ideas, 120, 160 etc., I apologize for the technical data, I won't go any further, I'm saying this for you, because you're experts, so 200 kilometers, wherever possible, and it has to be possible at a greater length than what I've heard in public, not to mention it now, to be electrified and to be for mixed traffic. Now, that's a high-speed rail. Over 200 already go other technologies, etc. And a good orientation, that Europe appears here as a candidate, we don't get into the evaluation, that's what the state does, who's going to do what, that Europe appears as a candidate. Yet European companies are still at the top of these technologies of the Shining Systems and that is what is very important. Let him enter the competition, so you see what it will look like next. So once again, courage, you do well, and in that part you have the full support of the state. At the end of the line, I've watched, I repeat, how the president of the state talks to investors on behalf of you. Well, that's a big deal. That means you have maximum support. Use what you have today and the conditions you have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6694	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6695	There is no dilemma that the railway from Belgrade to Nis will be a 200km-an-hour track. The president announced it after a meeting several weeks ago with the presidents of the European Union, which was in fact the finals of a large number of meetings on the project. It is a grant, i.e. a gift that the European Union plans to give us to build that 700m-euro high-speed railway. It is the largest grant, the biggest gift for an infrastructure project on Western Balkan territory in the past 20 years. It's our political situation right now. The European Union, of which we are certainly not the best student, gives us the largest gift of 700m euros. If someone had said that to someone two months ago, they couldn't believe it. Of course we're gonna build the best, fastest, most modern railroad anywhere that's rational. You, if you have, and above all, I mean the parts of the railroad that are gravitating towards Belgrade, very close to the station, you can't develop 200km per hour. The 200km-an-hour tracks are 30 to 40 percent more expensive than those tracks where they can develop up to 100 miles an hour. When we talk about projects like this, we talk about hundreds of millions of euros. I am, of course, not a technical person, I don't want to explain, I don't have that knowledge as engineer Mrkonjic, but I can only say these facts why certain shares will be designed to build a railway within 160 kilometers an hour. It is exclusively on those shares where there is a logic economical, or where there are no conditions for those speeds to develop within 200 kilometers of an hour. Those are the facts. As you said, you said really well, Mr. Vujic talked about it, and I didn't give a good look around, about the jobs and the apartments. And that's what we took care of when we talked about apartments for members of the security services. In the previous period, we built a number of apartments that had a very small area. This turned out not to be attractive enough for our members of the military, police and other security services, because it's mostly family people and we've located that the smallest apartment for which there is an apartment of 46 square meters. The largest apartment that will be in this kind of traffic will have a size of 92 meters square. That's what the state can project. So, we don't give away luxury, we give away basic needs for members of our army and the police. Thank you, of course, for all the things you said about the subway and other things. We stand at the point that investment in infrastructure is crucial to the country's economy, to connecting our country with the region, and we will continue in that direction. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6696	I thank the Minister. The word is Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6697	I've got to do a little confrontation with the minister, though. There are no gifts anywhere in the world today of this species. What all MPs here know, even you, interests are only important. So, Europe, and it's not just on this case, it's seen in other examples where the presence of Chinese, Russians, etc., Europe realizes that these countries are working with us today, and Europe's interest is in technology. The express track, as President Vukic said, defines a new technological thought. It changes the world and changes our world here. Therefore, Europe will not let the cars of TTV or Simmons go so easily, so that Chinese cars run on our tracks, I tell you openly, and that's good for us. This is the result of our country's good foreign policy. Therefore, there are no, children, gifts anywhere, only interests and take care of it, it's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6698	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6699	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. I couldn't agree more. There's no free lunch. Those are facts, but the fact is that we're also getting that money at this point for free to invest in our railroad. Are we going to lead our political abilities to see that 700,000 euros in reality become much more, or are we going to turn those 700 euros into something that will work, especially for some other countries, we will see, but I am confident that our policy, led by the President of the Republic, has the power to make these 700 euros just the basis for further development of infrastructure and that we will only develop real results once we build that fast track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6700	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the PUPS parliamentary group, MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6701	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us a debate on a set of laws that regulate certain areas that regulate a particular issue more closely than the previous texts or the previous laws. From a set of laws that are united in today's debate, I believe that two laws are of greater importance to the wider layers of our citizens. First of all, I am referring to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of the project "Building apartments for members of the Security Forces". These amendments and additions should remove certain irregularities of the current text of this existing law. As we all know, when this law was passed a few years ago, its main intention was to solve the expressed housing problem of our soldiers and police officers, as well as veterans of earlier wars with unresolved housing issues, or housing issues. Practical application has shown that it is necessary to make certain corrections to the legal text, in order for it to truly fulfil this fundamental purpose, not to turn itself into something completely different and dishonest, basically a feeling of honor that has the highest number of security forces. Therefore, I think it is good that amendments to the law first clarify that the right to compete for these apartments will not have those who, after 1 June 2018, when the basic text of this law came into force, already had in their possession a certain appropriate apartment, and then sold it or otherwise alienated it. It is also specified that this right will not be given to those who, in their possession, already have the appropriate part of the family residential building or part of the apartment, i.e. the basic property, because it is logical that such cases should not be covered by the benefits offered in this law and to obtain additional property. The second improvement was made in Article 5, where more detailed clarifications are made compared to the existing provisions on who has the right to apply for apartments in Belgrade and Novi Sad. These improvements should also be supported, as it is known that the apartments of this programme are built and sold at a price lower in these cities than the market, which is why such rules must be laid down which will allow those dwellings to actually come to those places and which are therefore truly vital to life. As the third positive changes in this proposal, I see that there is an increase in the minimum square of the residential area of the dwellings to be built and that is the square of at least 46 square meters, i.e. in the structure of one-and-a-kind apartments. This residential area already prejudges that those who plan or already have families and children will compete for such apartments, and it is precisely the housing of such personnel that must be in the first place instead of building a garage for singles, i.e. less dysfunctional apartments for the family. Finally, it is good that these changes are planned that investors can also have companies established by the Republic of Serbia during construction and that they will also be able to benefit from the construction of additional sites and garages within these complexes that are likely to be in market prices. Changes in these laws should be supported, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that even though members of the military and the police are at risk of living because of the nature of their work, that they should also think slowly and plan to expand these programmes to other public sector employees and to all younger couples with children. I would like to remind you that in our time that, two decades ago, as part of the country's reconstruction project, we had an ambitiously imagined programme of housing for young couples, who referred not only to large cities and the majority of municipal seats. The very fact that construction in small municipalities would reduce pressure on larger centres, thus reducing the emptying of small municipalities. If such a programme at that time could not be realised in the right way and in time for various reasons, especially the difficult economic situation and instability, it does not mean that such good ideas could not now be realised when we are better economically and when the situation is much more stable. What is more important, I would like to point out, which is that Minister of Agriculture Milan Krkobic has repeatedly pointed out in his performances that we need apartments for experts and young couples in the country, if we want it to come back to life. And by the way, reviving Serbia's village is one of the basic priorities it should be in the coming period. I think that the country should also go into planning a serious programme to rebuild the housing fund by village, because it can be noticed that although there are many empty houses in the villages that could be bought out for this kind of needs, it is often about 50-year-olds and more, which can hardly meet modern housing standards or need basic rehabilitation, and this is particularly expressed in those environments, primarily in southern and southeast Serbia, in mountainous and border areas where the situation is most critical. According to some data, there are about 150,000 empty houses in Serbia in the rural area that could be renovated, but the construction of new ones for the needs of small ones would not be a failure. The fact that when we talk about security forces, building a number of apartments in this border area and hiring or assigning some young couples, we also automatically raise the level of security in these areas. This is a very important question and should be paid full attention to it. The establishment of the ministry of village care is just one step in creating better conditions to address the problems and needs facing more than 40% of the population of Serbia, living in the rural area. That is why it is necessary for the ministry to provide the essential possibility of its operation and, above all, the planning of a larger budget for the Ministry of Agriculture for a future period. Another important task in this package is the proposal for a law on subways and city railways. I think we all understand that this is probably the most important municipal and infrastructure project, primarily for Belgrade, but also for the state of Serbia. The fact that the metro plans began to be made in the 1970s, that more rarely anyone who could know exactly how many of these plans were and what their details were, spoke enough about negligence, missed chances and lost time, which has been measured not for years, but for decades that have passed, while the capital grew and developed with a huge limitation and poor public transport of their citizens. The government of this coalition is the first to finally decide after the last half century to deal seriously with these problems and which has shown that this will to resolve this issue will not really be short-lived, but we already have the opportunity to see that projects, planning and technical documentation are already being done in this direction, looking for foreign partners with experience in this area and that certain initial jobs are already being done. I am particularly pleased that the minister has just pointed out that he is working and working with countries that have a great deal of experience in this particular business. All of this instills confidence that this large project will begin to be built within the planned deadline within the next seven years. This bill should enable all administrative obstacles to be removed in this business to take place as quickly and efficiently as possible. In addition to these two laws, in my opinion, the focus in this united debate is the proposal for a law on an electronic document which provides for the possibility of creating electronic signatures and stamps at a distance and issuing a qualified electronic certificate through remote identification, which so far has not been possible, since mandatory physical presence has been envisaged, to which certification is issued. These changes are significant in terms of easier and safer conduct of legal affairs and trade. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on port navigation on inland waters brings important news. The possibility that individual port terminals can be built, exploited, renewed and on the principles of a public-private partnership, which will be important for reviving and better exploiting river transport as an economic branch. When we talk about a public-private partnership, it is necessary to regulate this relationship with strict rules of operation in order not to be cases of abuse, as it used to be in an earlier period of privatisation. Since we consider it to be good legal proposals, the PUPS parliamentary group - "Tri P" will give its support in the voting day for their adoption. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group - "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session and vote "yes". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6702	I would like to thank the authorised representative of Parliament's PUPS – "Tri P". For our children, Parliament MP Katarina Rakic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6703	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda of today's session is a set of laws from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, as well as a law proposed by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. Now I really can't talk about anything that has to do with construction and infrastructure, and before that, I can't tell you what's been done in the infrastructure area so far. You know what our people say. A man gets used to it very quickly and easily, so forget how it has been so far. I would ask all my colleagues to repeat regularly what is done, especially in the area of infrastructure, because we really have something to boast about, we have something to be proud of, and as I say, our people quickly forget. As for infrastructure and the most significant roads that have been completed and released into operation, it means handing over to the citizens of Serbia for use since 2012 and the following roads are on this route: the highway "Milos Veliki" total length 120.5 kilometers; then Corridor 10 – eastern share, Nis-Dimitrovgrad, total length 87 kilometers, along with this route was released and the non-commercial road Bela Palanka-Pirot length of 17.8 kilometers; then Corridor 10 "South", part Nis-Macedonian border, total length 74.2 kilometers; then Corridor 10 "XY Krak" length 21.3 kilometers; then the Batocina-Kragujevac highway 15 kilometers long; then the tour around Belgrade Sector A and Sector B4 of total length, with very important loops Dobanovci and Batajnica, as well as the bridge of Ostruznica. Along these roads, it's rehabilitated, and over 410km of roads have improved traffic safety. When we add all of this up, that's what I'm saying. When we add up miles of what I've just read, we get to a figure of 315 kilometers. Now that I say that number, 315 kilometers, it sounds very significant to me personally when it comes to a local and a master's trip, but no. I'm talking about 315 kilometers of highways in my full profile and with all the accompanying infrastructure. All this has been released, completed and handed over to the citizens of Serbia for use. Now I'm going to read you what shares are currently being done, what stocks are currently being built and what shares are currently in the design, and when we add the total length of those shares, which are being prepared, which are currently being done, their total length is as much as 1,090 kilometers. These are the following shares: the Moravia Corridor, the Pojate-Preljina section, a total length of 110 kilometers. I just read what roads were done in Serbia. When you look at what I've read, you can practically see that Serbia has roads both through eastern and western Serbia today and what's really missing is this rope that will link the roads inside Serbia and the Moravia Corridor. That's exactly what he's about to present. He needs to make a connection between Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. His end was planned for 2023. What's interesting is that right now, as far as building this roadway is concerned, it works at 24 locations at the same time. I don't think anything like this has ever happened before, and another interesting thing is that on 12 May of this year, all 24 locations have had a total of 1.002 workers and 400 units of machinery. Can you imagine what that looks like? I can imagine it as an army of workers working on only one share. Personally, Minister, I really want to congratulate you on that, because you are the one who is responsible for all these roads for us and for the citizens of Serbia and I just want to invite you to keep doing this, because this is really something that will give a good result in the future. The next part on which work is currently being done is the highway "Milos Veliki", on the section of Preljina-Požega. We've all had our chance, at least some of us, to see how important this time is. 15 days ago, we had catastrophic crowds, catastrophic columns, and I was the one that happened in that column, even 6.5 kilometers was a long column. That's when I remembered, when I was at the opening of that trip in 2016, the opposition people said that it had absolutely missed its location, or designing in a place where there shouldn't be a road, that this road would not have cars in the future, would not be used at all. First of all, it's not us who designed that road. That road was projected long before we took power. We finished that trip, although some of the shares were already done, outdated, so they had to be restored, and whether we needed some of them or not, I really wouldn't comment. We need it every time, and the need for this road has shown itself 15 days ago. I hope that by ending this time, further to Požega, he will really get his full capacity, that the crowds will no longer be, and from the Ministry we have received a promise that the end of this trip to Požega was planned by the end of January of next year, although they said that this share is not so long, in the construction work represents a very serious and demanding share. The next time that is under construction is the Fruskogorski Corridor, on May 1st of this year by digging a two-way tunnel Irish wreath that will be 3.5 and 3.6km long, began building the Fruskogorski Corridor. Otherwise, this two-way tunnel when it is finished will be the longest tunnel in Serbia and it really needs to present an extremely important ecological project because all traffic from the Irish wreath should turn through the tunnel and in the future no motor traffic will be allowed to cross the Irish vengeful because it will really contribute to a better, or contribute to the protection of the environment in this area. Otherwise, the end of the work on the Fruskogorski Corridor was planned for three years. I just want to mention that this is the share that's planned to have four strips, a width of 3.5 meters, which means that this is going to be the share where the average speed is going to be between 60 and 100 kilometers. In addition to these corridors, it is also currently working on the construction of a fast traffic station Ruma - Shabac - Loznica in the length of 77km, then the Kuzmin - Sremska Raca highway with a bridge over the Sava length of 18km, then the fast traffic station Iverak - Lajkovac, and works on a bypass around Belgrade have been completed. Otherwise, as most of us know, the construction of this stock lasted almost thirty years and it was complicated to work and two demanding tunnels were breached, although the stock was not very long at eight kilometers, we finally managed to finish it and let it work. Well, here, now that I've read everything that's currently been done and everything that's done, we all need a clear line when Aleksandar Vukic, president of Serbia, says, "We've raised the country from the ashes, I'm giving my head, I'm not giving Serbia! "I believe many of us remember what Serbia looked like in 2012. If anyone might not remember, here's a reminder. In 2012, Serbia looked like a decrepit wind-metting house, completely devastated. Even as such, she was in charge of many basics, and she was in charge even for 38 years. Now, it's easy to be a good host when you take a full house, it's easy to be a host when you have everything, and it's hard to be in a house like we did in 2012. Indeed, once again, I want to say that it is easy to get used to, but don't forget how it was before 2012. One of my colleagues who spoke before me, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, said, "Well, we worked, not that we didn't work." And I want to remind you now, yes, they did, not that they didn't. It's not that they didn't work, but how did they work? They worked from field to field. We had stock that ran from nowhere to nowhere, so we had a situation where the projectors were complaining it wasn't their fault, it was the contractors who did the work, and the contractors were saying, they weren't the projectors, they were the wrong projectors. And between the blames of one and the other, the citizens of Serbia paid the most because of their money, or their money, they paid precisely those shares that no one used on which no toll was charged. However, behind such a stock that they ran from nowhere to nowhere, from field to field, the state of Serbia had to pay for maintenance. So, one complete, complete nonsense, so you have a path that is not used, that serves nothing, and the money of Serbian citizens pays to maintain such roads. But it's not all that bad. I've got to say, in the past, we've had one, in a building sense, a world miracle. Now that I say in a building sense, maybe it's not even in construction anymore. I am pleased that Mr. Momirovic mentioned the Minister at the beginning of the Gilas Bridge, the bridge over Ada, I would like to remind you that we do not forget it, and I would like to talk more often about this world wonder that exists in Belgrade. You know, it's a bridge that doesn't even have a mile, it's 964 meters. The bridge cost citizens of Serbia, citizens of Belgrade as half of the Moravia Corridor. Moravia corridor has 110, more specifically it's planned to be 110 kilometers. So 55km will cost something that even cost a kilometer in Belgrade. Now, maybe someone will say, "Yes, but it's a bridge, maybe it's a different design, maybe the path is easier to build," I would now make another comparison. There's one bridge, it's not really a bridge anymore, it's more like a viaduct, actually it's called, the viaduct "Milau," I think it's read, and it's in France, and that viaduct is 2.5 kilometers long. So instead of this Gilas guy who doesn't have a mile. So almost one and a half times is bigger. And that viaduct has six sawmills, unlike this Gilas one, to say the golden one, or I don't know how to call it, and this Viaduct is almost 23 meters higher than the Eiffel Tower, and it really represents one of the tallest buildings in France, and it really represents one of the world's wonders. But, look at the wonders, and that kind of viaduct that's almost double and half way longer and has six sawmills unlike Gilas's one and it's so high it cost as much as 50m euros less. Well, I still think that the builder of this bridge, then with the right, probably, paid himself a multimillion dollar prize in Euros on Mauritius, because this one world wonder really needed to finance the money of citizens and Belgrade and Serbia, because for just that difference of 50 million, and I believe that for this one of his bridges, that we understand the citizens of Belgrade need bridges, that it was lucky that he made instead of that one five cheaper bridges, because this one of his that was set without access tickets, we'll all agree, absolutely no point. But we don't have to ask much from where the millions paid as a reward on their account in Mauritius are here, so at least this difference from that bridge, from that viaduct in France, we can find at least that 50 million euros, I believe the difference is drastically larger. I am sorry that citizens of Serbia, citizens of Belgrade, at least for that difference from 50 million could receive at least 50 kindergartens, 50 schools, hospitals, but well. I have now cited only an example of how we did, how they did, so Serbian citizens can see the clear difference. As far as the law goes on on today’s agenda, there is a law, i.e. amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction. I have repeatedly said that I have always been about bad laws changing, that when we notice in the application of some law that there are illogicalities or that its application does not bring good things to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to apply, to approach amendments and amendments to the law, rather than that bad laws are in force only with the excuse that it is bad to constantly make changes and supplement the laws that have been passed. The Law on Planning and Construction was first passed in 2003 and I personally and responsibly can say that this is the worst law ever written. And now I'm going to explain to you why. The former regime wrote this law in a way that you had in the same plan document a situation that in one part you allowed citizens who illegally built buildings, and objects and legalized. So, in his first part, the law prescribed how citizens can legalise their illegally built buildings, and further in the same law of 2003, further in the provisions said that construction without a building permit is a criminal offence that is sanctioned even by a prison sentence. Now, I can interpret it in two ways. Or someone who wrote that absolutely didn't take care of it, which is really scary. It means that the citizens practically had to run to legalize their facility until the inspection arrives, and then they go to jail, which I think is so terrible. Or this law was actually written then for certain investors to arrive to edit some of their facilities that they were illegally working and building, but I don't want to think that way either. However, in 2009, the Constitutional Court brought this law down, and on several occasions we tried to bring order into this mess. However, from this position, I can certainly say now that this law did not miss its reason of adoption, but that unfortunately it introduced a complete interference among citizens, that Serbian citizens no longer knew what legalisation is, what new construction is, what they need a building permit for, what they need a valid permit for. So, really, I'm saying, we've tried multiple times, and by passing the Law on Legalization and by passing the Law of Law to bring this part into order. However, I think the 2003 Law on Planning and Construction is precisely the one responsible for the construction chaos we have today. What we did somewhere, and I'm really happy about it, it's, this 2003 law was brought down by the Constitutional Court, that we're a whole new Law on Planning and Construction in 2014 and this law has really given good effects and we've foreseen this law to unify the procedure, so we've reduced Serbian citizens one walk through various counters. We can really see that Serbia has made great progress. First of all, the indicator is very clear, Serbia today ranks ninth in the World Bank's "Doing Business List". Otherwise, in 2015, we were 88. So, by applying this law in this part, we can see a clear effect. Also, what's a good effect and very fast is the issue of building permits. We had a situation that in 2012, a total of 7,400 building permits were issued, and for example in 2019 we had 21.844 and even in 2020 22.625 building permits, which means a very clear indicator of how much the 2014 law had worked. Also, here we have one clear indication that even the pandemic of the coronary virus has not stopped either the issue of building permits or the construction sector. What is also interesting is the fact that 75,563 sites were active in Serbia on 16 April this year. You can imagine what that means. I don't have to name economic indicators right now. You can imagine when in 75,000 places you have at least 10 workers. Someone's bringing construction material to those 75,000 construction sites, someone's going to equip these apartments later, these buildings, people are going to work. The economic data is very clear. Today, there is a law on the agenda, a law on subways and railways, which will build another huge construction site from Belgrade at the end of the year. Unfortunately, I have no more time and I would like to quote again President Vukic's words – we have raised the country from the ashes. I want to tell all my colleagues who are here today with us and who have participated in the previous years in passing various laws that we should be proud of this, that we should be proud, first of all, because we have someone to follow, we have someone to lead us, and we have to be proud of leaving our children and grandchildren with a modern and orderly state for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6704	I thank the authorised representative. The word has Minister Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6705	First of all, I would like to thank you, dear Katarina, for the great help and support in making these laws, and generally in our work, indeed, we as members of the SNS are all part of one team and so it is possible for all these projects to be implemented, all of these wonders of the projects that you have mentioned. I'd just add - we have over 1,000 workers on the Moravia Corridor every day. We each day have over 800 workers on the part of the highway “Milos Great” from Preljina to Požega. You're attached to what I said. I feel the need to do it again. When they talk about the prices of the highway, one bridge on Ada costs more than the entire French corridor with the longest tunnel in the Republic of Serbia, with the largest bridge in Novi Sad. The bridge on Ada is more expensive than the project from Preljina to Požega, with two tunnels about three kilometers each. Each tunnel has two pipes of 2,800 meters and 2,900 meters. These are the other two largest tunnels in Serbia. Forty percent of the shares from Preljina to Požega are tunnels and bridges and the Adi bridge is more expensive than that project. Of course you can only wonder how, what's this all about? It's one of the realities that we've found ourselves in and these are questions or criticisms that we need to give an answer to. How do we give that answer? Keep in mind that there is another topic related to all these projects that you mentioned, on which it is also impossible to give an answer, as it is impossible to explain how the Adi Bridge is more expensive than all these projects. I just can't do it. Maybe I don't have enough political experience to explain it now, to point it out, to turn it into a direct political attack, but I really don't know how to respond to that attack, to that criticism. Some citizens have that in mind, let them think about it. These projects we are talking about, the Moravski Corridor, 110km long, which will connect Kruševac, Varvarin, before that Cicevic, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja, Kraljevo, Čačak, and soon we start working from Aran to Mrčaevci, this is the part between the Kings and the Shipmen. We're opening another piece of work, 50% of that corridor is cheaper than the Ada bridge. That's the facts. These are the facts that some more skilled politician needs to point out, as some more skilled politician is likely to point out what a success it is that we are going to start doing "Belgrade Metro" at the end of this year after 50 or 60 years of everyday or let's say, every year repeating that it will start working. Nothing's been done. Of course, I appreciate all the arguments why it wasn't done. I totally respect it. I understand them all. I could put out a million arguments on my own why it's hard. We're entering this project. We will finish this project in the first line in 2028 and the second line in 2030. Belgrade will be a whole new city when we're done. There's another topic, and I'm going back to what I said, which they keep saying is a criticism of which there's not enough quality answer. Our public debt to GDP is below 60%. With all these investments, the public debt before the SNS took over in 2012 was almost 80%. They have made these big investments almost to the debt crisis. What investments? Today we're talking about hundreds of miles of road built, hundreds of miles of road completed, hundreds of kilometers of the most modern and fastest railroads in Eastern Europe. We're not talking about potential bankruptcy. We're talking about whether the share of public debt will be more than 60% or below 60%. We consider it a huge failure if the public debt is 61%. Our goal is to keep it below 60%. It was 80%. None of these corridors, not that they weren't in the performance and design, but it wasn't the subject. Who ever mentioned the Moravia Corridor, the Fruskogorian Corridor. Did anyone hear from you 10 years ago that it's even in some kind of plan, that it exists? These are new projects launched by the President of the Republic. These are the projects that are being done. These are projects that will be completed in 2022 and 2023. No project has been delayed. All projects go ahead of schedule. I would remind you, dear Katarina, to correct it, or to add, however, if we hadn't just finished the highway to Cačka, we'd have started the highway to Chačka and finished it, and all of these projects will be completed in the coming years, and Serbia is going to move on irrevocably, and nothing will be the same as it was. Never again will our country return to the situation as before 2012. We are all standing together on the road that will bring this country and the salaries that will be over 900 euros, and in a completely new infrastructure and will continue this trend, not only pours out the population, but the new population into Serbia. That's why we're building these apartments, that's why we're opening up all this perspective. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6706	I apologize, Mrs. Rakic. I'll give you my word. I thank the Minister. But before that, Milutin Mrkonjic called to replicate your exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6707	She doesn't know what she meant by her colleague Rakic, when she said that I made a statement that it wasn't built right and so on, etc.... I don't want to comment on that much, because it's not fair, she's the president of the board where I'm vice president, but at least it's fair for her to tell me. It is not true, in 2008 until 2013 when I was minister, both Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. If she thought at the time, I am proud to point out that share, which she is talking about, began as the beginning of Belgrade-Cacchak-Bar's long highway. It's a matter of strategy where it's gonna start. I kept my mouth shut for a few years, I didn't want to comment, not the former or the minister, but now I have to comment on her, because she insults me. It was done strategically, in my term, there were no such events, and since I remember 55 years and I work, let it remind me, maybe there's something I've done wrong before, and I was wrong. Therefore, colleague Rakic, it is not fair for you to speak here behind me and not tell me that, you have had many times on the board to draw my attention to that. So, the Belgrade-Bar highway, even today, wouldn't have started if we hadn't started that stock in 2009 or 2010, I'm talking about the Ministry of Infrastructure and Traffic then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6708	Katarina Rakic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6709	I didn't answer the line, I called to speak after the minister, but Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic gave me the space, so let me answer him first. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, dear colleague, I didn't think of you, I don't know why you're answering, I said yes, you said yes, we worked, not that we didn't work. I said yes, they worked before, not that they didn't work, but here's how they worked. You weren't in the O.R. to hear what I said, so I guess that's where the problem came from, who gave it to you, but you can listen to what I said. I don't have a problem with either of you or anyone to say to my face what I really think. But there can be no problem between you or us, what you or anyone else have been doing, these are things that Serbian citizens can see. So, the roads in Serbia are not something each of us will hide and take away. As Serbia's roads have been built and built, Serbian citizens see it today, and we remember that too, you remember that too. No one has accused you of doing any good. I was just quoting your words, when you said, it was working, not that it wasn't working. If there's something wrong with that sentence, here, I'm really sorry, but I really think someone who ran to tell you might have had some bad intentions, well, you see with that colleague of yours. I really didn't mean it any different. Now, basically, I'd like to say what I've come to say. Minister, you really are one decent man, and a lot of those, and you're not answering, perhaps, how the MPs here should pronounce and condemn what happened to the bridge on Ada. You don't need to give us these questions, you and I need to get answers how it is, because we don't understand it either, how it's clear to us only when we add and see how much, or now that we have a chance to build and work, and when we see how much it costs, we now ask ourselves, and how it's possible that one bridge on Ada, which doesn't even have a kilometer, costs more than half of the Moravia Corridor. Otherwise, to point out that only in the design of the Moravia Corridor is planned the entire accompanying infrastructure plus the regulation of West Morava. So we have all this, not to mention that this time it will contribute to the development of central Serbia and will benefit nearly half a million citizens of Serbia. What do we have in Belgrade? In Belgrade, we have that our children, your children, our grandchildren, are damaged for kindergartens, for schools, for hospitals, which could have been built from that money. We don't have to forget that. We don't need to keep quiet about it. We don't need to talk quietly, we need to talk every day about where the money of the citizens of Belgrade, the citizens of Serbia, invested in Gilas's Adi Bridge monument, from which he, or from the difference in which he, as a likely winner, has charged himself significant funds on his own account on Mauritius. All of this doesn't bother me until I remember that Belgrade could get 50 kindergartens, 50 schools, 50 hospitals and a lot of it in just 50 million. Well, here's what I'm asking you to do. The more we discuss this, the more we don't forget something like this and ask the ministers to maybe build a working group, not to forget, to let it go so it's not a small thing. Just to show how we do today, and how it was done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6710	Thank you. Time beyond the time foreseen for the replica taken from the time of the parliamentary group. We're moving on. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since we no longer have the authorised presidents of the parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The first word has a National MP named Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6711	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected co-workers from the ministry, the Justice and Reconciliation Party and our parliamentary group will support as the strongest Bosniak party, proposed laws. I think it is also very important that what is particularly interesting when we talk about infrastructure, which is a thank-you and special honor for us MPs, and especially for ministers and ministry representatives, is that very rarely in politics you have the opportunity to see what you are doing. When you implement a reform of education, citizens might feel it, maybe they don't feel it, the profession knows what it's about and it's a process that lasts. But when you talk about the subway, about the tracks, about the fast tracks, about the highways, about the local roads, that's something you can see. I just want at the beginning of this discussion to remind myself and you of how much responsibility it is to us. Perhaps in this area you can best see this saying that the sword has two blades. So if we really want to stay remembered, and I was saying in some previous exhibitions that the city I come from, which is Prepolje, everyone remembers fellow Mrkonjic, because he was leading the reconstruction of the country reconstructed one bridge. I really want the ministers to remember you as ministers and us as MPs in this term, all of us to remember us in Prijepolje, Pazar, Sandzak, and throughout the country by building the railway to Novi Pazar, by finishing this highway that will cross the Cave and go to Bolar and to Bar and contributing to the economic development of that part of our country and which will stop the emigration. What we must not allow is that some of the next mandates speak about us and say: behold, and they spoke and did not finish the metro, they said to build the railway to Novi Pazar, and they did not build it. The last time you and I discussed the construction of that railway near Novi Pazar, there were various comments, we started it in the '90s, 2000s, etc. Any honor on a good idea, I can start the idea of building a cosmodrom in Serbia or in Prijepolje, but whoever does it deserves praise. Now that you're on your way to Chačka, when you're headed for New Market, when you're on your way to Prepolje, when you're on the highway, that's it. So there's not a lot of politics, there's not a lot of stories, someone liked it or didn't like it, in the term of this one, in the previous or not, I don't know which government was doing something, and that's the point. That's all a hat can get off. To talk to me today about highways, to talk about the subway, something like fiscal consolidation, such as economic stability, had to happen. No one's gonna give you a grant, no one's gonna give you any money, no one's gonna lend you any money unless you're economically stable. We today have an economically stable country and the greatest gratitude for this belongs to the president of our country, but I think that we all have our own contribution here, we voted as MPs, we discussed it. I want to refer to the International Passenger Transport Act on Buses. I've been contacted by people from New Market. The new Pazar has a well-developed network of these bus transporters because it has no railways, we have a large diaspora from Sandzak, both in Western Europe and Turkey and this is a law that will apply to them and it is very important that it is on the agenda today. As for the apartments for the security forces, I'll just say for a minute that's something to say hello. I welcome the initiatives that have appeared here today that should be considered, especially people in the medical sector. We've seen how important this segment is. What's important about this apartment building is that we don't have one centralism again when it comes to Belgrade, Novi Sad and larger cities. I want to point out that honest and honest people, both in the area police department and in Prijepolje and in Novi Pazar, are doing their job and that they should be adequately rewarded. As far as the subway is concerned, I want to point out that when we speak from the interior, the development of Belgrade, the even regional development of other municipalities, it is not in conflict, Minister. So, as someone who lives in Prepolje, I fully support the construction of the subway and I think it's something that all citizens and citizens are proud of. Because there is no citizen in the state of Serbia who is not bound in any way to Belgrade -- either his child is studying, or he is coming to Belgrade for business, or he is coming to treatment. I think that these things and very often in this discourse, whether because of the political points, the day-to-day policies, I don't know what we're talking about, it's absolutely not in conflict, Belgrade has to be the engine of our country's development, but equally to take care of it, we've talked about it several times, of even regional development. It is normal to remind once again of this reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar railway line, the reconstruction of railway stations, because it is something I simply want to point out every time and to end it in this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6712	Thank you. The time foreseen for the parliamentary group has been spent. The word has Minister Tomislav Momirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6713	Dear Samir, thank you for your discussion. I don't know enough MPs of the Republic Assembly, but no matter how you make a cut, there's always someone in the New Market taking a word for it, always the first to speak. That's interesting. I've already told Mr. Zukorlic how much investments are made for the New Market. We talked earlier about wastewater treatment facilities that will solve a serious problem of Novi Pazar, Tutina, Sjenica. That's one serious environmental problem we're going to solve. I reiterated, we offensively, together with our Russian partners from the RZD we are designing a railway section from Valjev to Vrbnica, to the Montenegrin border. We had serious talks with ministers in both Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the level of Republika Srpska and at the level of the Council of Ministers, before that with ministers from Montenegro, to join all these infrastructure projects together. We need to integrate further, and I would like to further urge here that we jointly strengthen our trust in our countries, because we have to open our economy, it's in our common interest. The president launched an initiative we called "mini Schengen", so that people in the West can understand it, that they know what free flow of people and goods means, because we are in Europe today where you can freely pass between France and Germany, that you do not know where the border line is, and between Serbia and BiH you have to wait for some procedure, often in lines that can last for two hours. I'm speaking from personal experience, I've repeatedly convinced myself of that, and that's something that ruins the economy and ruins people's habits to move freely. I would like to thank you once again and appeal to the joint forces to make an effort for the whole region to take the path towards Serbia – major infrastructure investments, strengthening the economy, re-industrialisation, only so that we can get out of this major economic crisis, to keep the people and slowly bring our people back to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6714	Thank you. Explanation, Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6715	Thank you, Minister. We're on the same assignment. You must understand us, MPs who are not from Belgrade. Simply, the question of whether or not someone will renew their mandate is not an essential question. The essential question is that each of us, when he returns to his city, can say that all citizens and citizens were represented with dignity and that each problem was presented to the authorities. So you're the Resort Minister, you're doing very well, you're active, you're in the field, and that's something that's good. I know those problems we're delegating aren't the only problems in this country, but they're the most important problems for us. I mean, it's very important to build these highways. She even now looks like some kind of avant-garde in this weather. It is the best evidence that the president of this country, that the government of this country and the parliament of this country are leading one policy of peace and integration, and that there are many who would like to show us in another light and that they may re-enter some mistrust, instability, especially between the Bosniak and Serbian people. That's something we certainly won't allow, but the construction of the highway and that leg that passes through Sandzak and what you said, Užice-Cotroman towards BiH, towards Sarajevo, is something that connects all citizens and citizens, it's a path of peace, it's a path that connects businesses, and with BiH our country has a surplus and it's something that's very important for our economy. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6716	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6717	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished guests, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, at today's session, we are considering, among other things, the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Construction. At first sight, compared with the proposed changes, it could be concluded that there are technical changes, since they are a total of four members. But it's not like that. When the proposal is carefully analysed, it is clear that this is not about technique, but about essence. The promoter stated that the reasons for the adoption of this law have arisen as a result of the perception of certain problems encountered in the application of the law, and it is necessary to remove them from these amendments. The bottom line is that investors will get a new chance to obtain approval for the use of the facility through an additional four-year period. This will achieve two goals. The first – there will be conditions for new investment in these facilities, and the second – such legally arranged facilities will be able to be subject to physical and legal traffic. Simply, the proposed change will contribute to overall development, both local self-government and our country as a whole, and this certainly creates conditions for faster EU membership. Dear Ministers, in addition to what I said, I just want to point out that the implementation of the Law on Planning and Construction has difficulties in the process of issuing building permits for building buildings. The law is clear here and there are deadlines for issuing permits acceptable and short. When the procedure through a united procedure, with prior consent and conditions, is brought to the very issue of the licence, it shall be issued quickly and efficiently. However, sometimes it happens that difficult and long comes to this last administrative action of issuing a permit. I suggest that, through your ministry, you do an analysis of the respect for the deadlines given, whether they are respected both by the administration and, in particular, I stress whether the deadlines are respected by public authorities as an important factor in the process of issuing a building permit. According to what I know, public authorities should now have a more active and up-to-date approach in issuing building permits. This analysis especially makes sense when it's known to the investor every day that waiting is as long as a year. I thank and stress once again that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will also support this proposal in the voting day, as well as other draft laws on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6718	Thank you. Minister, if I'm not mistaken, Samir's from Prepolje, too. We continue, the word has a People's MP, Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6719	The President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, today we have several important amendments to the law and law, so the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all proposed laws in the voting day. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on inland waters proposes the introduction of a register of ship's books and logbooks, a register of authorised crew members of ships of inland navigation and data exchange with relevant European registers. This is all necessary for the safe navigation and prevention of falsification of crew members on the Danube, Sava, Tisa rivers, which are also European waterways. The law provides for the possibility of a concession act to provide for the upper limits of port taxis that the concessionaire will be entitled to charge. It also introduces the possibility of granting the authorisation to carry out port operations, the implementation of procedures prescribed by the Public Private Partnership Act and the concession law, in order to ensure the development of terminals for those ports for which companies have not shown a market interest in investment. The law also prescribes a way of categorizing the waterway of maritime character in the event of some changes on the waterway, all in order to ensure safe navigation. When it comes to training crew members, training centre training is given additional obligations and standards to increase the quality of the training of crew members. This year, the construction of technical documentation for the construction of a national academy for the training of crew members of ships and other persons in transport began. This academy is being talked about years ago, and now there will be a first concrete step in this matter. In the case of amendments and additions to the Electronic Business and Electronic Identification Act, the law adopted in 2017 is fully in line with the European EIDAS Directives. The aim of these changes is to increase the scope of electronic communication in real life when it comes to trust services. The main three things contained in these bill proposals are the cross-border interoperability of registered electronic identification schemes that will allow our people living outside the country to use our e-government services. Another thing as an important change is a remote identification, that our citizens, our people living outside the country, as well as foreign citizens, can obtain a certificate or electronic signature without coming into the service provider's room, and remote identification will provide other electronic services that can be issued remotely. The third newspaper is a certification of the means to create electronic seals and signatures. The law intended for a body to be formed for certification, but that has not happened so far. Therefore, this law provides for this accreditation procedure, i.e. Qualification checks are carried out by the ministry, which will allow some domestic products to be used in the EU if they want to be accredited there as well. The Ministry of Trade and Tourism continues to have an obligation to promote the use of qualified electronic certificates, and it is necessary that service providers allow simpler use of electronic means in terms of simplifying applications and procedures. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on special conditions for the construction of apartments for members of security forces, the 2018 Law provided for typical construction of these buildings. These additions provide for a number of technical changes, the most significant of which is that the investor can build a space for commercial activities with the content needed by the residents of the building complex. The most common are dislocated buildings and complexes located outside the city zone, and residents of these buildings need the basic contents needed by each household. It is primarily thought of commercial activities such as markets and pharmacies, parking places and other spaces that are necessary for housing. The amendments to the law will allow the construction of underground and underground block garages, which was certainly a lack of existing rules. It's simply about changes that will clearly regulate shortcomings, and it's all in the interest of the tenants of these buildings. The proposal for a law on subways and urban railways defines the processes of construction methodologies and procedures, as well as the system of methroom management. The law is one of the most complex infrastructure projects in Serbia, and will be the basis of a public transport that is otherwise very burdened and is very important for the development of the overall economy, especially the city of Belgrade, as well as for the whole of Serbia. The law will help faster and simpler implementation of projects from land expropriation processes, to issue the necessary permits and speed up public procurement procedures necessary for the implementation of the project. The start of the project is expected by the end of this year. The estimated value of two Belgrade Metro lines is about six billion euros. The first line connecting Zeleznik and Mirievo should be released in 2028, and the second line of the subways will connect Mirjevo and Zemun. The subway will be built on the example of French subways. The planned deadline for completion of the project is expected in 2033. It is interesting that public stations of the metro system will be awarded an architectural competition to help citizens come up with the best idea solution. We heard from the minister who does everything for the task force responsible for the implementation of this project, which is another guarantee that the project will be done on time and within time limits. All these six laws that are on the agenda today will be supported by the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6720	I thank the MP Slavenko Unkovic. The word has been made by the People's MP, the Vladan Zagradian.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6721	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliaments, I will refer in my discussion to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Conditions for the Implementation of Apartments Construction Projects for Security Forces. The basic law was adopted in 2018 as a country's strategic decision to allow security forces to resolve the housing issue under favourable conditions far more stimulating than market housing. This law has suffered several changes since adoption and has been improved in its content each time, which is the case now. In 2019, a significant change has been made which means extending the right to new categories of persons who can achieve the possibility of buying an apartment under more favourable conditions, which means fighters, members of the homes of fallen fighters, wartime military people with disabilities and peacetime military disabilities. We will agree that the contribution of these persons to earlier war actions is immeasurable in terms of the preservation and defence of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and indeed this change was necessary both because of the resolution of their housing issue and because of their sense of security and confirmation that the state has not forgotten them and that it highly values and values their contribution to the defence of the country. The passing of this kind of Lex specialis speaks of the country's special concern for members of security forces, because they are exposed to constant risk, and to unrare and life-threatening dangers, so that the least the state needs and must do for those who watch over the security of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they and their families have a roof over their heads. This kind of state approach, therefore, stems from the role and importance of all security forces for the preservation of peace and territorial integrity, and in particular taking into account the fact that the largest number of outstanding housing issues employed by state authorities is right among security forces around 19,000. Addressing this problem is a public interest in the Republic of Serbia, as this strengthens confidence in the country, which further strengthens the overall system of national security of the Republic of Serbia. It is a convenient opportunity to mention that at a time of socialism, resolving the housing issue was one of the national priorities. In then-SFRJ, JNA officers had a problem with housing wherever they served. It should also be pointed out that at that time, socialism times, all employees dealt with housing issues relatively quickly. At that time there was a housing fund from which apartments were built for employees, and he financed from contributions that all employees paid from personal incomes. So it was a time when work was appreciated and workers, and soldiers, and police officers, and doctors and all other professions that were of particular importance both to the development of society and to the security of all citizens. Fortunately, Serbia is now returning to some extent to the concept, aware that the motivation of soldiers, police officers and other security sector members is of paramount importance and settled housing issues. This revitalises the role of security forces, which are a backbone and guarantee of our territorial integrity, a guarantee of freedom and a guarantee of every citizen's right to live peacefully and peacefully, without fear of his own personal safety and security of his family. Also, by investing in national security, not only through this law, but through a series of laws that we adopted in parliament in the previous period, which are aimed at the development of the entire security system, we are also able to restore dignity to all members of the security sector. We must not forget the period after October 5th, when the security system reform actually meant the planned and almost total destruction of the military, weapons and write-off of the applicable military technique, which led to security forces losing confidence both in their service and in their own country. This period is behind us, but it took a lot of effort and knowledge that even in less favourable economic conditions, through continued investment, commitment to reforms and the development of the entire security system, we return members of the security sector to the place they belong and deserve by their contribution. The SPS Group and I personally believe and we will push for a future period of time to catch that a circle of persons who can buy an apartment under more favourable conditions will soon expand to employees in health, education, scientific community, so that we can enable all categories of persons serving the state to provide a roof over their heads. In particular, the amendments to the laws on the agenda today aim to improve legal solutions and to specify the provisions relating to the conditions for obtaining the right to dwellings in this project. The legal framework is improved by strengthening the control of persons who can apply for apartments under this law, which is achieved by introducing a single electronic register. What is most important for security forces is that the price of these apartments per square can't exceed 500 euros. It is also how stimulating, especially today when prices in the apartment are growing dizzy. Finally, I have to point out that the members of the security sector are people who do the most complex jobs in the country, which relate to all security in the state and all its citizens. With all the risk that their work carries, they must be adequately rewarded, and through this respect of their basic needs of life, which is to be taken care of by the state, it shows that they are particularly concerned about these people. The SPS Group and I personally welcome and support any legal solution that goes towards improving the position of security forces and in the voting day, we will support the amendments to this law and other proposed laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6722	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6723	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. I think that in this conference we have made many good decisions and decisions and laws and that every debate and controversy has been constructive, but my personal opinion somewhere that today's session and the laws that are in front of us are best depicted by responsible SNS policy and President Alexander Vukic, because so many quality, constructive and important laws in one day that we are going to consider today I really don't think that we've been able to have a very long time. Each of these laws requires special address and special time, but as a large number of fellow MPs have been reported, I will make an effort to cut short and look at something that interests me personally and something that I have participated in several years ago. Of course, it's about the proposal for a law on subways and city railways, for the simple reason that my function as head of the parliamentary group in the Belgrade City Assembly has led me somewhere to follow everything that's been going on over the last few years, as far as the subway is concerned. Unfortunately, like many of my colleagues, like you today, you are the subject of the mockery of that part of people who have not only Belgrade, but you have ruined all of Serbia and have reversed it in every way and in every sense. I remember very well in 2008 and 2009, when the mayor promised to start building the subway next year, so he promised to happen in a year. In the end, none of it happened, and it all came down to some kind of empty promise, and as many times before that, the topic of Belgrade's subway was just petty politics, a topic with which it was flirted and tried to grab any even cheaper political point in any way. How much misunderstanding of people was about the problems of the citizens of Belgrade is also pictured in what we have heard today from previous colleagues of speakers that one line of the subway will be 21km long, another 19, but people who know the opportunities in the city of Belgrade can confirm that at the time of DS and Dragan Gilas we did not have this many miles of paved streets, and now we are only talking about building a metro. When we talk about the subway, we can't help but think about how it's been mentioned in our country since the 1950s and that many authorities in the previous period have either had no strength, will or had no means or ability to engage in such a serious project. But you'll all agree with me that only coming to power from the SNS has gained the conditions that, despite the other projects that we've talked about here today, something that certainly Belgrade deserves a long time ago, which is that, like many other metropolis, there's a metro. Metro is now not just a question of whether we will make it easier for citizens to function, whether they will move easier in the city, whether they will come faster from point A to point B. Metro will raise the standard of living in our city and be a confirmation of just another responsible SNS policy. But above all, what I have pointed to during previous discussions on different topics and issues, it will be another proof that what President Aleksandar Vukic promises, he says, is to fulfill it. You know, in 2018, in a campaign for the city of Belgrade, for the Belgrade City Assembly, it was not a day that one of the former regime's representatives made fun of it and tried to hide himself and his failure and his incompetence and the fact that, while they ran the city for 12 years, they did absolutely nothing good for him. What they did, what they can't argue with, is that bridge, it's where they earn fat money. There are countless affairs here, since consulting services paid 2.5m euros or 3m euros to a company that deals exclusively with the sale of ships and spare parts for ships. So what did they advise anyone here or what ship bought the city of Belgrade? But let's not get into that extreme. Dear Minister, I think you are aware of the responsibility and honor you currently have as you are and what you will be in the work group in one project that definitely marks the new page of our country's life. I agree with colleagues who are not from Belgrade, who are saying it is very good news for them and that it is looking forward to them, because essentially this Belgrade will not only make progress, but the whole of Serbia will advance. I think that everyone in this room today, especially my respected fellow Members of the People, must be happy and proud of the fact that today they will discuss this, and in the day of the vote they will support these laws, especially this law. For the simple reason when that metro ends, which will remain hundreds of years after us, and we will be able to say that we have had the honor, the privilege, to discuss this law and vote for it. Whether or not anyone would accept it today in our country, this law is only the first in a series of steps to print a new page of our country's history. We have a great privilege and honor to sit here today and discuss this today. It is a special honor and privilege for us who belong to the SNS parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, because it was our promise, because with this promise we came out to the citizens and said that we could do it and that we would do it. I see that some people now have a problem, they say – so it's only the 2028th line. Now the problem is, it's no problem that you waited 50, 60, 70 years, which couldn't end then, now the problem is five more years. From my personal angle and my own perceptions, I can say that it doesn't matter, be it 10 or 15 anyway, but Belgrade has to get the subway because it deserves it, and that's why I can't realize that it's too much for people to be counting on lies, untrues, fictions, to be consecrated to Alexander Vukic for all the results and everything we achieve today as a country, by targeting his son as some kind of criminal and drawing his target. I can't accept that Dragan Gilasu is allowed everything, but everything, in a campaign to somehow try to throw in the shadows, including this subway law, and we're going to start building the subway by the end of the year. It's amazing that he's trying to deal with all of us who are just asking a question. Did he have to cost that bridge that much? Did some dinar or euro of the bridge's price end up in some of the 53 accounts in different 17 countries, 68m euros as it turns out that Dragan Gilas has a white world? Why were we as citizens of Belgrade and all of us sitting in this hall as citizens of Serbia being punished because he was his position as mayor, director, any office or any other DS official only used himself for his own wealth and narrow circle of people surrounding him. I'm proud and I'll end up with it, and I'm proud to be part of a team of people who struggle daily to make our Serbia even more beautiful and even better places to live. When I spoke in the City Assembly, the first time we discussed preparatory documents and everything about subways, I showed that we have the privilege of talking today, but also on this higher level, I will be especially happy and pleased that in the day of the vote and this law, as well as everyone else. Your respected ministers are just for the sake of the public and for the other speculations that have occurred in the last few days. I'd just ask you two short questions just so you can tell the citizens what they're most interested in. The first question is, when are we going to see the first one, and if I know it, when are we going to see the first works on building the subway? For the simple reason that citizens are eager to see the project and that promise is fulfilled. The second question is building apartments for security personnel. Unfortunately, part of the opposition, incapacitated in the lack of its programme, plan or any idea, is attacking us that no apartments have been built so far, that they don't know where they are or what cities they're in. Well, here's what I'm gonna ask you to say and tell us what period do you expect us to continue with these projects and with such good laws? At the very end, both you and your associates, as well as the entire government, I want a lot of success, and I want you to continue on this path that you've been taking, which was headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, because we don't have another country to this Serbia, and that's why together we have to make a better and even better place to live, for all of our children, for generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6724	Thank you. The word has a minister, Momirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6725	Thank you for this presentation, thank you for asking. I will leave immediately after we have already elaborated as many times as a decade this waits, as many times as this has been announced, how many times this announcement has disappointed the citizens of Belgrade, how many times this promise has remained empty. We're already working on this whole project, I read at the beginning, a series of steps and studies that we've adopted so far, which is for some engagement. The first citizen works, on this grand project we will begin on November 1st of this year, and it will be a big opening of papers that will not stop until 2028 when we open and finish the first line. I just want to remind you, we don't have the right to wait ten or 15 years, citizens see it differently, they don't expect us to. We have to finish the first line by 2028. We have to finish the second line in 2030. That's what we promised people, and if we can't do it, if we can't finish all these big projects that Katarina was talking about, we need to move. Then we're not you. It doesn't matter what this is more than what they did to us in the last five decades, it doesn't have to be an excuse for us. We have to do this all, it's just history ahead of us. We can do it, we have that power. We who are in this task force are already working very hard on this. Keep in mind how many plots for expropriation, the conversion of public land has been done so far and how many of them are involved. You know, we're only on one part of the project between Preljina and Požega, on the territory of the Municipality of Cačak, exploited 1440 parcels. We are now working on over 4,000 catastrian plots at the rapid track from Novi Sad to Saturday. I don't know if citizens, as MPs, have any idea of the scope of the work that precedes the work on all infrastructure projects. I'm saying that this is cat cough for us, this is the biggest project in Belgrade's history. This is one project that will move the whole city two steps ahead. Nothing will ever be the same when we finish this. Five years is a short period. Maybe it's been working for us as politicians for five years, no, five years will fly if we don't work seriously, and I'm telling you, what I assure you every day, a team of people working on this thing, is the most serious thing we've ever managed to get together. The most serious engineers, the most serious project managers, the most serious traffic, construction, machine engineers, and we'll end it all. Be assured all of you and all of us who are in this together will be very proud and it will be one real legacy of this policy or the policy of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. As for the second question, you know, Catherine said how to defend herself. We're building seven thousand apartments for members of the Security Service. These are the same characters, to correct people, I haven't been in politics for a long time, and I have to concentrate a lot when I'm exposed, I'm used to a different kind of communication, but really everything I'm saying, I'm speaking from the heart. We work for those people who stood on the defender of the homeland, defend themselves against attacks all over the world, isolated from the whole world, who in the most difficult conditions of isolation managed to keep them proud, who at the end of 2012, brought down a small handful of soldiers, which is a question of whether they could start a few tanks. One aircraft in operational use. It was an army of the Republic of Serbia up to ten or eight years ago. It's not that army anymore, it's not your people anymore, and we want to know, and maybe we have that responsibility for letting it all happen. Maybe we should have taken over before, maybe we didn't convince the citizens enough that they had to give us trust to try the root to stop those things from happening. Our army from one of the winners of the military who endured the NATO Pact attack led to the formation of commissions to establish some procedures, that's the reality we found. Maybe it's our responsibility to let them, too, we may not have convinced the citizens, maybe because of all that we feel now, and the president may have launched that initiative in the coming years that no member of the security service has an unresolved housing issue. Everyone must have a safe roof, to know that his family has a place to sleep, to have something to eat, yes, if the state invites him tomorrow to defend that country to know what it is and why it defends and we have to do it and I don't know if those people saw it two, three weeks ago when we handed over 548 keys to the Yugoslav settlement in Novi Sad. We'll build 1,400 more apartments in Novi Sad. We end 500 apartments in Belgrade by the end of the year. We're getting ready to go. In total, there will be about 3,000 apartments in Belgrade. 200 apartments were completed in Vranj, in Kragujevac and Kraljevec we end up in the next month 200 apartments, Kragujevac 216 apartments. We plan to build 756 apartments in Kragujevac, in King 747, as I said in Novi Sad 1.424, in Vranje 298, in Nis and Sremska Mitrovica by 190, and in Nis we really have to make additional efforts to start this site. I've really done this a lot. We haven't achieved adequate dynamics here, and we have to change that. Our goal is and our goal is that no member of the security service, not one of our soldiers, not one of our officers, a member of the security services, an officer in prison has an unresolved housing issue, if we don't do it for nothing, we invest and raise this economy will have no one to defend us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6726	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6727	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers Momirović, respected assistant ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, will look back at the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business, as well as the proposal for a Metro Law. This first law, the Law on Electronic Business, is an important segment in the process of digital transformation of our society. Since we started from scratch just a few years ago, digitisation in Serbia today represents an unconstitutional process and gives visible results in all sectors, in all areas and it completely changes our life, business, communication. This has been demonstrated particularly during the pandemic of the coronary virus, when there has been a significant transition from classical electronic business and this transition has been significantly facilitated if a qualified electronic certificate is used and when there are services that provide electronic and do not require physical presence. I will remind you that in 2017, when the minister was Rasim Ljajic, we passed a law establishing a legal framework and a basis for the development of electronic business in the Republic of Serbia. He is freely able to say, he was a reform law and a revolutionary law in this area, but since the world is changing at an unpredictable rate, there is a need to improve legal solutions, to further improve electronic business, and therefore, we have today and these proposed amendments to the law. The paper compared to the applicable law is the introduction of a level of identification, recommended delivery and archiving, i.e. long-term storage of electronic documents. The importance of this law is that it will enable a complete replacement of paper by electronic means, and the transition by electronic means. Also, the law regulates and secure delivery and the issue of keeping electronic documents. No authority can no longer challenge an electronic document, nor ask for paper from the economy, or citizens. The advantage of electronic services is that the economy and citizens will be free of paperwork and unnecessary costs. Electronic services save our time, but also preserve the environment, because reducing the need for paper, reducing and cutting forests, and fostering sustainable development. Somewhere I read the information that, say, one chain of bakers, for just five years of work, it takes 600,000 registrators for paper documentation, and each of these registries keeps 150 to 500 documents. It's about 50 kilometers away, paper documents kept for ten years. By switching to an electronic form of business, it will no longer be necessary. When we talk about this, we can imagine what happens to big business systems and banks, which will now operate exclusively electronically, and will not be obliged to keep paper documentation. That's it, you'll agree to big savings. Different institutions, banks, systems, have paid millions of euros so far to keep paper documentation. It is also defined by the draft law that the service provider must access the personal data in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and this is very important. What I would still point out for this bill is that if the state authority issues an electronic document, instead of stamps and signatures, the document will contain a qualified electronic seal. Such a document has the same legal fact as that it contains its own signature, or physical seal. The law also regulates the legal fact of electronic delivery, the data sent or received through electronic delivery services, cannot be disputed by the legal force because they are in electronic form. I would quote here NAED, which estimated that this bill has given a good and sufficiently open legal framework, to enable safe electronic business, and at the same time for future electronic transactions, in line with the development of new technologies. In order for the law to be fully applied as soon as possible, it is necessary to draw up a sublegal act as soon as possible, since it is provided for by the draft law. And lastly, I want to point out that over the past few years, the development of the Serbian administration has made significant progress and is going towards the goal of making modern electronic administration available to all services online, as well as paying for these services. This law will certainly allow for further modernisation of public administration and enable citizens to have easier access to public authorities. All this will allow cheaper, more efficient and safer business, which will be useful for both citizens and the economy and public administration. I think it is an important direction, both the Serbian Governments and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, to complete the process of improving and strengthening the infrastructure in digitalisation, i.e. the Internet network, to make fast internet available to everyone, because you will agree, citizens and businesses, cannot use e-government services if they have a weak or almost no internet. Much has been done in that field, and I hope that this process will end very quickly. Finally, I would also refer to the Metro Law, which has long been waiting for Serbia, and it is clear to all what the metro means for one city, for one state, faster communication, traffic release, healthier environment and the involvement of foreign and domestic performers, each building also promotes GDP growth. I would like to express here the agreement with you that the beginning of this year, the first line of the subway, which will connect the railway across the Sava Square, through the Square of the Republic and the Mirjeva, then the second phase that will connect Zemun and Mirijevo and the third phase that will connect New Belgrade and Banja, will completely change the life and image of the capital. And finally, I want to point out that the metro is necessary for the development of Belgrade, but also for the easier and more comfortable life, not only of Belgraders, but also of those who come to Belgrade. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support both these two draft laws and other proposals on the agenda in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6728	Thank you. Time has been spent for your parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6729	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have extremely important laws on the agenda. At the very beginning of my discussion, I will refer to the law on sailing and ports on internal waters. Our country has a central geostrategic position in the region. In addition to investment in road and rail infrastructure, the role of water traffic and ports is very important parts of the infrastructure through which goods are transported by inland waterways. Thus, ports are the main hubs on the transport network, attract economic activities and enable the development of our country and region. I would also remind the very beginning that Serbia is one of 11 members of the Danube Commission, an international organisation whose aim is to free navigation of the Danube and protect the interests of the Danube countries, as well as to create closer economic and cultural ties between member states and other countries. The idea to increase domestic waterway goods transport by 80% by 2040 compared to today's traffic, which is also the transnational goal of all the countries through which the Danube is going through, is a great idea. Cooperation, integration, free movement of goods and people are very important for the region and Europe, because there is no economic development, new investment, trade and better life for all citizens without integration. It is also very important to focus our work on further creating conditions for safe navigation, to amend and supplement this law that is today on the agenda and more difficult. Serbia today is an economically and politically stable country and is able to respond to all needs since we are recognized in an international environment by quality traffic, construction and machinery engineers. In 2013, the government of the Republic of Serbia established the Port Management Agency and adopted the Water Traffic Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia from 2015 to 2025. A transport network in Serbia that makes the Danube waterway 588km long with all its tributaries, along with road and rail corridors, is particularly important as part of the European transport policy. The strategy plans to improve and speed up the development of port infrastructure. Amendments and additions to this Act propose the possibility to implement the procedure for granting the port's performance authorisation in accordance with the provisions of the Public-private Partnership and concessions Act and the establishment of a special purpose company between the Government and the Alternative Investment Fund, which will be granted at the same time to invest in several individual terminals. One small suggestion from the minister, given that the strategy expires in 2025, the suggestion would go in the direction of already forming a working group that would look at the results of its application, but also to go towards planning a new strategy aimed at further raising and strengthening infrastructure, fleets and investing in personnel that should be our priority. Let's just say, it takes ten years for the ship's commander to be educated, not to mention that many of them leave the country after the process is over. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law also introduces the possibility of the concession act to provide for the above limits of port taxis which the port concessionaire will have the right to charge from the port user, and if an economic-financial justification is established during the preparation of the concession documents, which aims to prevent possible abuse of the situation of concessionaires which could otherwise impose unfairly high taxes. The Socialist Party of Serbia supports the development of ports, port operations and port infrastructure, whereby concessions themselves need to be respected and committed by concessionaries to social responsibility in terms of strengthening the local community and all local self-governments gravitating around and self-government investing education, local economy in relation to non-portal activities and respecting environmental standards. Also, passenger traffic in the Danube in recent years has seen constant and stable growth. This also contributes to the development of domestic and regional economies and opens up opportunities for new jobs. Nautical tourism is becoming more and more popular year by year. Tourists have the opportunity to tour numerous sites, such as forts, monuments, nature parks, and ports are facing the needs of tourists and provide a whole range of different services. But when it comes to foreign tourists, there's one obstacle I want to point to. And if the provisions of the laws concerning this matter are not subject to these amendments, it is in fact that foreign tourists, in accordance with Article 46a of this Act, have an obligation at each port to carry out passport and customs controls to get off the ship and to visit our valuable monuments of culture and thus increase tourism traffic. According to the existing legal solution, for now the port captain approves the landing of ships in international traffic outside a certain border crossing for water traffic, only in order to repair on board or similar circumstances. For example, a large cruiser that sails the Danube cannot agree to Golubac to visit the foreign tourists' fortress. I ask the minister to consider this problem in order to resolve it in some subsequent amendment to the law in favour of tourism in Serbia. Another very important note regarding our special ties with Republika Srpska. Following an example of the construction of an airport in Trebinj, which will be financed by the state of Serbia, the construction of a multimodal port on the Sava River in Republika Srpska in Gradišca or at Banja Luka, which is the largest economic centre, should be considered. The project would improve river infrastructure, further strengthen the economy of the entire region, and strengthen stronger ties that already exist between Serbia and Republika Srpska. Despite the fact that the global epidemiological situation did not bypass the port sector last year, it marked the growth of freight traffic and we took second place in the Danube region. This fact suggests that water traffic, a transport branch that we can rely on, especially during crisis periods. Our authorised representative, the esteemed engineer Mrkonjic, has already talked about the proposal for a subway law, I will only add that this project is one of the most complex infrastructure projects for which capacity and political will exists today. I agree with what Milutin Mrkonjic said it was necessary for the state to stand behind such a big project and it has become a reality today. Also, what you ministers said will reduce traffic jams by building a subway. When we talk about Belgrade, we have become witnesses that they are getting bigger and that really Belgrade needs a subway as soon as possible. I would take the opportunity to just remind myself that by the mid-1990s, about 250km of railway, 30km of tunnels, eight kilometers of bridges, of which is the most important two-way railway bridge above the fair, the first underground station called "Vukov Monument", which would also be a subway station, then all the return tunnels and Belgrade Railway Station -- a centre, known today as Prokop, which ends today. I would also like to remind you of what our respected engineer Milutin Mrkonjic has succeeded in doing after NATO aggression, and as far as the country is concerned, and the restoration of our infrastructure traffic, in which he was involved, or at whose head he was at the time. He was doing it in a great way. Finally, I would also like to say a few words about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of the project "Building apartments for members of the Security Forces". We have in mind the weight, importance and complexity of doing their work, the contribution they have made in defending the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country and providing security and security to all our citizens. Unfortunately, many of these members have not today solved their housing issue, which this law now allows them. In my previous presentations, I also talked about the immeasurable contribution that our healthcare professionals make at this time and in the last year and some days. I think it would be important to start thinking about building some apartments for them in the next period. That would be one way to thank them for everything our healthcare workers have done for all of us in the previous period. I also think that it would be one way to talk about young doctors and general health care professionals, it would be one way to motivate them on the one hand, and on the other hand, keep them in our country to stay here and be our doctors who will learn from our colleges here and apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6730	I thank Parliamentarian Ugljeshi Markovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6731	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in one part of your presentation, you also touched that in 2012, after the shift led by Dragan Djilas and Boris Tadic, there was only one aircraft in our air force that could take off. I mean the Air Force, the military. Let me tell you another piece of information, Mr. Minister, about the airing that Dragan Sutanovac organized together with Gilas in 2010. On the planes, the tires were exhausted, i.e. their resources ran out, so the Military Institute had to extend the resources on the plane tires. It only speaks of the state our army was in and shows the state of our country. Now that other part of the same year, but only for one other area of the Air Force. To be clear, the Air Force is spending money. In addition to security, this country has no other use, but civilians should make money. We had, like now, a national air carrier named JAT. We had in the JAT squadron seven Boing 737 that we got under privileged conditions from the Boing producer, and most of all thanks to one of our companies, the first five-year-old from Triestenik who was a component of Boing and I think even the first commercial plane belonged to that same JAT. Do you know how many of those planes were in their annual state in 2012? Only three, Mr. Minister. During that period JAT had only three planes on which it was possible to fly, the remaining four were cannibalized. To translate, parts of them were removed so these three could fly. It's just one part of the story we found in 2012. My colleague Katarina Rakic calculated that in the past four, five years some 315km of highways have been built on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in different categorisations, but these are highways in full profile. In 2012, we waited in the same state in which Serbia waited for independence, that is, the collapse of Yugoslavia, which was about 300km of highways, from Shid to Nis, and that story ended. There have been attempts, Mr. Minister, to make some highways. I would like to call one highway and one direction Skadar on Bojana, which is the highway from Sudotica to Belgrade, Subotica-Novi Sad-Belgrade, has been made for a decade. It began by Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic, even that part, it is not even the highway, that share that existed between Saturday and Belgrade and where some toll was charged, given to a private road maintenance company that was supposed to get a construction job and a concession for that highway. I can say that they were just charging tolls, that they didn't do anything from what was scheduled, so at one point, it seems to me right after or during the emergency situation, literally, special units forced those tenants off that highway and returned to state property. Something moved a little over the next few years. The famous bridge on Vienna. The second tape completed, the highway was never completed during the former regime. It was completed in the first year since the SNS was in power. What surprised us, when it came to that highway, is that for a long, long time we've been getting bills for the works done on that highway, especially when it comes to the bridge at Beska. I don't believe even a day today that we know exactly how much that bridge is paid and don't, Minister, be surprised if you get an account after ten years. That's how the former regime conducted investment. A famous bypass around Belgrade that was, I can't say, semi-built, built one smaller part, about 30%, made one of the bridges, made some tunnels, one August tape. In 12 years' time, do you know what happened on the bypasses around Belgrade? Just reconstructing the road from the tunnel to the auto-market and nothing else. If something is set, then set to run in a campaign and there's a story stopping. It's a stealth highway. There were many of them, but one, in my opinion, is a reminder that no longer to be done, which is that the highway was paid to a foreign company that was in a strange way connected to the Delta company in Serbia, got a job, got money from the state, and then went into bankruptcy and went into bankruptcy from Serbia. That's what I mean by the highway from Presevo to Vranj. If I make a parallel, in 50 years, that great Yugoslavia in Serbia has made 300km of highways. In less than 10 or five or six years, Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic made 315km of highways and are still being made. Just to have some comparison of how it used to be and how it is now. He's talking about the subway. First, if you look at how the former regime evaluates our story around the subway, and who they have also announced in their minds, dreams or their own lies tried to start, the thesis is already going through - and what we need, and what's most important, how much is it going to cost and whether costing is justified in economic terms, in terms of improving the quality of life of building such a metro or of that idea we should give up. First, to be clear, the Belgrade Metro today is starting its own life in a certain way, by passing its own law. The Belgrade subway could not be built during the old Yugoslavia, the large one, for political reasons, and was already needed. Belgrade as the capital of Yugoslavia, and for both Serbia, as the Serbian capital, could not have had such an economic or any other advantage over the other capitals of the other SFRY members, and therefore did not get a metro. It's a miracle how the then mayor Pesic managed to make Gazela. It's a miracle and, in any case, we're grateful for it. After our isolation, to skip the years of wars and sanctions, but there was a shift on it, and there began this one story of the regime of Slobodan Milosevic by opening that underground station at Vuk's monument, and that's where it all stopped, and since then we've only had certain promises that this will happen in some future. When they start attacking whether it is necessary for Belgrade and whether we are doing it exclusively in glory, to help us win some next elections, I must remind you that a similar campaign has been conducted against Belgrade on the water as well. You were not a minister at the time, and I don't know how much you participated in Serbia's political life, but I do know that my colleagues, my colleagues who supported the former regime, on the orders of Dragan Gilas, have tried to stop the project in every way possible. And now what hypocrites are and what double standards they are, they are the ones who are racing to make money that is highly doubtful, however, during their government buy apartments in that same “Belgrade on Water. ” Some even deal with transactions, i.e. they participate in the resale and sale of these apartments, which only shows how sincere they really were in that and when they attacked such a project, but shows us even more how dishonest they were in that part how much they really loved Serbia and their capital. You will immediately encounter the next ruling from the Fiscal Council, which will immediately calculate whether Serbia needs it or not. They're going to do an entire scientific analysis, that analysis that, let's say, was that the growth of employees didn't happen because there was no increase in GDP growth. Here, it's the President of the Fiscal Council, Uncle Paul, Grandpa Paul, as they call it, even presented at the Business Forum in Kopalnik. They will also try to convince us that these cars that are passing through Belgrade streets today, whose number is significantly higher in the last few years, are some stealth cars, that they do not exist as well as those newly employed from several years ago and that we do not need a Belgrade subway and that it would be better to focus that money in another direction, probably on the recommendation either Danica Popovic or Šoškovic or that Milojko Arsic. Those who have ruined the country now want to teach us how Serbia is led. I've done one analysis of everything that's happened or what's going to happen in the very near future, and you'll see that none of them are going to look at the essence, they'll look at only form, and if they can find some lack of shape to point out as a single fraud, because in the beginning they'll try to imagine that it's never going to happen, Dragan Gilas is that, and when it starts to materialise then by auto-projecting it will say that the assets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been stolen during the construction of that subway. It will always mention the famous malignant impact of debt and credit, if the loan is obtained from a particular or any financial organisation in China. It will always be a problem, and for that they will always be caught, and it will always be a mistake for Serbia and a difficult one, as something that prevents us or prevents us from joining the EU. Money is as good as any and has a price. Our policy is to choose the best price, and let those who will attack us think about it. Why, for example, am I, like, a folk MP from the Fireman, so from the inside, having a discussion about the Belgrade subway? In this year, how much more time has it taken me in the last few years, Mr. Minister, to get from Lasta's garage to the National Assembly than to get from the Fireman to the Lasta's garage. This only adds to Belgrade's need for the subway, but it also says that our citizens live much more politely and much better than it was six, seven, eight or ten years ago, because such situations and such crowds on the streets of Belgrade were only Friday or before a state holiday. Today they are daily and daily that it is necessary for Belgrade to finally get that subway. It will benefit much for the city of Belgrade, and eventually for the entire Republic of Serbia, from environmental protection, less exposure and less traffic jams, to all other economic indicators that Belgrade remains one, and Serbia, of course, is an attractive place for investment. I'm already warning you what the reactions of the former regime will be and in every way possible they'll try to stop you. Of course, Belgrade and a significant tourist centre, Mr. Minister, is why our Committee on Economy, which is also in charge of the tourism area, has carried out one, let me say, analysis, my colleague Markovic mentioned it. I am with you in some informal conversation when it comes to our port captains, if it is true that foreign cruisers entering the waterways of the Republic of Serbia can only make a dock in two places. Something like that has to end as much as tomorrow. There's no legal basis, so it could be just some decision from the Captain who owns a certain part of the Danube. That's got to stop right now. I understand that their excuse will be security, but you know what, they go with the following logic. If nothing sails, then we are the safest. Let the Lords take care of security, for that is why they receive huge wages, not very small ones, and let them not hinder other actions in Serbia from which they essentially receive their salaries and their earnings. Since my colleague Rakic even mentioned not only how many highways were built, but how many highways are being built at this time, I would just like to ask one question, since it has been a year since the Republic of Serbia, as well as the rest of the world, has been hit by the Covid virus epidemic and that before the epidemic, the participation of our construction industry in GDP was 5%, I would like to ask if at this point there are any developments, i.e. improvements or deteriorations in relation to the time before the pandemic broke out, given that even when the pandemic was provided with serious funding for very important projects in the Republic of Serbia? The second question, also related to the construction and protection of the environment, in which cities will begin to build the first wastewater purifiers contracted with a commercial contract with China, and when is the signing of the first annex expected, and what is the municipality concerned? Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6733	Thank you. The word has Minister Momirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6734	Dear Mr. Arsic, thank you for your presentation, thank you for your comments. First of all, I would like to inform you that very quickly, you will be coming from Pogorets to Belgrade even faster. In the next month to the month and a half, we'll sign a commercial contract. We are working on technical documentation to start work on the fast traffic station Požarec, exit from the highway Požarec-Velika Gradište-Golubac. For us a very important project, we've been working on it for some time now. He did not get adequate public attention, and this will really speed up the whole part of Serbia to connect even faster and to improve the communication with Belgrade. I have to tell you that your problems will look even bigger when you get to Belgrade from Pogorets and have trouble parking until we build a subway. Then things will change drastically. As you said yourself, of course, the pandemic has left serious consequences for the entire economic life at first moment. Everything got stiff, we didn't know what we were up against, and that left us with a lead in the first two quarters of 2020. Very soon, after that, and especially in the last quarter of 2020, we banned the pandemic word as an excuse for any delays in construction work. Simply, the work is done in the open. We all know that the risk of spreading the infection in the open, as far as we're concerned, is minimal. After that, the president secured all vaccines. We allowed our partners to be vaccinated, all of our employees, and we didn't want to delay any projects, not a day more than what has to be done, which resulted in a delay in the first two quarters, we made up for all delays very quickly. I must inform you, you and all the MPs, that we have no delays on any infrastructure strategic project. On the contrary, we have speeded up the work on all projects and we expect that all will be completed either within or before the deadline. I would remind you of what we are working on: Preljina-Požega, Moravski Corridor, Fruskogorski Corridor, Novi Belgrade-Surcin, short share, in downtown Belgrade, but very demanding because it passes through the city centre, it needs to be expropriated, the entire infrastructure required by one city to move out, build, so that, however small the project is, it is very demanding, Valjevo-Lajkovac, Kuzmin-Sremska Rača, Ruma-Shabac, of course, the Shabac-Loznica highway, fast traffic, Ruma-Shabac, we are already doing a lot of work and we expect to go from Šapac to Loznica very quickly, the Velika Gradište-Glubac. In a few months, we're signing a commercial contract. In the fall, the work begins. We remain part of "the smile of the Vojvodina", as we call it, the Red-Becay-New Vienna-Srbobran-Kikinda. All investment projects somehow go from Belgrade to Novi Sad, from Novi Sad to Subotica. There we have indeed achieved remarkable dynamics, but Sombor and Kickinda and the cities on that corridor sort of seem to stay on the sidelines, both from investment in infrastructure and from major strategic investments. We have to change that. We got a warrant, and we're expecting it either by the end of this year, but to be completely open, it'll be a little bit more like the beginning of the next one, too. We will not fail to build serious infrastructure projects in any part of the Republic of Serbia, connect traffic and allow all people, all citizens of Serbia, to communicate better. What's the result of all of that, of course, is that in the first quarter, we had a growth of construction in GDP of 20%. What we expect in the second quarter is 40% growth. Of course the second quarter of last year was worse, it's hard to compare, but I'm talking about the amount of investment we're now conducting. There's no projection that's worse than the one we designed at the beginning of the year. I'd remind you, they made fun of us when we said we'd have a 6% growth. Great experts, these experts who didn't feel either the 1990s or the two-thousands or the major economic crisis in 2008 when unemployment grew to 25%, those people who laughed, who said that GDP growth would be about 2, 3, 3.5%, you know how they like to pack it up like that, so they know, 3.4, 3.5%. Now nobody argues that growth will be a minimum of 6%, and the good part of that growth is a building. We'll handle it. They quickly forget what they felt. At the most difficult moments for the Republic of Serbia and the 1990s and the twenty thousand years their standard was not compromised, and then they were in positions where they are now, and now, for 80 years, they're in the same positions and they're easy to make their comments, with heights, they're the smartest, they know everything. That's some kind of knowledge to adapt quickly and say something completely different from what you've been saying six months before, like you've always said it. These people who said three months ago that growth would be 2.5 to 3.5% now say – yes, growth will be a minimum of 6%, as if it were normal, as if growth of 1% was not the largest in Europe last year if we exempt of course from Ireland because it has certain specific conditions and is specifically reflected in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think we're really doing it, not as a government, but as all of us here as part of a political system, as part of a big movement, as part of the people who are part of a single system that makes up both the municipalities and the AP and the city of Belgrade who took the lead with the President of the Republic to get this country out of a situation that's been in one of Europe's fungi, isolated from everyone, crossed by everyone. We move forward and do not endanger our dignity, defend our people, defend all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and defend our citizens outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You mentioned a project that is of paramount importance to us, not to mention perhaps the most important. The highways, the tracks are politically clear projects. People see that. People measure success through that. When they talk about some past times, they say – yes, a lot of roads have been built although much less built than are now being built, but these times are also seen through these investments. Unfortunately, for the past 30, 50, 70 years, we have been pressured by various problems at that time to put simply ecological projects, a matter of dirty and polluted water into another plan. We have a situation today that all of our wastewaters are thrown directly into nature, then from nature we take that water and use it for drink. We've come into a situation all together to reopen that question, let's say - you don't see it quite so clearly. They've got people and bigger problems. Let's keep going that way, save some money, maybe we can do a more politically profitable thing. The president cut it off. We all agreed, of course. If we don't build a municipal and sewerage infrastructure in this investment wave, we don't build wastewater treatment plants, we don't clean up all that waste water that's more and more because of industry and because of other circumstances, we're going to have an incredible problem in the coming decades. We will leave our children permanently polluted land. We can't let that happen. That's more important to us than these highways. The environmental projects we're now implementing, which haven't been implemented for decades, that no one thought about just ten years ago, that wasn't a topic at all, are projects that we're going to pay maximum attention to. We will leave this country not only with a better infrastructure, not just with more factories, not just a surplus in trade with the Czech Republic, which is indeed one paradigm that is no longer being paid any more attention to, the rest of these projects. We're talking about the fastest railroad in Eastern Europe. Who can see it here? How do we explain that? Who can see that Serbia has the fastest track in Eastern Europe? We will allow Serbia to be a much cleaner country in the next five years. Eighty per cent of the local self-government of the Republic of Serbia will have wastewater treatment facilities. Waste water that goes into nature will be purified and we will not leave this disastrous challenge that we face our children. That's one fact. This project is moving very fast. We start with Novi Sad, Mali Crnić, Ade, Lazarec, Svrljiga, Varvarin, Vlasotina, Bor, Kladov, Krupnja, Lajkovec, Mionica, Obrenovac, Svilanjc, Vladič's Han, Vranjčka Banja, Aleksandrovac, Golubac and Cicevic. These are all the projects we're going to start this year. These are the projects we're going to start this year. These are projects we'll start in the next few months. We've been working on project documentation for a long time on the construction of municipal wastewater treatment infrastructure. Unfortunately for us, everything that precedes the construction work is not seen and cannot be valued, but I am confident and trust the MPs, the representatives of the people, very soon no one will be able to keep quiet and remain silent in front of these ecological projects that will change this country. We will all be able to make this country drastically clean together. We will leave our children one problem permanently solved and this may be of course with the metro and these other projects the biggest legacy of the policy of the President of the Republic and the politics of all of us. Once again, thank you, Mr. Arsic, for very good questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6735	I thank the minister. Next is counterpart Diana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6736	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, my colleagues from the SPS Group today spoke about the laws in the field of transport and construction, and I will refer to amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business. Amendments and additions to the Law do not apply directly, i.e. they do not have much to do with the areas of traffic and construction, but I certainly believe that they will be extremely useful to them, too, and that they will also be extremely important to these areas. In the previous period, we MPs in the National Assembly adopted several laws in the field of digitisation and electronic business, which speaks of the efforts and activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of our state to invest in the digitisation of our society, to bring the public administration closer to the citizens and to simplify and facilitate their everyday functioning. On the other hand, the goal is to meet European standards when it comes to this area. Digitalisation, as we all know, is a process that covers all spheres of social and private life, and there are almost no areas or activities in our society that technology and digitisation now do not touch. As part of the public administration system, in my former work and experience, I had the opportunity to see practical examples and results of digitisation in the public administration, which resulted in modernisation and public administration reforms, which we started in 2014. The results are viewed in a more efficient public administration, in a government closer to citizens, more modern local self-government and their way of functioning, as well as in all other bodies in our country. Especially if we look at the introduction of electronic administrations, there are significant results - the pooling of 13 databases into one central population register, numerous electronic services used today by almost all local self-governments, which are systems such as "The System 48 Hours", "Virtual Matika", electronic charge of administrative taxis, services that have enabled and facilitated the daily life of our citizens, such as e-Wrtić, e-baby and many others. In this way, the electronic administration has contributed to raising the standard of public administration functioning. We have thus made it easier for our citizens because we have reduced administrative costs, avoided unnecessary bureaucracy, but we have significantly saved them both time and money. With all these newspapers conducted in the functioning of the public administration, we have laid a good foundation for further digitization in recent years. That is why I believe that these amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business will contribute to this. The effects of the present digitisation process were especially seen during the coronary pandemic of the virus when, if there were no electronic administrations and all technologies in which we invested significantly during the previous period, it was difficult for us to address all the challenges and problems that the Kovid-19 virus brought with it and produced. We have made sure that the digitisation that we have invested significantly in may not be cheap, but we have also made sure that it is a much more expensive, slow and complicated administration, which would certainly, if we had not invested in it and had not reformed it and transformed it into a general public administration, certainly to create a new stalemate or problems in all business processes when it comes to our economy, but also in all other processes when it comes to our public administration. The very process of digitising the public sector, the economy and education in Serbia, as I said earlier, began a few years before the very pandemic of the coronary virus, in 2014, when we began to adopt the government's strategic documents and when it was actually one of the priorities of the government that was then formed. The current Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, made a major contribution there, but the successful continuation of the digitalisation process was certainly done by Minister Branko Ruzic. The most significant feedback from this significant investment in our digitization was just during the Coronal Virus pandemic, when we had the opportunity to see that all of our lives and habits, attitudes regarding digitisation have changed significantly when it came to the very communication between citizens, businesses and our country. What represents a great success is that during this challenging period we have successfully responded to the emerging situation, and this situation that is caused by the pandemic of the virus is encouraged many businessmen and our citizens to change attitudes about digitisation and to open up some new ideas, and thus also to influence the acceptance of all those services that we may not have used so far. He lays out teaching and electronic markets, meetings through "Zum Apps" and electronic banking, uncontactive delivery, uncontactive payment methods, have become something that is already normal for each of us. Then, the electronic document that we're talking about today became increasingly replaced by a classic paper document. Gradually, the electronic signature replaces the process of hand signing, and thus we have the opportunity to see that we have successfully passed on all our documents and to place the seal as a mandatory part of each document. The digitization itself is no longer an unknown and a challenge for all our citizens. It has become a solution to the daily lives of our citizens, especially the large number of citizens who have managed to recognize all the benefits of saving in using these services, simpler and faster ways of doing business, but also easier everyday life. I therefore believe that these amendments and additions to the Law will contribute and make easier use of the qualified electronic means we are talking about today, in terms of simplifying applications that allow the use of electronic certification. The introduction of a verification of the identity of users of qualified services by means of remote identification will be particularly important for all those citizens living abroad and that they will be able to use electronic services, as well as all kinds of digital business processes. These normative acts, as well as their successful implementation that we have here today, are of vital importance for the digitization of our society, because it has proved, as so far, that electronic services are precisely the services that simplify administrative processes, then save time and money for our citizens, and what is particularly important for our country, are making our public administration more efficient. The SPS parliamentary group considers the issue of digitising our society an extremely important issue, and we will support amendments and additions to this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6737	Thank you. counterpart Ljiljana Malusic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6738	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today we have a set of laws in the field of construction, transport and infrastructure, and I will talk about an extremely important law, and this is the proposal for a law on subways and city railways. Why? Because 50 years ago, since 1921, there has been talk of Belgrade having a subway, how we're going to build a subway, how we have a project, how we're going to bring Belgrade down to the rivers, how we're going to do an opera, and from that absolutely nothing happened by 2012, when Mr. Aleksandar Vucic and his party won the republican level and we're starting to work and build. Of course, we won in 2010, the two municipalities were in question, the municipality of Vozdovac and Zemun, and since then it has started something completely different, to change the images primarily of Belgrade and then all of Serbia. Work, order and discipline. I'll talk about the subway. I can't wait for it to start, but I really can't help but mention what Belgrade looked like once, what Serbia looked like until that year 2012. We go in order – completely devastated, destroyed factories, we all know that, 594 companies completely devastated, naked, unemployment 26%, we have to mention, highways as they were until the day of today, until 2012. So 400,000 people were fired. General disaster. Then someone says - citizens of the Republic of Serbia leave the Republic, from their queen, from their beautiful country. Well, they went back then, but not just then, they went back to the '60s, '70s, when they were wars in the '90s and then. Now, at least people are going from their country of origin. On the contrary, 70,000 young people have returned. When the crown was a problem, it returned to Serbia and entered 400,000 people. Not everyone else, people came back to work where they live, but they went in to get vaccinated. Why? Because we have four kinds of vaccines. Because we are the most equipped country in this part of the world. Because we help everyone, we have a high degree of empathy. We give vaccines whoever wants, we give vaccines to Montenegro to our brotherly republic, we give to Bosnia and Herzegovina, we give to Albania, we give to Macedonia, we give again. In two days, 22,000 people were vaccinated, a total of 39,000 data from a month ago, foreigners. At this point, a total of 3,250,000 were vaccinated, revaccinated 1,920,000. That's how it works. What my esteemed colleague said, before we go on about today's topic, we have to tell people what it was, what they were building, what they weren't building, what they were spending money on, because simply the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know. Corridor 10 was built like the Shkodra on the Bojana, so we could finish it. So, we finished Corridor 10, we're building Corridor 11, we're done highway "Milos the Great", we're working now Preljina-Požega, will be finished by next year, by January of the month 31 kilometers. That's the facts. We finished the Batočina-Kragujevac highway after all these years, finished the bridge on Osrežnica, the loop on Batajnica, revitalised 450 kilometers of first row roads. It's planned to build eight highways. This already builds the "Morjevski Corridor", builds the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica path, then begins to build the "Fruškogorski Corridor", builds Kuzmin-Sremska Raca, Iverak-Lajkovac, builds the road of Karadjordje, along the lines. So eight highways. As far as unemployment is concerned, it was 26%, today it's 9% due to herds. At one point before the curve, unemployment was 7.3% and this should be emphasized every day of God, for the record. They fired 400,000 people, we hired 300,000 people. Well, only President Vukic opened 230 factories. Now let me get back to the subway. Metro, it means metropolis. Belgrade will finally, thanks to this government and Mr. Vukic, the president of the Republic of Serbia will be the metropolis. It is by its spirituality, by its cultural historical heritage, but we will have a metro that is extremely important, we will relieve traffic. At the monthly level, Serbia receives 4,000 cars that pollute the environment. So, we're gonna unload traffic, there's not gonna be any more syringes. That's only for six years. The agreement was signed, Mr. Sinisa Mali and the finance minister signed the Agreement, the Memorandum of the Metro Construction Project in Belgrade, and the first phase of building the subway starts in December 2021, which is for every praise. Did anyone not have the courage, the courage, whether or not he had a vision, whether he had the money he spent on any projects, money laundering and other things, it's irrelevant that we were the first and only after 50 years of building the subway. The first line of the subway starts from the Maquis field, the Makiski deposit is being built, will go through Žarkova, then over the sugar canana, all the way to Radnica Street, to Belgrade on the water where the cross-section with the second stage of building the metro, then goes to the Square of the Republic, and then Luka Belgrade, Karaburma and Mirievo. It's the first stage of the subway. The second will be from Miriev to Zemun or from Zemun to Miriev, and the third phase will be Novi Belgrade, my Vozdovac, or Banjaca. Extraordinary, we'll cover the whole city. It is very important to point out that two French companies and one Chinese company will build a metro and that the Chinese will have about 70% of their duties in this project. They're going to build a subway, and the French are going to have electrical installations and everything. All the people in Serbia when they heard that the building of the subway finally started, because I'm traveling through Serbia, not only me, but all of my colleagues, we have feedback on it, what does that mean? First of all, ecology, second traffic release and what is most important in Belgrade is really becoming a metropolis. What else is there to say? We will revitalise Beovoz and that all suburban settlements will mainly be connected. It goes from the station in Zemun, so it will be connected to Barajev, there will be Lazarec, then Mladenovac, there will also be a line, a fast line that will go to Pancheva. So it's just work. We're also working on a fast track that's going to be over, and I hope very soon, and the first share of New Now will be over in December of this year, and I can't wait to get on that train, because it's going to be 220 kilometers an hour. Belgrade is moving forward. There are over 1,500 construction sites in Belgrade today. In 2012, there were 1,500 construction sites in all of Serbia, today we have 75,000 construction sites in Serbia. In order for my colleagues to continue, any honor to the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President, I will be very pleased to vote in favour of this law and not only this law, but everyone on the agenda, and to you alone, always be where the happy work is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6739	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Justin Pupin Koscal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6740	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is on the agenda of a very important bill and I am very pleased to discuss it. It is about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of housing projects for members of the Security Forces. Security is the need of each individual, each of us wants to be protected, and the task of the state is to protect its citizens. There is no sphere of action and work that has no contact points with security, because realising security is a condition for the maintenance and development of all other social spheres of political, economic, social and all others. Serbia's national security protects the national security system. National security policy is part of the common state policy and is implemented through a coordinated programme of measures and actions taken by the state to achieve the objectives of national security policy. Security challenges are unfortunately increasing, both internationally and internally. Many of them are emerging with new forms and stronger intensity, while new security threats arise, requiring adequate security access. It is of great importance, as well as the responsibility of the work that security forces carry out for our country's security by making a significant contribution to the security, defence of sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country and the preservation of public security, i.e. public order and peace, which is important to every citizen of our country. Just by estimating this role, the security forces of the state want to make life and work easier for all members of this sector. One of the ways the state cares is by far more favourable conditions, housing security. That is why in 2018, the Republic of Serbia passed a law defining the conditions, criteria, way and procedure for the implementation of housing projects for members of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the Ministry of Interior, the BIA and the Ministry of Justice, the Department of Criminal Sanctions, as well as for former members of the security forces, fighters, wartime military disabled and peacetime military disabled. The fact is that the largest number of outstanding housing issues employed by state authorities are among security forces. The amendments and additions to the laws that are now on the agenda, in addition to the closer definition of the way and criteria under which a person can apply for a flat under this programme, or to apply for the purchase of apartments under this law, are prescribed conditions for building space intended for certain commercial activities within these housing projects. These would be the contents necessary to meet the basic needs of life that would make life much easier for the tenants. This is also an opportunity to remind ourselves of the roles of the Serbian army through history, which stood out with special courage, as few people in the world can praise. Our army was never an aggressor, but a liberator, always on the right side, on the side of freedom. Knowing of the brave Serb armies in the Balkan and First World War, even Hitler, wanting to avoid conflict with the Serb army, met all the demands of Prince Paul before the Trinity Pact was signed. Our army bravely opposed NATO's aggression, thus proving again the importance of soldiers and their patriotism, which was more important than military equipment. It is this military morality and strength that must be strengthened and respected, and that is what Serbia today does by providing decent living conditions, and the apartment is one of the priorities. In order for a soldier to calmly defend his country, he must also know that his family is safe, secure and has a roof over his head. Those who sacrifice themselves for their country and are willing to give for it and their lives must know that the state cares for them. We Socialists support this concept, and at the same time we also advocate that members of other professions can also for themselves and their families to provide a safe home. Of course, in the voting day, we will support this proposal on amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6741	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Maja Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6742	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have a set of laws, of which I will put a special accent, and specifically refer to the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Construction. In fact, this is about two very important changes. The first amendment shall be regulated by the provisions of Article 2. The draft law, which regulates the time limit for obtaining the applicable permit in relation to those objects which are a building permit, the application of works, or the approval for construction, were based on earlier applicable laws, i.e. by 11 September 2009. Given that a significant number of investors failed to issue a valid licence within the given deadline, the need to extend this deadline has been recognised. Since the adoption of the Law on Planning and Construction of 2014 and the adoption and introduction of a unified procedure and its application, as well as the introduction of the Central Record of the United Procedure (Shortly: CEO), all requirements for the establishment of local conditions, building approvals, up to the use of the permit, have been significantly accelerated by obtaining a solution, and abuses have been prevented. Every citizen of our country can access the Central Record and check that any facility has building approval, thus ensuring largely the safety of the traffic of immovable property. This amendment extends the four-year period for those investors who have not received a valid permit within the time limit provided for to result in a further period of time from the date of entry into force of this law. The second amendment, which I certainly think is very important for our country in terms of investment development, is regulated by the provisions of Article 3. The proposal for this law, which regulates the period of validity of the planning documents adopted before 1 January 1993, as well as the deadline for the competent authorities in that period to bring and adopt the planning documentation. As it has been almost 30 years since then, since the deadline for drawing up the plans, it is necessary to extend the deadline for the adoption of these planning documents, given that the drafting and adoption of planning documents is of public interest to the Republic of Serbia. Why is it important to make plans? When we voted in this house last December and adopted the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we could see that one part of the budget concerned financing investments for the sake of the even development of all municipalities and cities on our country's territory. It is precisely because of the realization of planned investments that it is important to produce and adopt planning documents. The design documentation itself shall cover firstly the space for building buildings of different purposes on the basis of which the location conditions are established, including the building permit itself. In the environments that do not have the planned documentation, it resorts to illegal construction that pulls a number of different sequences, primarily the inability to charge taxes on which to charge the budget of local self-government and cities, up to illegal construction. For the even development of all cities and municipalities, one of the conditions is certainly a plan base, since large investors, and especially foreign ones, opt for locations where the planning documentation is brought and where they can obtain a building permit. Such a development budget as ours has been created is all the preconditions for the even development of our country, and I think it is very important that certain cities and municipalities accept responsibility and work more up-to-date on drawing up these planning documents. Accordingly, those cities and municipalities that have not done so have 24 months from the date of entry into force of this law to create conditions for investment. I come from the municipality of Old Paz, which I feel free to say is one of the most developed municipalities in our country. According to its geographical position, it is between two major cities, between Novi Sad and Belgrade, as well as between two Belgrade-Novi Sad and Belgrade-Zagreb highways. On this occasion I can also point out that the Municipality of Stara Paz has all the necessary planning documentation, starting with the Space Plan of the Municipality of Stara Paz, which is certainly a roof plan document, up to the plans of general regulation for each settlement, which regulates the planning of every settlement in our municipality, up to the plans of detailed regulation in our place. Also, on this occasion, I would like to point out that we have gone one step further, to listen to the needs of investors, to correct the planning documents in order to improve and develop our municipality. As a confirmation of the above, the fact that in our municipality, namely the Municipality of Stara Paz, eight industrial zones have been formed, five of which are fully infrastructured and communally equipped, which certainly makes us very attractive for investment. I would also point out that we are planning to build an infrastructure corridor in the coming years. We are currently in the construction phase of the detailed regulation plan of the infrastructure corridor. The importance of building this infrastructure corridor is that two Belgrade-Novi Sad and Belgrade-Zagreb highways will be connected through the populated towns of Banovci, Nova Paz, Vojka and Krnjesevci, as well as the integration of industrial zones within our municipality. The goal is certainly to develop an economy, faster, more efficient, cheaper flow of goods and improve the standard of living of our citizens. According to the APR 2020 data, 1,140 companies and 3,060 entrepreneurs operate in our territory. According to the National Employment Service, there were about 4,500 unemployed persons at the Bureau during 2012. Today, with the 2020 report, according to the National Employment Service, there are all 1,450 people on the Bureau, which is 4%, which is above the republic's minimum. Of course, this data will be reduced further in the future because of new investments affecting the development of the municipality, but also because of the fact that both internal and foreign policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic provides the security and economic stability of our country, which also contributes to the growing inflow of foreign direct investment into our country. It is precisely because of such a state-run approach that a large and significant German company MTU has decided to invest in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and has chosen the Municipality of Stara Paz for its location. The project is of exceptional national importance confirmed by the conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Stara Pazova is a municipality with a long tradition of private business, while only the settlement Nova Pazova in which this facility is built is the second largest settlement in Stara Pazova and is the beginner of the private business at the time of the former SFRY. The construction of this very important facility was planned in several stages. It's also important to say that she started in March this year. In the first phase, we expect 500 people to be employed, up to full capacity, when the production plant is expected to be opened in 2022, where about 2,000 citizens will be employed. The construction of this company will practically eradicate unemployment in our municipality and open up the possibility of employment and residents gravitating towards Old Paz. It is also important this opportunity to note that last month a Memorandum of Cooperation was signed between the MTU, the Ministry of Education and the Municipality of Stara Paz, which will contribute to further development of educational profiles, especially dual education at the Technical School in Stara Pazova. This will practically mean that the next generation of students leaving this school will be trained to work in this large company. Since coming to the power of the SNS, we have witnessed that over the past years a lot of resources have been allocated to infrastructure in all areas and let this trend continue through capital investments. It is certainly important to continue the construction of road and railway infrastructure, of which I will now single out only a few of these. Continuing the construction of the Preljina-Požega highway, the construction of the Freeway section of Pojate-Prejline so-called. Moravia Corridor, continuing construction of Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, fast traffic station Novi Sad-Ruma-Shabac-Loznica so-called. The French corridor, whose importance is connecting important administrative and regional centres, is a special link between Serbia and BiH, Croatia and Romania. The construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor has been recognised as a project of special importance for the Republic of Serbia. Also, building a bridge bypass around Novi Sad with access traffic. The importance of building this bridge is seen in the possibility that the largest number of vehicles from the north using the T75 highway directly include in the Frushkogorje corridor, i.e. the merger with other directions where only the New Sad core is significantly traffic-discharged. It is also very important in the area of railway infrastructure to mention the construction of the Belgrade-Stara Pazova railway, Stara Pazova-Novi Sad, Novi Sad-Sabotica. The construction and reconstruction of this railway has an exceptional strategic significance in our country since it is part of the basic transversal of the Republic of Serbia and directly connects three of the largest five cities in our country. It is precisely because of the importance of the investment previously put forward for the further development of our country, and the development of our country in the voting day that I will support it in front of the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, a proposal for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6743	Thank you. The next is MP Ivan Fishman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6744	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I would first of all thank and express great respect for the president of the Czech Republic, Mr Milos Zeman, who sent an apology to the Serbian people for criminally illegal aggression at the time of the SRJ, in which a large number of innocent people were killed and the infrastructure of a peaceful people was destroyed, a people who were sided with the power of the winners. To get back to the agenda. The security of Serbian citizens has no price, respected MPs, as there is no price or investment in it. As someone who's worked for many years in the customs administration's security sector, I've long realized that the security system is like the immune system of the organism. When the immune system breaks down, the work of the organs and the health begins to suffer, so does the state authorities. Unlike this government, not all shared the same opinion, the same vision, and the same attitudes. From 2000 to 2012, the government in Serbia was unprecedentedly destroying our weapons, destroying our technique, leaving barracks and other facilities, and not only put security forces on the verge of existence and social margin, but also directly endangering life because they were flying at the time with bad planes, old and broken weapons. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security forces, which we are talking about today, is in the function of improving the living conditions of members of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, the BIA members and the Criminal Sanctions Administration, and this project is not only further improving the project from a national interest through which Serbians will be able to buy cheap apartments at 500 euros per square metre, which you will have to recognise very favourablely. I will also remind you that in order to improve the success of the lives of members of our security forces, the average salary in 2019 in the army was raised to about 70,000 dinars in the police force to 79,000 dinars. Since the beginning of the year, soldiers and pay officers have been increased by five percent, and a 10% increase has been promised and will be met by the end of the year. I should also point out that even though we have provided BIA with the most modern working conditions, we are trying very quickly to make the average wage of about 100,000 dinars to them. What no one can dispute is the results we have achieved over the past few years when it comes to improving the Serbian security sector, Serbia is respected citizens in 2019 and has officially become the state with the largest military investment in the region, with military spending worth $1.14 billion, which is 43% higher than it was in 2018. So, for the sake of example, we have outrun our neighbours from Croatia who have long preceded us in this area, although they have almost twice as many inhabitants. Thanks to a successful economic policy, we have made a good basis for strengthening infrastructure in the security sector. Among other things from France, we got five helicopters and 18 Mistral systems with 50 rockets, from Russia's anti-aircraft system Pancir S1 and six moments, and from China an anti-aircraft missile system that's about a hundred kilometers away. Unlike the opposition forces that once dipped tanks and abolished the regular service of the military, which today the BIA and police call criminals, attack them as Dragan Gilas did when he attacked a member of the police, promising him that when he comes to power, for those our officers and soldiers call traitors, we are guided by the thought of the great military strategist Napoleon Bonaparte who said - a people who will not feed their army, will feed someone else when the time comes. Serbia today, dear citizens want peace and stability so it can continue with the start of economic and infrastructure reforms, and strengthening our security sector is in place not to intimidate or threaten others, but only to defend itself. With declared military neutrality and wise partnership military co-operation with both the East and the West, of course, with the great potential of our human potential in the security sector, I hope that we will achieve all our objectives very quickly. There is something else I would like to say as far as this topic is concerned, but these days I have found very important, the Serbian people who are among the most suffering nations in the 20th century and who have been repeatedly genocided, are today being grossly and extremely baselessly accused of genocide and other crimes against the surrounding peoples. Years back from the victims, they're making executions and vice versa. The Prime Minister's most recent statement. The republic of Kosovo, Mr. Albin Kurti, on the establishment of a Serbian crime institute, is only one in a number of such attempts. It is not known to me that anywhere in the world is founded by an institution in its name or branded by an entire people, as it is in this case. Imagine if the Jews had formed an institute dealing with crimes that the Nazis had committed against them and accused the entire German people of that name, what it would look like. On the other hand, something like that towards Serbs who were killed and banished to hundreds of thousands in their spiritual cradle in Kosovo and Metohija, apparently allowed. Such institutional attempts by historical auditism when it comes to the Albanian factor in the Balkans are not unknown, Bulgaria's historian, Teodora Tolev, who spoke about the actions of the Austrian Foreign Ministry, which worked to describe and create the national awareness of Albanians, wrote on it. Also today, with the help of foreign individual power centres, Albanians in Cosmet want to present Gracanica, Decana or Bogorodica Ljelješko, as their cultural heritage, and places that bear names, such as the Serbian or Obilic, want to play as places where Serbs have never lived and where Serbs have come as occupiers. I am convinced that today's partners and great allies in two world wars, such as the United States, will see sooner or later what has been going on in Kosovo and Metohija's space for the past decades. The people, who gave America a gift to Nikola Tesla, who gave America a Pupin, will surely sooner or later get the right place in the hearts of her citizens and the politics of her administration, who will finally start to watch things straight, to call things the right name, as the respected Mr. Zeman did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6745	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Vesna Krishanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6746	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, amend the Law on Planning and Construction, whose proposals are on the agenda today, are necessary to address the problems that have arisen in practice when applying it. These amendments include extending the time limit for obtaining the applicable permit for buildings, i.e. works whose construction is approved by building permit solutions or building approval solutions, which will lead to a significant number of investors being able to comply with the legal deadlines. The amendment was also planned to regulate the period of validity of the planning documents brought before 1 January 1993 and the extension of the deadline of the competent authorities for the adoption of new planning documents. When we talk about planning and building, citizens of the Municipality of Novi Knezevic, from which I come, have been dreaming for decades about building a sports hall. Citizens of the Municipality of Novi Knezevic are favored to play sports from the youngest to the oldest, and according to this, various sports disciplines are represented in our municipality from football, tennis, table tennis, basketball, handballs, to cocoa, athletics and judo within 19 sports associations and clubs. During the winter period, children were primarily prevented from playing sports because of the lack of adequate training space. Since Novi Knezevic has a significant tourist potential because, among other things, it lies on the left bank of the Tisa River, with a beautiful park of about 10 hectares, which is protected by the state, within which there are monuments of culture and which is characterized by a wide variety of dendro flora, the sports hall would contribute to the development of the same, by visiting a large number of athletes through the organisation of professional or recreational competitions and sports preparations. We have a project designed to build a sports hall designed to meet conditions for disabled athletes, with all necessary permits provided. And this time I appeal on behalf of all citizens of the Municipality of Novi Knezevic to Minister Momirović, as well as Minister Udovic, to help us find the funds and achieve the decades-old dream of all of us. Otherwise, we have already had the honour of being visited by the Minister of Sports and Youth, Mr. Vanja Udovicic, who, at the time, promised funds for the replacement, ran out of fences at the football stadium, and this promise was within a very short period of time and fulfilled and thank him for it. Also, no minor honor will be given to us by the visit of the Minister Tomislav Momirovic. I also have to mention when it comes to the municipality of the New Prince. Thanks to SNS, local self-government has exceeded the period during which it was in multimillion-dollar debt. Now he's on healthy and stable financial feet. On the territory of the entire municipality were reconstructed and built sports grounds, schools and kindergartens were renovated, a water network was replaced in certain parts of the settlement, sidewalks were arranged in the center of the settlement and many other things. Because of all the above, I don't understand those people who daily tirelessly call President Alexander Vukic names, which, in fact, only speaks of their shallowness that doesn't allow them to see things right, to be realistic and objective, and to see what that man has done for our country. No one escapes from the fact that perfection does not exist, and that whoever is doing it and the mistakes are right there to learn from them, but no one can dispute that the SNS, headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, has placed Serbia on firm feet with a constant trend of progress and modernisation. Among other things, these include the announced production of two types of vaccines against Kovid 19, in our country and, as President Vukic said in his visit to TV First – the possibility and possible production of third-type vaccines, for which Americans showed interest. Honestly, I believe in the responsibility and security of our citizens to reach the number of about 2,800,000 vaccines as soon as possible, so that in that case we can finally move on with our normal lives. I think we should all be grateful that we have such a president as Alexander Vukic, who, with his courage, sacrifice, day-to-night work, wisdom, ability, managed to raise Serbia from the ashes, to strengthen it both economically and militaryly. He did not succumb to pressure or, unlike others, who were in power before the SNS, whose personal interests and personal pockets were more important than the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who and how they were willing to give Serbia, without giving their head at all, and who blindly followed orders from those who wanted to see Serbia devastated, weakened in every sense, Serbia at the edge of the collapse, President Aleksandar Vucic, succeeded in having the best results in Serbia's history today, based on which 55 billion euros, GDP at the end of the year, and that the average salary in December 2021 is 600 euros. President Vukic thinks equally of improving the standard of living of all citizens of Serbia, in all parts of the country, and with this in connection, although it currently seems that the northern Banat has been neglected, and in particular the municipality of Novi Knezevic, I am sure that President Vukic has a plan and a vision for recovery and this part of the country, that he certainly has not forgotten us and that hopefully will make us worthy of his visits in some recent time. The newlyweds, as well as the locals of all villages belonging to the municipality of Novi Knezevec, deserve to experience rebirth after the past 20 years, during which numerous factories have been closed, partly thanks to the famous privatisations, partly for some other reasons, by opening up some production plant, which will guarantee the rest of the people in our municipality and developing and strengthening it. Long live Serbia, in its full composition, headed by President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6747	Thank you. The next is MP Tomislav Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6748	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, national security policy is part of the common state policy, only a safe country can have all the preconditions for economic, social and political and cultural and overall development. By taking responsibility in 2012 for the fate of the state and the people, the SNS has just delegated Alexander Vukic, as defence minister, in order to improve the work of this ministry through its work, energy and knowledge, thereby affecting the country's security level. Since 2012, the state of Serbia has invested significant resources in equipping our military and our police, and this is done in continuity. New weapons and tools are purchased, invested in the education of all people, who are part of the security system. It seems that the position of members of the security sector, the internal sector, seems to be greatly improved. As the state has been growing economically, so have the funds invested in this sector increased year by year. In 2018, one step further. The state passed a special law governing the construction of apartments of all those members of security, which failed to resolve their material status, i.e. they did not resolve their housing issue, which primarily refers to the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the BIA and the Ministry of Justice, which is part of the Department of Criminal Sanctions. This law applies, both to those people who are active in this part of the system and to their families and former members of this system. In this way, the state of Serbia shows how much it cares about these people and how much it tries to take care of every man. The first phase builds nearly 7,000 apartments, 6,943 apartments in Vranje, Nis, Vranja, Kralje, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Belgrade. In the city where I come from, in Sremska Mitrovica, the state is building 194 apartments. So 194 families from my town will be this way solved residentially. These institutions are very important, not only because they are large employers in one city, but when you have such institutions in the city, such as the military, such as the police, such as the KPP, they also make citizens feel much safer in these cities. We in Sremska Mitrovica, on Sunday of May 16th, marked the seventh year of the flood, when she inundated Sava with both Sremska Mitrovica and Mačvanska Mitrovica and other settlements in our city, and through one event we remembered those days, when we defended and defended our city. Thanks to a large number of citizens who have come to Sremska Mitrovica but also members of the security service, such as the military, such as the police and other services, we have managed to save the city and our citizens from major floods that would indeed cause great damage and endanger the lives of our fellow citizens. I am taking the opportunity to thank, on behalf of all Mitrovicans, all the people present, especially the security forces, the military, the MUP and other state bodies who have been selflessly in Sremska Mitrovica for days and contributed. Has the state always had a good relationship with people who were part of the defense system? I will remind you, dear friends, in 2000 when a coalition, DOS coalition, came to power, which did not take care of the interests of citizens, which destroyed the economy but in one special way, at the request or instruction of some others on the side, destroyed our army and our police. Not only did they not invest significant funds in weapons and equipment, but they destroyed the same equipment and weapons, and then they melted them, disabled them. The army didn't have any functional planes. Can you imagine how it worked on the morale of all members of the Serbian Army or the police, when you don't have the equipment, when you don't have the weapons? Those people who defended this country have been handed over to The Hague and have been left without the support of the country for which they fought. As low as one regime can fall, perhaps the best example shows the arrest of Colonel Veselin Sljivancanin on June 13, 2003. Maybe for most of you this date doesn't mean anything, but it was Mr. Sljivančan's 50th birthday. Imagine that power, the ossion, the bogeyman who comes to the 50th birthday of a Serbian officer, a brave man, and arrests him, breaking into his apartment, harassing him and his family. What did they want to do with that spell? To humiliate Mr. Sljivancan, to humiliate the Republic of Serbia, all of our citizens. Of course they failed in their venture. They failed to humiliate him, neither him nor the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Among the first to raise their voice against this act were Alexander Vukic and his brother, Alexander Vulin and other patriots who were at that location that day. They are the same people who today are the biggest and most fierce target of those who today represent the opposition in Serbia and who would like to return to power and continue where they left off in 2012, with robbery and destruction. Today, Serbia is driven by responsible people, people who take care of every citizen, especially people who are part of our defence system, and therefore through this legal solution we want to further improve their material, social and economic status. As regards the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, the proposed changes and additions relate, above all, to the introduction of the necessary documentation that is necessary for this type of traffic to continue to develop, to work and to register ship's registers and logbooks. The law is further improved through a legal framework that regulates the port sector and creates an opportunity for public-private partnerships and concessions to be invested in ports on the territory of our country in those places and in those cities where it is not foreseen by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. As economic activity is increasing in the Republic of Serbia, domestic water traffic is also increasing, the total volume of transport and storage of goods and services and things is increasing. In Serbia's budget, significant funds have been planned to expand existing ports, as well as to build new ports in our country's space. Only for Luka Smederevo 4,49 billion dinars, for Luka Belgrade, the new Luka in Belgrade, 108 million dinars, and for Luka Sremska Mitrovica 2.15 billion dinars, construction of an oil terminal, a crumbling terminal, expansion of the container terminal. This will mean a lot for the town on the Sava because Sremska Mitrovica is the economic, economic and cultural center of the region of Srema, in this way it will become an even more important traffic hub in our part of the country, because it relies on both the Srem and the Sword. A large number of people in private business, as well as those in agricultural production, will be able to use Luke Sremska Mitrovica's services. Dear friends, I will remind you that in 2011, close to 40 containers were stored and transported in Serbia, and at the end of 2020 this figure comes to 100,000. This clearly shows that there is increased economic activity in our country's space, but that the overall purchasing power of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia has been increased. When I talk about building a "Belgrade Metro" should point out that this idea was created in the 1950s and today, for the first time the city of Belgrade has done all the necessary analyses and studies that are important for the implementation of this strategic project. This project is not only important for the city of Belgrade, it is important for the rest of our country as well. According to the 2011 census, there are just over 1,700,000 people living in the 17 municipalities of Belgrade. Belgrade extends to 3.6% of Serbia's total territory. It accounts for almost 16% of the total number of people living in our country, and more than 30% of the total people employed in our country's territory are currently working in the city of Belgrade. Belgrade has a very high importance as far as traffic is concerned. He's a major traffic hub in road, rail traffic. He's an international river and airport. There's only one highway heading east-west. He doesn't have any fast traffic heading north-South. The existing posts are insufficient, have little permeable power. Public transport is based on the transport of the City Transport Company that has its own buses, trolley buses, trams, city railways, and when we add to this figure vehicles "Laste", buses "Laste" more than 1,200 vehicles on a daily basis are not enough to meet the needs of all people living in our capital, but also those who come to Belgrade to finish certain jobs. Today we are witnessing all of us who are here in Belgrade, who are coming to work in Belgrade, major traffic jams, and that is what further affects the quality of life of all the people in our capital. The construction of two subway lines will reduce traffic in the city, thereby increasing the flow of passengers of goods and services, as it is primarily the safest, most efficient and most reliable form of traffic. This project will further affect the environment, as far as the city of Belgrade itself and the whole environment is concerned, as the total number of trolleybuses, buses, especially cars here in the capital and therefore, is expected to decrease, we believe that building the "Belgrade Metro" will further affect Belgrade's economic development and increase the quality of life of all citizens of our capital. This would not have been the case if we had not implemented the reforms, it would not have been for President Vukic to rule, all the ministers, and also for MPs to make their contribution in order to create the best possible conditions through these legal solutions, in order to create conditions for decent citizens of the XXI century. In the day to vote, together with colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party, from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support these bill proposals and I believe that in the time ahead they will be realised very quickly and give their quality in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6749	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Sandra Jokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6750	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us a set of laws that are important to Serbia and its citizens. In my presentation today, I will pay special attention to the security forces. The draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment project for members of the security forces is on the agenda. We are witnessing investments in an army that was devastated and almost destroyed by an irresponsible policy of the previous government. The structures of employees in these services are very important for our country because they are important for the preservation of peace and stability. The state is working and helping the security forces, so that they as professionals can do their job effectively, focus on it and not think about solving life problems like a housing issue. That's why the state is conducting an apartment-building project for members of the Security Force. It's not just apartments, it's entire settlements that are being built where their children will be able to go to kindergarten, school, health clinics, as well as built infrastructure. Such apartments are built in Novi Sad, Sremska Mitrovica, Kragujevac, Nis, Vranja, Kralje, the town where I come from, 947 apartments for security forces will be built in the village of Ribnica, situated in three residential blocks with a total of 10 residential units. Within the first A phase of the project, two residential buildings were built, with a total of 200 apartments. The first move is expected in a month. As I've already mentioned, these are entire settlements. In the King is expected to build a kindergarten. This will not only mean members of the security forces and their children, but children on the waiting list, because we know that the demand for state kindergartens is high because of a lower economic price compared to individual kindergartens. The priority for buying an apartment, in accordance with the provisions of this law, is persons who do not have a permanent solution to the living need. The apartments are intended for Serbia's military, the police administration, the gendarmes, the BIA, the County Prison, the wartime and military disabled and the justice ministry. The square of the apartment will cost 400 euros, so with a payment of 30 years for a 56m square month war apartment would be 82 euros. The number for buying apartments in the King is increasing. For a 60m-square apartment, it is necessary to allocate 24,000 euros, which is twice the price of similar properties on the free market. A favourable loan was also made available at the domestic bank at an interest rate of only 2% on an annual basis. Realisation of the project is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia, and for the city of Kraljevo this is of paramount importance, for young people and couples to stay and live in their city, and the problem of housing will encourage and give birth to a larger number of children, which is a priority, a higher birth rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6751	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. He's not here. The word has a National MP, Milica Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6752	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, up to ten years ago on the subway was used exclusively for politics, for empty demagogy and for collecting political points. Today is not the case anymore. Today we came to the moment when building a subway in our capital becomes a reality. It's just one of the starting evidence of that is the law I'm discussing here today. It's a metro and city rail law. On the one hand, this bill will allow the project to be realised faster and easier, hence, from the land supply process to the issue of necessary permits and the acceleration of public procurement procedures necessary for the implementation of this project. Therefore, the adoption of this law will create all necessary conditions for the start of the construction of the subway. The decades-old dream of all Serbian citizens, and above all citizens living in Belgrade, will begin to come true in November, for when the construction of the subway is scheduled. By 2030, we won't stop working, and then it is predicted that our capital has built 41 kilometers of subways with 42 stations and two lines that will cover most of the city. Building a subway isn't just a way to reduce traffic jam, it's, first of all, prestige and the power of a city and a state. Together with the construction of the metros, we will also go to the expansion and modernisation of the BG train, which will further reduce traffic jams on the one hand, on the other hand, will facilitate the link between all suburban Belgrade municipalities. It will also contribute to the even development of these suburban Belgrade municipalities. Our goal and what we seek is to keep all public traffic in our capital electric or hybrid by 2030, therefore, to meet all environmental standards. I will only remind you that the works are under way and on the fast track of Belgrade - Stara Pazova - Novi Sad, that trains will be on that track at a speed of 200km per hour and that will allow Belgrade to reach Novi Sad in less than 30 minutes. This railroad will continue, so the construction of this railway will continue further north, towards Subotica and Budapest. What is important to note is that neither the southern part of Belgrade will be neglected either. For the next period, the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Nish railway is envisaged, as well as the construction of project-technical documentation for the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar railway. So, all these projects are just another proof that President Alexander Vukic's policy and politics are also SNS' policy of progress and a safe future for all our citizens. The process of stabilising financial opportunities, which began with the change of government in 2012, today enables us to go into the realisation of projects that have waited decades for them to come to their turn. On-call critics often know that we are paying attention to the loans our country is taking today, but what they forget is that unlike the times when they were in power, we are borrowing money at never lower rates and exclusively for building and investing in infrastructure, not for paying salaries and pensions, as they did. Infrastructure is very important and it's synonym for the 21st century. It is unfortunate that for decades some citizens have waited for highways and new investments to arrive with them, with new jobs investing, waiting for decades to start investing in railway infrastructure, as well as investment in public transport in our capital. Today, even though we are affected by all the consequences this pandemic of the coronary virus carries with it, we have not given up any important infrastructure project that we have promised citizens in the previous period. Today, when you run a responsible and home policy, there is room for everything, for investment in infrastructure and for investment in health and for investments in digitisation and for increasing wages and pensions, therefore, for all that represents progress and improving the lives of our citizens. Many of us did not believe that from one mockery and one of the dirt that was here in downtown Belgrade we would be able to build a beautiful settlement, a beautiful center, perhaps one of the most beautiful in Southeast Europe. That's why I know you'll hear from some political critics for sure and now that from this capital and important project, from building the subway, there will be nothing. But, dear citizens, be sure that our country, our president, our government will not give up the realization of this project and will keep the given word. The aim of the current government, led by President Alexander Vukic, is to spend every penny earned exclusively on achieving one goal, which is to create a better future for our country, creating a better future for our citizens. For that we will fight forever and no matter what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6753	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6754	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow Members of Parliament, respected Serbian citizens, respected ministers with associates, faces us today with a set of very important draft laws, and I would personally refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Special Conditions Act for the Implementation of the Project "Building Apartments for Security Forces Members". Security forces are doing an extremely important job, which is viewed, above all, in preserving security, in defending sovereignty, in preserving independence and the territorial integrity of the state. These are the people who are the misery of this country, the people who are fighting for this country, the people who have dedicated their lives to their country. Being a member of the security force of any security structure and organization is more than a job, it's a life call, it's a life mission. The importance of security forces is enormous, both in peace and in emergency and, of course, in the most difficult, therefore, state of war. In the hardest of times, members of the security structures were there for us. They have been through history, are and will be a factor in stability, preserving peace and a clear warning to all who would dare attack Serbia. The place they respect in Serbian society has a long tradition, characterized by many of the troubles our country has gone through in its history. The reasons for this state of affairs lie, above all, in the specific geopolitical, cultural and religious configuration of this climate, which was inevitably a prerequisite for formation during much of the history of the affirmative view of the members of these structures. Unfortunately, among the members of these structures are often those who have failed to resolve their housing issue permanently. Since soldiers, police officers and other members of the security structures are the guardians of our country, its integrity, freedom, the defenders of our people, the guardians of the country, the protectors of the interest of the Serbian state, I cannot help but agree with the president of Serbia, who says the state must find money and invest in this sector and improve the standards of its members. Only when they solve their biggest life problem, when they are provided with a roof over their heads, can they care only about what they have dedicated their lives to, and that is the security and security of Serbia and its citizens. Thanks to the responsible state-of-the-art policy of our country, the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces has been adopted and the keys to the first tenants have already been handed over. I sincerely hope that the ministry will meet its goal and that nearly 7,000 apartments for members of the security services will be built by 2022. I'm particularly proud of the fact that right now in Zemun, where I come from and who I represent, is building 1,000 apartments. I think it was high time for the state to do something this concrete and thus show its gratitude to all the members of the security service for everything they do to make us, as citizens of Serbia, feel safe. Also, the project of building apartments for security guards is a signal to others, doctors, teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, professors, firefighters, all who work for the state apparatus and who are fighting for Serbia, that there is a better tomorrow and that the state of Serbia will take care of them. Given the importance of this bill, there is nothing left for me but to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6755	Thank you. The next is MP Viktor Jevtovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6756	Thank you. Dear chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk about the law on building subways and city railways. The Belgrade Metro has been spoken of for more than 70 years. Former Mayor Branko Pesic had a vision of the subway. He believed that building a subway would expand the walking zone in the center. The oldest metro is usually London's, which opened back in 1863, or November 4th. Our goal is a subway that can provide high speeds, frequency, lower environmental pollution, traffic avoidance, as well as high transport capacity, which is crucial for Belgrade and its infrastructure. An idea or better to say a dream that has been promised to the citizens of Belgrade for decades finally, thanks to the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, is going into realisation. The construction of Belgrade Metro is one of the most complex infrastructure projects that would be a high capacity and fully independent rail system, and thus the basis for public transport in Belgrade. Realising such an important project for the Republic of Serbia and the city of Belgrade would also contribute to reducing urban traffic congestion. Also, this type of transport represents one of the most dangerous and efficient types of traffic and, especially, leads to the rapid development of parts of the city with the potential to build large numbers of housing units and new business zones. This kind of project raises Belgrade to a high level between the metropolis and the capitals of Central-Eastern and Southeast Europe. The planned start of realization is by the end of 2021. The project provided funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and guarantees for loans for which bank negotiations are under way to secure as favourable conditions as possible to speed up project implementation and less payment of bank fees, with value estimated at around six billion euros on the whole project. I am particularly pleased to say that the first metro line is of epochal importance for new investments in our country. It starts with construction on Makish, heading towards Adi Huja, which will be connected by the railway line and Mirievo. We are seeking that Belgrade's metro ranks the world's most modern. The fact that I'm as a resident of Chukarica is proud of something that was our dream. Unfortunately, sometimes only part of the former regime's imagination, which has since 2003 buried its cover with false promises, and in fact filled its bank accounts, only Dragan Gilas has promised the subway at least three times and lied every time. The first line is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2028 and the deadline of the entire project in 2033. In order to speed up the start of the construction of the subway, this law needs to be passed, in order to allow for a faster, simpler implementation of the project. What is very important to stress is that the project itself does not endanger the environment. And who's he threatening? tycoons that remind of their incompetence, thieving, lying. The project is a balvana in the eye of Dragan Gilas and his tycoon yellow company, which in 2008 promised to build a subway, so without a tender, it signed an agreement with the French company "Ežis" which is now under attack. He's pissed off today because the defacto can't be installed into that job and that's how he pumps into his 619 million-dollar canon. Instead, he left 1.2 billion euros in debt to the citizens of Belgrade, destroyed public enterprises, pledged to build "Beograda on water", and left Belgrade in the mud of debt. In the gaping impatience, he constantly tries to degrade any success and progress of Serbia, which, through the wise policies of Aleksandr Vukic, is going ultimatically forward in all fields, even at the time of the pandemic. Unpowerful, as well as its mediocrity, all of them up to one insecure in front of the direction which President Vukic leads Serbia, which is well known. This is the direction of fighting for the health of citizens, infrastructure, investment, jobs, further increases in wages and pensions, the construction of hospitals. That direction is unknown to them, because in their greed they strayed in the direction of Mauritius, Hong Kong, private companies, expensive whiskey and tompus. They left the people on the verge of hopelessness at their account stations and placed themselves on the list of the richest mobsters in Europe. They emptied the state register. They still dream of their thief's locomotive to return to, but they made a mistake, because the train that Serbia is going to today, which is being run by Aleksandar Vukic, is going unstoppingly forward. As a sovereign state, consistent with the European path, with good multilateral relations and courage to stand in the way of mafia and thieving in all segments of society, our country has changed, not thieves anymore, but a leader whose first place is Serbia at the cost of life. They were remembered by the people, so they show their courage only on social networks or through their tycoon media. As speakers of the mafia and the brutal clans, threatening children and the family of the man who raised Serbia from the ashes, from their rot, and therefore they would be better off silent when they are not allowed to see the people. Let the hickeys lead against the better than themselves. It won't stop the subway, like the vaccines didn't. They won't stop Alexander Wolfie either. It won't stop Serbia either. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6757	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the minister, the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 5 to 10 of the agenda. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – The list of members of the MEP OF THE REGULAR BODY FOR ELECTRONIC MEDIA Please, MP groups, unless they have already done so to immediately submit applications for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on the list of candidates for the Board of Regulators' Body for Electronic Media submitted by the Committee for Culture and Information. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6758	Thank you, Your Honor. The Regulatory Body for Electronic Media is one of the important factors of the media framework and of all possible segments that are guided by this society in terms of how it is designed by definition, in terms of the powers it has and the need of our society to have one body that will succeed in introducing, in the manner defined by the laws, a certain type of mandatory criteria to which the media must apply in accordance with our citizens, or to its consumers. This body should have the role that the law provides for it and all other acts in its existence. We talked on several occasions about REM and other independent bodies that must really, to the end, be independent and point to certain gaps that are visible and that actually have far-reaching consequences for our society. Therefore, the choice of any member of this body is important and should be reminded, it is necessary to refresh and point to whatever is necessary to change in order for this body to really play that role which is prescribed by law and which, as such, should or may be done in our society. This body should first of all, and unfortunately, it is not always the case, take care of the content that is placed through electronic media with national frequency, with regional frequencies, with local frequencies, especially those that are in the greatest conflict with ethical and moral values. It is unimaginable, therefore, that we have very often mild REM reactions to those content that are placed through certain media with a national frequency, which crosses all limits of normality, morality, and as regards that part of these various kinds of shows, various kinds of content that lasts for months on these media and that very often show even some scenes that are not suitable for viewers under 18 years. It would be very important for REM to finally begin to exercise the powers conferred upon it by the laws, and which we, as MPs, by voting all members of REM, are giving it the opportunity to simply protect all the consumers of media content in our country. Unfortunately, we have not witnessed that REM has always reacted as it would have had to, and we are very often witnessing that such content in continuity undermines the moral credibility of our entire society, and in particular it has a negative impact on those values that are based on family education, education, and education. On the other hand, REM must also be free of political influences. It must be free of people who will, in any way, prevent certain irregularities in the work of the media that cross any legal frameworks in brutal dealings with non-experienced people. This is valid, both for the national frequency media and for those media with regional and local frequencies. Since I spent years working on the media and being part of the press world, I personally experienced certain moments that had to be sanctioned by REM in relation to those who committed such events. However, this has never happened in practice. I will list several specific cases when it comes to the region from which I come, the region of Sandzak, and when it comes to the relationship of the media to those people who dared to include the truthfulness of the transfer of information, even if it was not in line with what local powers, political powers, economic powers, tycoons, etc. Unfortunately, media sector employees, because of this part of investigative journalism, which was not always in the will of political powers, were on various types of blows, and even brutal accounts through the media that paid, funded and became owners of just the politicians who had that power to stegmatize anyone who wanted to truly fight for the truth, for the truth of the information and point to all those deviations that rooted in our societies. First of all to corruption, to crime, to what is the cancer wound of every community. So we had, let's say, cases that in 2015, 2016, on regional television, then the Radiotelevision of Novi Pazar, which was owned by a political party in power for 10 years, former Minister Rasim Ljajic's party, brutally stagmatised, and also listened to journalists and in their informative shows published in continuity, months and kept it on their site, tapped footage, mounted footage, footage that threatened the safety of people who were trying to endure their tasks in business and above all challenge journalists to carry out some kind of investigative journalism by the end. Even in 2018, there was brutally untrue on that television about a case by the director of Sandzak TV. I am not going to mention names here, of course, because it might suggest those who did it again and when they complained to REM, the REM professional service found that it had been wronged, that the law had actually been broken and that it was necessary to punish the Radiotelevision of Novi Pazar for it. Even public listening was held in his presence, etc., where it was headed for such a conclusion. However, the final solution was to reject this request, which means that political pressure has been made on REM members to have one brutal abuse, violation of rights, journalistic rights, people who have done their job, who have therefore been thrown out by public lynching, spinning, creating untrues, planting false information, and that this kind of attack does not get what it was meant to be and not actually sanctioned by the one who led to such a case. So political pressure has been made. It was at a time when the minister who owed telecommunications was from that political party that owned the television and which, for that reason, gave himself the right to stegmatize anyone who did not agree with the policy of the then Minister of Telecommunications, which was valid for the majority minister from Sandzak. This is not harmless, for the reason REM's inaction on these issues has very often encouraged people to continue their brutal objections to personal integrity, to the business integrity of journalists, so I have here a text that says that it is just in continuity, precisely because of the non-response of REM, many times journalists have been cast out by attacks by local powers. For example, in 2008, a journalist on the "Ref Ref" radio was attacked by municipal officials at the time of SO Novi Pazar. In 2011, the then editor, Revija Sandzak, was attacked by people from a criminal mile close to that time by local authorities. In 2012, a news crew was physically kicked out of the stadium while a football game was recorded at the New Pazar Football Club, although it was previously announced neatly and despite everything, it was thrown out, and the journalists were verbally attacked. In 2014, a journalist named "Glass Islam" was attacked when he had three teeth and a broken jaw. In 2014, the Sandzak TV team was attacked by the head of the election commission in Tutina on the day of elections for the Bosniak National Council. In 2015, the deputy mayor of Novi Pazar and a member of the city's security team physically and verbally attacked the cameraman and journalist "Sandzak Television" for reporting from the scene about a fire at a family house in Novi Pazar. In 2015, the editor-in-chief of "The Voice of Islam" was threatened with death through social networks by people whose identity has been established. In 2015, President SO Tutin, with the committees, insulted and physically attacked the cameramen and journalists "Sandzak Television". In 2015, the president of the New Pazar City Assembly and the director of the "Dositej Obradović" library in Novi Pazar push the cameramen and journalists "Sandzak TV" to avoid reporting from the City Assembly. In 2016, the “Sandzak Television” team was attacked by employees of the city administration for the purpose of shooting the bridge on the river, etc. In 2017, a cameraman "Sandzak Television" and a whole team by the then official and businessman, a local powermaker who is part of the political establishment of the former Minister of Telecommunications, was attacked in Prijepolje, in broad daylight. In 2018, a journalist "Sandzak Television" was attacked in the Assembly Hall and his phone was stolen by local self-government officials. Furthermore, in 2019, a journalist and cameraman "Sandzak Television" were also attacked by political powers because they were recording a contribution to leaving Sandzak for the diaspora. In 2020, the director of Sandzak Television was attacked physically by a local businessman, a close policy of former telecommunications minister. That same year, the director of Sandzak Television and journalists were attacked by a criminal mile away, also close to former telecommunications minister's policy, and then threatened with a gun. So I cited all these examples that were properly reported to the police, and there were many others who had been silenced, to see the responsibility of inaction with REM in relation to those who allowed and who misused their media power of their television, to stegmatize and to spin and make various false information about their insinuators, thus jeopardising the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and disabling the media that were defined for true, free journalism, to do their job in continuity. It is therefore important that every time we have a point on the agenda about selecting REM members we talk about these things, to warn all of this, to challenge our conscience in all nine people who are most responsible and who are partly responsible for all these attacks because they did not respond when they had to react and because they politically decided on certain situations of attack on media employees and thus encouraged and encouraged them to continue, as you can see. In continuity, these attacks take place, from 2008 until 2020, and so far we have not had a single REM stopped these media close to policies and financed from urban budgets, in competitions that have been very problematic and that have already been discussed with a lot of words, on which trials are being conducted, because they are the owners of these televisions precisely those who sign budgets in a certain period of time or those who are close associates and functioners of local parties that are in power. On the other hand, REM should also keep this in mind, given that all these local media at the monthly level are paying serious fees to REM for permission, based on which they broadcast their programme, which is not even small and which therefore further obliges them to carry out the part of the work professionally, partyly independently, impartially and in relation to facts, on facts, on the truthfulness of what should have been and what should be determined. I was asked by the bearer of certain local media in the Sandzak area to make one request, one criticism of REM members, to consider that these monthly fees are reduced by them, for the reason that local media at the moment are far more vulnerable to other media with national frequency, and that it represents a great burden to pay this fee, which is slightly more than 50,000 dinars per month, and that it is actually one of the moments they are struggling with, to leave all their employees in a working relationship, on the one hand, and on the other hand, in order for them to produce a programme that is of importance, of importance, of all the citizens of the region that they are media coverage. Therefore, REM should consider reducing this monthly fee, which is quite high, at least in this time recovery from the effects caused by the coronary virus to the local media, so that they can safely continue to produce quality media content, of interest to the citizens of their communities and to the part of the population that they cover. We hope that this choice of this REM member will be different and that all this that we have spoken will reach those people who are the most responsible, who need to implement in this independent body those legislative regulations and mechanisms that have been allocated to them as an independent body and allow all journalists, all media workers, to be safe in doing their job and thus we can contribute fully to making our media presentation or the whole media image in the state of Serbia equally quality, in all regions, as is taken into account in quality at national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6759	Thank you. Adjudication to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Bacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6760	I appeal to Article 105, that no one at the session can speak, and Article 106 can also talk about the point of only the agenda on which the search is being conducted. We here very often, when MPs of this parliamentary group appear, we don't usually listen and hear anything that touches the agenda point. Here, today we have had our manners to hear and see how the president of this parliamentary group performs, that he absolutely talks about things that are not related to the agenda. One more thing, to accuse all those other political ones, to say, opponents in the worst way and to put themselves in the context of the worst criminals and to present the practical end from which they come in the dirtiest way. It is another manner and something we have just heard, absolute lies about how this political party works and how they sow fear in Sandzak, and how they are linked to crime, best shown the results of the New Pazar elections where they are a deep opposition, where they have twice as many votes as the party led by Rasim Ljajic. It is sad that the entire political engagement of this party and just the speech of the party's MPs comes down to defilement and pasture of the ugliest labels to their political opponents, above all lies, lies and insinuation in the worst possible way. I ask you, as chairman, that you no longer allow this manner of performance, because it humiliates, above all, this Assembly, but insults first and foremost those citizens who are from Sandzak and who in this way have to listen to the appearances of the people who come from that region.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6761	Thank you, Mr. Butcher. The shortest explanation would be that I have tried to hold the already established standard of freedom of speech when it comes to the appearance of MPs and tolerance for something broader access to the subject and which I have shown even now when you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day? (No) I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6762	Thank you, Chairman. We heard from the previous speaker that he disproved anything from what I decidently said, citing 15 cases that were directly...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6763	Just to ask you to say "member"?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6764	Article 108. ... Therefore, which are directly in the police administrations filed criminal charges and for which there is documentation of the overall events, as I have decadently talked about cases which have been processed in REM and which, to the shame of REM, have not been assessed at the end as the truth requires and how the facts require it. On the other hand, it is very ugly to talk about the MPs of a particular political party based on the untrues, the flossulas that we could hear from the previous speaker when he spoke about crime, mentioning the elections in Novi Pazar, so what kind of crime is that? Is something documented, do we have anything about it, and I have listed here concrete, precise, direct data, and it is also a very dangerous substitute for the thesis when it is intended to honor the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party to speak of their city as those representing another political party feel that they should speak. No, we're trying here to initiate healing processes for certain diseased parts of our society that are in the minority and that actually good majority of our city and our people are holding prisoners, hostages, precisely thanks to their political malversions.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6765	Thank you. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure in this case either. The member you pointed to says we're taking care of the order at the session. I think that's all I've ever done. I see you agree, do you not ask to vote? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6766	I'm referring to Article 109. I have to tell the MP that he was just listening to himself, he might hear that I just said everything he confirms. There's nothing to deny something we say is a lie. The absolute lies we've heard and the lies that are now being defended by some kind of application is what he's put very maliciously in the context of my political option and my political leader. I don't think the citizens who voted for him, or authorized him to lie, are giving false information about his fellow citizens. I think that's what the political option should be about. Nor do I think that the citizens who voted for them voted for them in such an ugly way and in such an ugly manner conveyed some of their discontent and frustration from the field, or from the New Market to this high house. Simply, the citizens of Novi Pazar do not want them in power, and this shows continuously from the elections to the elections. As someone who has been in political life for a very long time, I don't understand why they continue to hold that stance firmly to lie, to belittle, to put into the mouth of something that isn't true to others, to try to elect a political result. It's not good for them or for the citizens who vote for all of us. It's not good for the citizens of New Market, it's not good for New Market to perform like this on their behalf. In the end, it is not good for Serbia either as our common homeland. Please take care of the content of the speech, because the contents of the speech of the MPs coming from that option never match the points of the agenda. Ninety percent of their speech isn't about the agenda point. Please take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6767	Thank you, Mr. Butcher. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, Article 109. So the suggestion on your part is to apply the measure of telling the warning. I don't think any of the conditions for applying these measures are met, at least for the time being. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (No) I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6768	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 102. You've just heard a MP tell another MP that he's lying, that he's false, etc., which means that at that moment he's violated...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6769	Mr. Fehratovic, can you just repeat the article?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6770	Article 102.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6771	Article 102 — closing session?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6772	I'm sorry, Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6773	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6774	It is not good, then, that in this way the MPs honor other peoples for something they have no proof of, speaking of what I supported the fact that it is not true. It speaks of them, as it says about them and many things that have happened in the past, which, of course, they want to forget, and what has cost the citizens of Novi Pazar and the Republic of Serbia a great deal. I can also say that a former MP from this political party has been caught at the international airport stealing perfumes that are at the shame of both the Republic of Serbia and the political party, but it is a fact. So they can say whatever they want, but the facts, the truth, the proven things are something that disproves them and their policy in such a way that it conflicts with the truth and that they deceive the MPs here at the tide and deceive the citizens of Novi Pazar and the Republic of Serbia. We do not need to say something that is not supported by facts and we do not need to bring out anything that comes out of the box, because a lot of things have happened and that comes to the charge done and for what there is evidence and at the end of what certain processes are being conducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6775	I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken either. Article 103 regulates that it cannot be called upon to some extent that has already been stated before, that rule was respected in this debate by all, therefore, by you two MPs, and by me. Are you asking to vote? (No) I thank you for that, too. Now the word has a representative of the promoter, president of the Committee on Culture and Informing Sandra Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6776	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. First of all, thank you for coming back to the agenda point that is important today. Daily political accounts, I would say, should be left above all for some local level, and here we agree on a single policy, the one that should be at the service of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the proposal of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media is concerned, we certainly managed to create a serious continuity in this term and to enable the smooth work of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which is certainly one of the most important when we talk about the arrangement of public space. I will remind only a few facts, and then, in short, for citizens' information, I will repeat only the procedure by which the Assembly Committee on Culture and Information is at all able to propose candidates for REM members, and the National Assembly is, of course, the one who decides on each individual in the voting day. Therefore, the Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media was established by the Law on Electronic Media in 2014. One of the main tasks of the Regulator is to improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services, to preserve and protect the development of freedom of opinion, expression, and to protect public interest in this area, as well as the protection of users of electronic media services. The Board of Regulators shall be composed of nine members, they shall be selected from the ranks of prominent experts from the fields of importance for the performance of the tasks of the Regulators. So, here we are talking about media professionals, then economists, lawyers, engineers, as I would also point out this way that the right to propose candidates for members of the Council have the board of directors of the National Assembly, then the competent committee of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, which we will talk about today, universities accredited in the Republic of Serbia, associations of electronic media publishers, associations of journalists in the Republic of Serbia, associations of film, stage, drama artists, associations of composers, associations whose aims are to achieve freedom of expression, protection of children, national councils of national minorities, as well as churches and religious communities. This is extremely important to note and point out, given that in this legislative provision we can see a wide range of rights that need to be realised and, in fact, what is even more important, the rights that need to be protected as a regulatory body, which depicts, of course, the structure of our society. Although this aspect is disputed by many, the Board of Regulators is, in accordance with the provisions of the law, independent and independent in its work and decision-making and, among other things, very active in its work, showing the fact that it held 36 sessions in 2020. Before moving to explain this item of the agenda, I would like to remind you that the National Assembly elected two members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on 17 December last year, which is precisely in support of the fact that I mentioned it, which is the efficiency and commitment of the National Assembly, the Committee on Culture and Information and Responsibility in respect of legal regulations and deadlines. Since the Board of Regulators makes up nine bodies, after this one we choose tomorrow, in the voting day, it remains unfortunately another place that remains vacant because of the death of one of the members of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, who died as a result of the covid. Therefore, the legal basis for selecting a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media is contained in the provision of Article 8. Law on electronic media, Article 8. The Law on the National Assembly and members of the Council, as I have said, is chosen by the National Assembly, on the proposal of authorised promoters, in this case by the Committee on Culture and Information. Acting on this point, the Committee on Culture and Information, held at the session held on 6 April 2021, took the decision to initiate the procedure for proposing candidates for the selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and, acting on point 5 of this Decision, in accordance with Article 10(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Law on Electronic Media, a public invitation to propose candidates for a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which is elected on a proposal from the competent committee of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, was published on the website of the National Assembly on 6 April. Also, the public invitation was delivered to the committee of the AP Vojvodina Assembly on the same day. On the basis of the call made by the public, this authorised promoter had a 15-day deadline from the date of publication of the Public Call to submit a reasoned proposal to the Committee by two candidates for a member of the Board of Regulators. Let me just point out why I'm reading these legal regulations. Since it is always respected that the National Assembly, by some other media, who have obviously never been able to comply with any basic legislation dealing with the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and are in constant violation, and you know very well who I'm talking about, respect that members of the Board of Regulators do not choose in time. I just want to point out the fact that this procedure, in order to be legally respected completely, is going to last and that every time it's going to have to last this long, as much as anyone likes it or not, because it's the law. In the Republic of Serbia, everyone is obliged to comply with the law, including those who have these kind of objections on a regular basis, which are mostly those who, as you know, broadcast not from the Republic of Serbia, but from Luxembourg and do not pay a tax here and it also seems to me that it is absolutely irrelevant for them to respect any of the rules or laws contained and which, of course, is the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and only to respect and that even these media, of course, without exception put under that kind of control. So, on the basis of this public call, the authorised promoter, as I said, had 15 days from the date of publication of the Public Call to submit a reasoned proposal to the Committee by two candidates. The deadline expired on April 21st. The list of candidates for a member of the Board of Regulators was set out at a session of the Committee held on 27 April, in accordance with Article 10(5) and published on the National Assembly website. At a session held on April 28th, the Committee held a public conversation with candidates for members of the Board of Regulators, held talks with Milorad Vukasinovic and Goran Eror. These were indeed content discussions by the Members of the Committee of People, who were indeed in one way, given that and how they were addressed to work and what the Board of Regulators had in their jurisdiction, asked in what way these two members first saw the work of the Regulatory Body in the future, what was what they would do with their work and effect in that body and what was what they would possibly change. Indeed, after that, we had, I say, one substantive debate. After that, the list of candidates mentioned two has been released into the harvest and you will be able to choose one of the two members in the voting day, on the basis of everything we say today, fairly and objectively. The Board of Regulators, I remind you, currently has a total of seven, of nine members, and I would therefore like to invite the Members of Parliament to take a vote on this item of the agenda and a statement. After all, I would add only one thing, given that I've exceeded time, to conclude my exposure by reminding that we are the product of our world, but we are also its creator. By saying this thought, I underline the importance of ethics and basic moral principles in the field of the media, even in all other aspects of life, because each of us must and is obliged to condemn the immoral political ambitions of those who attack what is most precious to all of us, and these are our children, because children are guarded, children are protected, they are the basis that brings us all together here. Simply, I would also ask this Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media that everything that has happened in the previous few days to the President of the Republic, or his family, attacks directed at his son, Danil Vukic, I ask the Council to respond and that those who were employers, and this is certainly a targeted work that puts the target on the head of the President's son, Danil Vukic, not only condemns, but takes all measures to prevent this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6777	I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information. The word has an authorised representative of the SDPS parliamentary group, Mrs Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6778	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Christmas gave me a great creamworth to begin with. The greatest danger to the freedom of the media, but also to human rights in general, threatens the highest risk from the pausal, ignorant, political and untrue assessments of the work of REM and the media image and SDPS, and this parliamentary group will never allow itself to perform, nor will they allow mistrust in the institutions of the system and in an inadequate way to speak about what is the topic and point of the agenda. We did not wait long after one of the REM members first resigned, and then another REM member unfortunately died that we had a new member on the agenda in this case proposed by the circuit assembly. We have two candidates today to choose one from. They've delivered exhaustive biographies and of course I'm not going to analyze them right now. We see, as Christmas colleague said that they formally meet the conditions to be elected members of the REM Council, as well as so far when choosing who will be elected will be decided by most democratic ones, but whoever the National Assembly today chooses to be a member of REM should also know that the competent Committee on Culture and Information, but all MPs are also monitoring the work and new and old REM members, but the work of this body is being monitored by the public. Under the Law on Electronic Media, REM has extremely high powers. We, the National Assembly, MPs, especially colleagues and colleagues from the Committee on Culture and Information, have an obligation to monitor with due attention the work of regulators and law enforcement. Both of us have been chosen and taken responsibility for the job. Responsibility is therefore important, and as Abraham Lincoln said, you cannot escape tomorrow’s responsibility by avoiding it today. The credibility of REM's work has been followed by numerous controversy almost since its establishment. In public today, there are numerous objections to the work of that body. The electronic media regulator would have talked about it, and I often talked about it in this home, had to take more account and had to communicate more adequately and efficiently with the public and bring the citizens closer to what their responsibilities are and what it is to do to avoid both misunderstandings and manipulations and superficialities about what is REM's jurisdiction, but of course also political abuses. Members of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulators are independent and independent in their work. The Regulatory Body for Electronic Media shall exercise public authority in order to improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services, contribute to the preservation, protection and development of freedom of opinion and expression, and to promote public and public interest. In its work REM does not represent the views or interests of the authorities or organisations that have proposed them but only perform their duty on their own and it is important to know one of the candidates whom we will choose today, anyway, it is also a legal provision. Therefore, REM members, by their own knowledge and conscience, and in accordance with the law and powers, carry out their duties. It is understood that they must not represent anyone and any particular interests individually. No one has the right on the other hand to influence the work of members of the Council in any way, nor are they obliged to respect any instructions relating to their work other than decisions of the competent court. The regulator makes sure that in its programming content respects the dignity of personality and human rights, and is particularly concerned with the lack of humiliating treatment and scenes of violence and torture. These are, therefore, just some of the powers of the REM Council and the Electronic Media Act. It is clear that REM plays a key role in editing the audio-visual space in Serbia. When it comes to media, regulatory body, broadcasting, we'd have to look at a bigger picture. The reality is that we were like a country in decades of wandering and delay in harmonising media laws with European legislation and what the real needs of the public in Serbia are. The reform of the media sphere in Serbia on 2000 has been slow and with a number of problems that have followed both the making of laws and their application. Authorities refused to fully give up formal and informal media control mechanisms. If we go back and look at the reports of other regulatory bodies, we will find them in the reports, one of them is definitely the Verica Baraq report in which everything is accurate and detailed. The work therefore lacked the willingness to regulate the media scene in line with European standards and the public's interest. Legislative and executive authorities were ineffective. The delay in establishing independent regulatory bodies in the area of broadcasting was among other things the lack of political will to seriously regulate the area. The Radio Diffusion Act, which introduced and formed an independent regulatory body in the area of broadcasting, was adopted in 2002. By 2009, the law had been amended four times. The republican broadcasting agency, as it was then called, practically began its work only during 2005 after two more amendments to the law. The lack of proper regulation has also enabled political and financial abuse of media space, but unfortunately the smooth broadcasting of inadequate media content. It was only 2009 that the expert service for analysis and surveillance under the RRA began to work. The work on legislation has often been, therefore, non-transparent and controversial, at the very least, as well as the work of the Radio Diffus Agency. Not to mention the 2009 Information Act when, as a society in the field of information and the media, we went back a few steps and decades and when all the modern, developed world and Europe rose to withdraw and no longer apply in practice, it was such an execution. In 2014, media laws that are in line with EU legislation were finally passed, including the Law on Electronic Media, which is closer to the work of the REM Council. These are dear colleagues facts and facts are hard to dispute. It's an immutable category. I am sure that in the future we will also change regulations because the world around us is changing, in terms of technological development and the emergence of new audio-visual services and media. At this point, we are obliged as a state to respect and consistently apply existing laws and in the best interests of the public. In this sense, editing the media space in Serbia is important both for further strengthening media pluralism and democracy, as well as for the success of the Euro integration itself. We, very quickly, at least according to the media strategy and action plan for its implementation, are waiting for changes and additions to media laws. The media strategy is more than good, excellent, according to the European Commission and the OSCE. It is up to us to bring the laws in line with the Strategy to improve the assessment of media freedom and media image, the European Commission's assessment in a subsequent report on Serbia. Therefore, it is important to note that the media strategy which has received the highest and best grades of experts, not only in the country but also in the EU, is the result of the proactive role of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's Government, of course with the intervention of the OSCE, because it was also an indicator of how it is possible to establish dialogue with relevant associations and associations and to make a good solution and a good text of the media strategy that was followed very quickly by an action plan for its implementation. The media strategy, as we can see, has a chance to reverse things in a positive direction. The new media strategy shows the intention to fix things which is extremely important and good, and therefore it is necessary that we, as a parliament, create mechanisms that would make it possible as soon as possible. Here is just one note that the previous media strategy for the period 2011 to 2016 was adopted at the government's telephone session in 2011, followed by an action plan that had 13 points. A valuable time lost in the first year following the adoption of the media strategy is again partly due to the absence of political will during the culture minister's term, then Prime Minister Predrag Markovic, and partly as a result of the election campaign. After 2012 and by changing the ruling structure, fortunately, these changes did not reflect the strategic definitions of the new government, which through continuity policy adopted by the previous government. Unfortunately, we have again had a great delay in meeting ambitiously imagined deadlines. A significant acceleration and implementation of the action plan followed the appointment of our colleague, Ivan Tasovac, today, as culture minister in 2013. So, three years after the adoption of the media strategy in August 2014, the Assembly passed a set of media laws that were highly assessed by the EU, and the political will was motivated by just opening negotiations with the EU and Serbia's EU membership. Therefore, the maximum mobilisation of the resources of the Ministry of Culture and Information and Coordination within the Government resulted in visible developments in the media sphere, but unfortunately, at the end of the implementation of the first media strategy, i.e. from 2011 to 2016. The media strategy was adopted on 30 January 2020 with a delay. Already, that fact is enough, although it was followed by a very fast and action plan for its implementation. This fact is enough to make us all serious in our intention to speed up the process of harmonising media laws with the strategy and action plan as soon as possible, as they are already, I repeat, rated as extremely good and done by the European Commission. Another information is important when we talk to REM, and REM is always an opportunity to talk more widely about both media and media freedoms and rights and obligations. This Regulation shall enter into REM requested, and on behalf of REM, the Council of Europe ordered an independent evaluation of the work of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media in the Republic of Serbia. The study was developed by a scientifically-based method of assessing the formal and defacto independence of supervisory bodies in the media area. Five different dimensions are measured: status and jurisdiction, financial independence, decision autonomy, knowledge and transparency and accountability. Therefore, the 2014 law and the applicable law provide for a number of REM obligations strengthened by these powers. There are, however, very professionally and clearly demonstrated, and clear shortcomings in the possibility of using different measures that REM could use to deter broadcasters from breaking the law. On the one hand, the supervisory authority has no authority to impose financial sanctions that are certainly much more effective than warnings. On the other hand, REM is insufficiently using sanctions with the greatest intimidation effect it has, i.e. a temporary ban on broadcasting of programmes to those who violate the right and what is authorised to broadcast media content recognised and submitted as a request for authorisation of the programme. Although the budgetary process and its approval are very clear, and the legal obligations foreseeable for the situation that parliament does not approve of the new budget, the fact in which REM was located, and all of us have witnessed this in the previous period is that it has worked several years in a row on the basis of an outdated plan that restricts them and their autonomy in deciding how money will be spent. It's a good thing we've fixed it in this session and approved REM's financial plan in time. The report requested by REM, and the Council of Europe has been assessed as the organisation of the process, nominations and appointments of members of the Council as the best practice and achieves good results in the legal assessment of the ranking tools. Where the shortcomings to be corrected in some future amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media have been observed, and this study has also shown, mainly concerns the complexity of individual stages in the nomination process of REM candidates. So, the study highly directly recommends that REM be given additional powers to impose financial sanctions and give precise recommendations on how to strengthen the control mechanisms of the bodies it already has, as I said, a key role in the development of an audiovisual space in Serbia. In the voting day, or tomorrow, we will, as I said most of the time, choose one of the two proposed candidates who will have no easy task of protecting media freedoms and promoting pluralism and freedom of expression through what are the legal powers and obligations of the REM Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6779	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlović Vacic. The word has the mandated representative of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, master Djordje Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6780	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, two candidates who meet the conditions. In the voting day, we'll pick one of those two candidates most of the time. This choice creates a condition for the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media to be filled with another member. When we talk about REM, it is functionally and financially independent from state authorities and organisations, providers on the other hand of media services and operators. A report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is submitted to the REM in order to carry out its tasks and responsibilities, while professional and administrative services have been educated. The Statute lays down basic rules on the organisation and mode of operation of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Members to tell the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, whose head Olivera Zekic is elected for a period of five years and is entitled to one re-election at the end and current president, as I said, Olivera Zekic had a re-election and was then elected president of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. The Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media has nine members and practically since December and the resignation of Slobodan Cvejic, who was elected to this post from the candidate ranks proposed by the committee of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. This Council does not work fully, and let me say that these two candidates that we have today are also on the proposal of the committee responsible for the AP Vojvodina Assembly. It is also important for the public to note that the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media could make decisions that require a two-thirds majority, even with only six members. Of course it's better that one of these independent bodies works at full capacity. The law on what business is and what rem's jurisdiction is on the other hand very clear. On members especially when they work in full capacity, it is up to them to fully respect everything that the law gives them as such. When we talk about the media sphere, it should be said that since 2000, its arrangement has been going very slowly. There are a number of problems that have followed how they make laws on the one hand, but on the other hand, and its application. There was, therefore, an absolute unwillingness to regulate the media scene in line with European standards and in the full public interest. In 2014, a law was introduced in the field of media for the first time fully in line with EU standards. The adoption of a new media strategy has created only one more space to improve the law by respecting everything the practice has so far shown. A very important segment is media literacy recognised by the strategy as a long-term goal, but there are no concrete measures regarding this area. On the other hand, there are no studies that are fully or better comprehensively concerned with the level of media literacy. The joint conclusion of all research carried out does not go into percentages that education of media literacy is necessary in all segments and age groups of society. At the very end, when we talk about this topic it is very important to say once again that it is important that REM works in full capacity. Of a new member expected, of course, and of all members that besides knowing the media and doing his job completely professionally. At the very end, I want to say no more about this subject that it's a political scene and I'm not going to say anything new. The opposition scene touched the bottom. My colleague Vojislav Vujic read a statement issued by Dragan Markovic Palm today. So, Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic, at the call for a duel that Dragan Markovic Palma sent them, spoke negatively, i.e. They can't come out, they can't go out on that duel and look the truth in the eyes. That's enough talking about who's telling the truth and who's telling lies. When they tell the truth, they give themselves the right to be both the court and the D.A. and the police. To whom in this way they have no right to defend, no right to truth and to lie, and on the other hand they must not go to the duel and look into the eyes of the truth. I don't know how much of a society we're going to tolerate someone for cheap political points lying this much without having any responsibility. We fully believe in the institution of this state and know that truth and justice are on our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6781	Thank you, Mr. Kosanic. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6782	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear colleagues, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, somehow always a nice debate when we talk about selecting members of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, because we are forced, above all, to defend something more intense than we should. The Committee on Culture and this was discussed by the chairman of the Committee and the authorised representative of my distinguished and dear colleague Sandra Christmas, he finished his part of the work and established a list of candidates on the basis of a proposal from the competent board of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. What I must say from the position of someone who has also met the candidates that we will declare in the voting day is that it is really two people who earn attention and earn trust and certainly whoever is elected in the voting day will respond to the task that has the best possible and almost no dilemma about it. The first candidate, Milorad Vukasinovic, deserves these people to say a few words about them, with a rich experience, a rich biography that really delegates him to the post of member of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and another candidate, significantly younger, Goran Eror, also a journalist but also a young and determined man to devote himself to a job that implies membership in this body. However, what happened and what they first faced, since we are talking about candidates from the AP Vojvodina, is this ruthless calling that both of them are closer to the SNS, the SPS or to whom we are already and again going back to the beginning, and I will consciously deal with the fact that only we in power respect some direct influence on the selection of members of the Regulatory Body for the Electronic Media, as if in the period before us... We never had a situation where the Serbian Parliament or the AP Vojvodina Assembly proposed members, and I don't know exactly what key it was working on at the time. If today we do everything we do with ambition and everything we say without seeing who the people we're talking about are. You know, we came as a society or at least trying to get us to the stages to think first about who someone belongs to, and then what his qualities are, which is inadmissible. It is particularly unacceptable to talk about candidates for members of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. We need to see what the elemental characteristics of the people we're proposing on these responsible functions are. I couldn't agree more, and one of my predecessors was telling me what to do, how to improve the laws. Yes, it is natural and this assembly will do so if we come into possession of a proposal for a law concerning the media. What is important to say is that it is not enough for you to now be a political opponent and attack all these people completely unconscious that they have their biographies, friends, family, and long work experience, or the enthusiasm of a youth that is not a handicap. For me, it was really particularly interesting that a young fellow like Goran Eror, who was born in 1991, had the ambition to be involved in the work of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. It promises that the generations to whom we should leave this Serbia, who come after us and that they have awareness of what the obligations are, what is where they can improve their effects tomorrow for all of us together. When from the position of someone who is absolutely mature, like the esteemed Mr. Vukasinović, in 1967, we have a candidate, then it is an impressive biography and it cannot be challenged. Indeed, whoever read it, and I believe it is, because it was available, there's not a single comma that one of these people could now honor as an inadequacy, except if I hear it's spinning on some media, I don't know by which, how are these regime candidates. As far as I know, both of them were obliged to meet the requirements of the committee, or the Committee on Culture of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and if they had not met the requirements, they would not have met first in front of the Committee on Culture of the Republic of Serbia, and then we would not have given the right to find themselves in front of you. I'm saying all of this because every time we touch REM, ever since we had that great request that I don't know how we choose REM members and that I don't know how Europe gets involved, and that's what the distinguished colleagues from the EU or at least the representatives took literally the distorted complete picture of it, and we even talked about it yesterday. We are actively trying to distort the image of what Serbia is today, and Serbia today is a country in which you have the right to ambition, in which you have both the right to patriotism and patriotism, but you do not have the right to create a picture of us only on the basis of some ambitions that are quite unrealistic to you, unfounded above all in the fact that you do not have enough support, you present as some kind of attack on freedom, on the possibility. I just don't know that vocabulary. I can't even quote it. That, Professor Atlagic, would do better than me. Really, I miss words in that part. So whoever is selected from the proposed two candidates, REM will get its eighth member and be able to function uninterrupted. I'm sure they'll be cooperative, first of all, and secondly, I think they'll enter one new energy, regardless of whether we choose a younger or older candidate. I have to say, if it were me who would decide, I'd give advantage to a young man, but it's something I generally think and I don't insist on any of you, nor can I blame any of you if you think otherwise than I do, because I'm back to square one again, two high-quality candidates without a single stain that could get their respect. Anything I would say through this about selecting a member for REM would be excessive and would spin around in circles. I'll use my time to point out another tiny detail, no less important, not in line with the agenda, not in the topic. I apologize to the chairman, and to all of you for jumping out for a moment. But TANJUG has just released the news, quoting, I think this is "Cohaditore", Kosovo or whatever it is, the so-called prime minister of temporary institutions in Kosovo has come forward and said they have confirmed the interest and willingness to move forward towards the EU and at the same time talked to friends and colleagues here in Brussels about helping us implement reforms, and on the other hand, to convince five member states that have not recognised Kosovo's independence to recognise it. I don't think anyone Albin Kurti has taken it seriously, nor will he listen to it, from five countries that have not recognised Kosovo, but I am consciously speaking in the Serbian Parliament because the Washington Agreement has been harshly violated by a statement like this, let alone an attempt. As long as someone thinks that Serbia, which is tolerant, even though I have to, I would really stay in debt if I didn't say, after that sentence – a lawsuit for Serbia means a fly on a bear, the president of Serbia, sin would be to say something over it, because I really see all their interventions literally as – a fly fell on a bear. But one of these abuses by Albin Kurti in the middle of Brussels speaks only of how they will not stop improvising, improvising in which, unfortunately, they help to make, despite our efforts, our breadth, yet Serbia is made by someone who is not for constructive dialogue. Oh, yes, we are for a constructive dialogue, but we are not for a dialogue where he expects us to normalise Belgrade and Pristina's relations exclusively and only see it in mutual recognition. We have nothing to confess when it comes to Albin Kurti, except that it could be dealt with by experts. I have distinguished colleagues from the field of medicine. There'd be room for some confessions, but I'm an economist, I can't do that. All other ambitions of Albin Kurti are also about ambitions or at least similar to those that honor us with everything else we have in Serbia today or not. Once again, I apologize for coming out of the agenda reading this news, but I think it is really important that the Serbian public hears that what the Kobajagi have promised even to some of their mentors in America, who are hypersensive, respected gentlemen who call themselves authorities will neither respect nor think of holding on to it. In the voting day, we will certainly, pleading on all other points of the agenda, as a parliamentary group of SPS, give their vote to one of the candidates, whoever is elected. I am today taking the opportunity to really congratulate him, but also to ask, and finally and binding him from the position of a member of the Committee on Culture, that the work that we will trust him, above all, is being carried out responsibly and in accordance with the Constitution of this state of Serbia, and that all the other remarks he will experience will somehow survive and ignore. It's the result of public life, and we all put up with it more or less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6783	Thank you. For our children, Mrs Jelena Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6784	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, even though we are already in the ninth session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, only speaks for the fact that today the National Assembly is very ready to pass laws and sublaws as soon as possible, as well as relevant decisions and provisions that will contribute to Serbia's progress today, along with all its citizens. It is therefore an extraordinary honor for me to speak to our children about today's agenda as an authorised representative of the Electoral Group, Aleksandar Vukic. It's a selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. The Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media was established by the Electronic Media Act, which was adopted in 2014. One of the main tasks of this regulatory body is to improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services, as well as, above all, the preservation, protection and development of freedom of opinion and clarification in order to protect the public interest in this area, as well as to protect the users of electronic media services themselves. The Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media numbers nine members. These members are selected from the order of prominent experts from areas of paramount importance for, above all, the work and functioning of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. These are members of the media field, they are economists, lawyers, telecommunications engineers and other people who contribute, above all, efficiency in the work of this Regulatory Body. I would highlight the fact that everyone has the right to propose candidates to elect members of the Council, given that we have witnessed that in the media this particular fact is respected by the very fact that everyone has the right to propose, especially this one today by these tycoon media. Therefore, according to the law, whoever has the right to propose members of the Council for Electronic Media are, above all, the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then, the committee of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, then, all accredited universities in the Republic of Serbia, then, associations of electronic media publishers, associations of journalists in the Republic of Serbia, then, associations of film, stage and drama artists, associations of composers, above all, associations whose aims are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children, national councils of national minorities, as well as churches and religious communities. This is extremely important to note, because in this legislative provision, first of all, these democratic principles of decision-making are based and what is most important, the freedom to run for representatives of the Council, and we see that absolutely all the structures of our society in the Republic of Serbia are represented. Although many of this aspect dispute, the Board of Regulators is, in accordance with the provisions of the law, above all, independent and independent in making its decisions. What I would particularly like to mention, very active in my work. This can be seen from the 2020 REM Report, which says that as many as 36 sessions were held at which 690 decisions were taken. In the last year, three media service licenses were extended, 16 were issued, and 20 licences were extended on request. Then, five permits to provide media services ceased to apply, 14 consent was given to change the ownership structure and so on. However, the Council of this regulatory body, although constantly criticised on this issue, must point out that it has also brought three measures of warning, six measures of warning, even three measures of temporary banning the publication of software content. The Board of Regulators is obliged to respect the principles of objectivity, impartiality, and I am almost confident and to do so in accordance with all the legal provisions. Before moving to the reasoning of this item of the agenda, what I would particularly like to point out and remind you is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decided on 17 December 2020 on the selection of the members of the REM Council, where it selected two members of the Council, which is in favour of the fact that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is today very effective in its work, as well as commitment and responsibilities and respect for legal rights and legal deadlines. The legal basis for selecting members of the REM Council is contained in the provisions of Article 8. The Law on Electronic Media, as well as Article 8. Laws of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, it states that the members of the REM Council shall be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Authorised Proposer who, in this case, is the Committee on Culture and Information and Public Information of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. From my esteemed colleague, the People's Parliament, Sandra Christmas, who is also the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Informing of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have had the opportunity to hear that the entire procedure for the implementation of this contest has been respected - from the publication of a public call for selection, the submission of candidates to the publication of a public competition, the implementation of the whole process and the respect of all deadlines. Thus, the deadline for proposing candidates expired on 21 April 2020, and the proposed proposal was submitted to the Committee on the same day by two candidates. The list of candidates for the REM Council was set at a meeting of the Committee held on 27 April 2020. In accordance with the law, that is, Article 10 of Act No 5, it was published on the website of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is now available to the public. What I must particularly point out is that the Committee on Culture and Information on 28 April 2020, at its sitting, has just organised that these candidates can speak about themselves, make known about their candidacy, their professional skills, but also all the Committee members, the Committee's deputies, all the members of the Committee, have had the opportunity to talk to the proposed candidates and to ask them about their professional experiences, work in the profession, and how they can see their future work in the Board of Regulators' Council. Otherwise, at the same session, the National Assembly Committee sent a list of two candidates and Mr Milorad Vukasinovic and Mr Goran Eror are on the list. The Board of Regulators of the Regulatory Body currently numbers seven of the nine members. We now choose one, but another is missing, for the reason that Professor Zoran Simjanovic died in April this year, so this procedure will expect us for another member. I would therefore invite all MPs, first of all, to choose one of these two candidates, which will contribute, not only to this candidate, but to the work of the regulatory body itself. I hope that this candidate will justify his trust, not only the mandated proposer of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, but also the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and thus contribute more effectively and even more effectively to the work of this body. However, when we are still talking about REM, we cannot help but notice the fact of what is happening in the media in Serbia today. For a long time, we have been present with one whole Satanization of the entire family of President Alexander Vukic, whether it's his children, his parents or his brother, Andre Vukic. It certainly is one way to condemn it right through REM that has to react to these things. What's this about? We have statements in the media, especially in those tycoon media that are the personal property of Dragan Gilas. We have statements, not just from law school pedophiles, who shouldn't have gone on a polygraph because one of the questions was probably supposed to be – did you attack children younger than you 50 years old. In the most brutal way in the media, he tells lies about President Aleksandar Vukic's son, Danil Vukic, that he has nothing to do with the various clans, the criminal clans, that he wants to kidnap some kind of Partizan fan group, which is absolutely notorous lies. The question arises – why do the media in Serbia need to satanicize a young man in the first place today? Is it just because he's President Alexander Vukic's son and are they aware that they're drawing a target on the head of this young man and not only question his safety, but they've just ruined his entire life? Do the media in Serbia, the tycoon media owned by Dragan Gilas, today want to politicise and criminalise the whole process at all, wouldn't they try to get into power with these same criminals because they can't do it in a legitimate way? What is it like in Serbia today that Thai media are doing? I'm about to show you. You have the list “Today” that has on its cover – Vukic accuses Gilas of being a megaphone Belivuk group. Just under this title is a picture of President Alexander Vukic with his son. Is this the politicization and criminalization of the entire process and the drawing of the target at the head of President Alexander Vukic's son? Of course I do. Why is it necessary for someone's children to be on the front page when it comes to politics? Why are the media doing this today, Dragan Gilas? You have the opportunity today to see the "Today" list, which also covers the son of President Aleksandr Vukic, Danilo Vukic, where the title says - evidence that the mafia has access to the top of the state. So, another proof of how President Aleksandar Vukic's children are being dragged into the entire criminal process today and, above all, they are being falsely accused and the politicization of the entire process that today the state of Serbia is leading to the fight against crime and corruption is now being brought down by members of the family of President Aleksandr Vukic, in order to emotionally destroy him, destroy him, and, above all, destroy the lives of his family members. You have the "Time" list, which says on its front page – the president's son among the messengers, and also a picture of Daniel, the son of President Aleksandr Vukic. How many times have this kind of media, Dragan Gilas, been making notorious lies about President Alexander Vukic's son, Danil Vukic's son, and in such a way, wanting to achieve only one thing, to emotionally destroy President Alexander Vukic, to think or to come into a situation that the president once said, I don't want to fight with this anymore, and I don't want to continue fighting and to arrest the clans of Vuk Belivuk and other criminal groups. Ladies and gentlemen, this will never happen again in Serbia. Serbia today, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, is more than ever more powerful and determined to deal with corruption and crime in Serbia. For this, evidence is a number of members of crime groups who are just behind bars today, such as Wolf Belivuk and similar. But the fight against crime and corruption and today will continue and will continue until the end, until all those who have defiled their hands with blood are behind bars, all those who have led to the criminalisation of various social spheres today in Serbia, whether they are public functions, whether they are other social spheres. And in what way exactly the media portals of Dragan Gilas are doing, I'm about to show you. You have a portal Directly published on May 12th of this year by the title – War of Cemeteries by statements and which is the role of Danil Vukic. Of course, none of their titles that satanize Alexander Vukic's family cannot be mentioned without mentioning President Aleksandar Vukic's son Danilo Vukic. But it wouldn't be a problem if it weren't for the notorious lies of this very portal. What's this about? This portal was presented and called for the sources of a fan group that organized some sort of event in its notice of the group that you can see right now there is not a single word about Danil Vukic or any of his participation in all that they organized and worked for. And I'll quote you: "The cheerleading group that issued a statement called - The notification to the cemetery public by gravediggers - found out that the biggest cemetery scum headed by those who defiled our temple of football is trying to take advantage of this situation and is reorganizing. Shobic, Kimi, Rosavi, even Rade, attended the meeting by Isaacic, who for his known reasons left the same," etc. It was a source called the portal directly owned by Dragan Gilas. How did they take it? I quote: "Danilo Vukic, son of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, according to the group Partizan's fan group in the south -- this portal I was just quoting -- has promised to help the state take over the southern tribune at a meeting of the leaders of individual black and white group. " I quote: “The gravediggers, we learned that the biggest scum of cemeteries headed by those who defiled our temple of football, is trying to take advantage of this situation and reorganize. Shobic, Kimi, Rosavi, even Rade, also attended the meeting, which they add, without even standing at the source of Danilo Vukic, decided to repeat again with the help of the current authorities – Danilo Vukic, trying to take over the southern tribune." Please, gentlemen present, as well as future REM members, should we and how should we stand in the way of such false statements in the media? Does Dragan Gilas, with media like this, draw a target at the head of President Alexander Vukic's son, want to satanize the entire family, or does he just want to send a message to those criminal groups – yes, keep working like that, because that's the only way we're going to take down Alexander Vukic? No, gentlemen, that's not the way you're gonna take down Alexander Wolfie. You failed even when Aleksandar Vukic launched an entire fight and campaign against crime and corruption in Serbia. On the day the campaign was launched, see what the media published at that time. At the same time, President Alexander Vukic's son, Danil Vukic, and his brother, Andrej Vukic, were announced and placed in the same basket with the most notorious criminals today in the Republic of Serbia. Is this the freedom of the media required by these opposition people today in Serbia, those tycoons today in Serbia, who can't even call themselves opposition? Is the freedom of the media in Serbia today what Koraks drew? Is this cartoon by President Aleksandar Vukic just another message to criminal groups – continue to criminalise Serbia, will Vukic fall sometime? Is it even a mockery on such an important and terrible subject where we had the chance to see where these criminals, the most notorious, are grinding people, grinding our children just because someone doesn't think like them? Is this exactly the kind of media with this kind of statement giving the same people legitimacy that they should continue to work like that? Do the media in Serbia today advise us not to choose funds to come to power, to satanicize children, to use the most unethical ways to come to power? Yes, that's what the media of Dragan Gilas is doing today in Serbia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the state of Serbia headed by President Aleksandar Vukic is also more determined and stronger today than ever to stand in the way of such a political stalemate, such immoral people, not only them, but all criminal groups, criminals, all those who have raped and thought they could be above the state, think they can use this state, that they can use its money, the money of Serbian citizens and criminalise all the spheres of our society. It was Alexander Vukic who was raped and dared as president of the state to stand in the way and fight corruption and crime and all the tycoons and all the political hostages in this country. He'll keep doing it until the moment they're all behind bars, all those who've shaved their hands in the blood of all innocent people. I would like to conclude from this place in the end and above all to tell all of you that the members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, as well as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have lost their honor and morality today and what should be done first and foremost, that we should work together to fight this very thing never again in the state of Serbia, that children are never satanized again, that children never draw targets at the head of children and that no one else's children are being abused for political purposes, so neither are the children of President Alexander Vukic. The children are to be protected, the children are most precious, the most sacred of all of us from individuals, and therefore there is one single word that just describes everything we should do together in the next period, as well as what REM should do, and that is condemning immorality, we condemn political scum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-19-0.u6785	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – for our children". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what we do today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you, everyone.
