ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 162 MPs are present in the hall at this time, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented the minutes of the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Affairs Office of the Committee on the Administrative Budget and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th session, held on 13 and 14 July. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote: a total of 171 for – 167 did not vote – four MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Eighth Extraordinary National Assembly session in the 12th Assembly by majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 236 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, the following Dn e n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Culture; 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on library and information activity; 3. Proposal for a Law confirming the Decision of the Joint Committee of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe No 1/2021 amending Annex 4 of the Agreement on Free Trade in Central Europe (CEFTA 2006), laying down the Protocol on the definition of the concept of ‘produced products’ and methods of administrative co-operation referred to in Articles 14th and 3rd and repealing and replacing the Joint Committee on Free Trade in Central Europe. 3/2013 and 3/2015 National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) and Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the first two points of the agenda. Does Ambassador Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote: total – 171 for – 169 did not vote – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. As you assume, I'll let you know about the dynamics of work. Today we're going to be working on the first two points of the agenda, tomorrow morning on the third item of the agenda. At 13:30, there will be an oath by the newly elected prosecutor, or the Republic Public Prosecutor. In the afternoon there will be parliamentary issues to the government of the Republic of Serbia, at the end of the month and afterwards. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend the meetings of Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information Gordana Comic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue and Radovan Jokic and Daniela Vanušić, acting as Assistant Minister of Culture and Information. Also, just to point out, Serbia's Radio-Television has announced it will not be able to monitor the Assembly's meeting in a direct transmission to the Second Programme, due to the transfer of sports competitions from the Olympic Games and that it will transfer to RTS Three. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Culture and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Library Information Work. I want to say hello to Minister Gordana Komic and ask her if she wants a word. Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8606	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, you have two proposals for amending the law - amending the Law on Culture and amending the Law on Library Information Action. The first of these two laws to be discussed in a joint principled search, therefore, by amending the Culture Act, is related to the reference provisions of the Law on Gender Equality which entered into force on 1 June 2021. He represents the activities of the Ministry of Culture and Minister Gojkovic, one of the first to be in front of you because of the reference provisions of the Law on Gender Equality. Otherwise, the Law on Culture, which was adopted in 2009 and entered into force in 2010, has already changed the decisions of the National Assembly 2016, by correction of 2020. This law, starting with the application of March 2010, was essentially the first law where the area of culture, which until then was regulated without its general act, without the text of a law that we would like as a state and society to say what it is and how to regulate it in the fields of culture, how to finance, how to control, how to apply and everything else about laws that regulate the entire areas... This law, here, has been in force for 11 years, and it operates in the area of culture. Like any law that only after applying can be quite clear in an ex post analysis to show both institutions and society and those to whom what it is to be changed and he has suffered changes, and this change that is before you, which we will discuss, is based on the reference provisions of the Law on Gender Equality. So, after the adoption of the Law on Culture, several sublegal acts stemming from it have been brought forward, which in a detailed way have regulated certain issues which are basically regulated by this law, as is usually the case with the laws. In essence, the adoption of legal acts really enables the application of acts. If you postpone, do not pass or bring in enough good sublaws, free of good laws, so we enter into a sentence that has been repeated for three years in EU reports -- Serbia has very good laws, but that very bad, weak or not applied at all, sublegal acts, and this one, which will arise from your decision to adopt amendments to the Law on Culture proposed by the Ministry of Culture, will result in consequences under the similar provisions of the Law on Gender Equality. The adoption of the Law on Culture and Sublegislative Acts created the preconditions for the adoption of other laws that detailed certain areas of culture, which had to comply with the principles laid down in the Law on Culture, thus creating legal preconditions for a uniform, systematic and therefore more effective regulation of the entire area of culture. It's a big job that the state administration and governments have brought together in various synergy, but it's important work because we can only remember two cultural anecdotes. One, when the British wartime prime minister was told how World War II would end, and he asked, "What will happen to our culture, and they said, "It doesn't matter, and then he says," and then why will we fight? Others, EU founders said that if we start unifying again, i.e. the idea of creating a common community of European countries, so that both the coal and steel community would start from culture, because it is important to talk about cultures of various societies, and therefore it is important that each of us has a regulated area of culture by law, in a way that it considers to be consistent with its cultural and historical heritage, its narrative and everything that a nation's culture does. Therefore, all of the above confirms the importance of this act in terms of its role in creating a system of legal regulation in the field of culture, and consequently the importance and effects of the amendments and addition of this act to the functioning of our cultural system. The birth equality law, as I said, has been in place since 1 June 2021, and it establishes new rules regarding the balanced gender representation that exists when the representation of one of the sexes is between 40% and 50% compared to the other. So no less than 40% of the less represented sex. A highly unbalanced gender representation exists when the representation is one half lower than 40% compared to the other sex, unless otherwise derived from a specific law. Accordingly, there is a obligation to comply with the Law on Culture, as a system act, which regulates culture, with the Law on Gender Equality in establishing a balanced gender representation in the entire system in which our culture operates. In this way, these amendments to the Culture Act stipulate the obligation for the boards of directors of the five-member institutions to have at least 40% of the representatives of the less-represented sex, that the supervisory boards of the three-member cultural institutions have at least 40% of the less-represented gender, as well as of 11 members of the National Cultural Council shall be at least 40% of the representatives of the less-represented sex. The proposed amendments to the Law on Culture are further optimised by this law, adapting it to real needs and aligning it with other legal acts. It is important to note here just when it comes to culture that it will hardly be better evidence that the Law on Gender Equality is not a law on women and men, but that the law on women and men is likely to be a bigger problem and that it will need more skills, knowledge and creativity to measure than 40% of the less represented half where women are most, and where men are minority. When you look in all areas of our social life or economic life, financial, political, you will see that the sectors that will also have to comply with the Law on Gender Equality about 40% of the less represented sex, where there is no money, where there is no power, where there is no special status of social, reputation, reputation, there will be a majority of women and there will be a lot of imagination and goodwill to make the area attractive and men and to be where there are none, and there are obviously not enough in culture, there are not enough in health, in education, in justice, in state administration, in ministries, in all the secretariats of local self-government. Most women are there, and the law says it does not distinguish gender, but we ask it to be 40% less represented sex. Somewhere it'll be women, somewhere there'll be men, and it'll take us time to really imitate everything the Law on Gender Equality requires of us. Finally, I would like to remind you that this is one of the provisions that did not raise great public attention when the Law on Gender Equality was passed, as well as the other two important provisions that did not give public attention, broaderly, are yours, of course, because you are the expert public, except for you representing Serbian citizens. The second provision of the Law on Gender Equality, which will also lead to the coming proposals for amending the laws before you are the plans of integrity and obligation to have in every sectoral policy a group of people, whatever they call every ministry, local self-government, justice, independent bodies, which will also report to the National Assembly on how politics in Serbia each year, what consequences are left on women's lives, such as on men's lives. The integrity plans will be a big job that will end up serving a better quality of life for both women and men because we will have accurate information about how we live both. Another provision that will make the laws come before you is the principle - the bully pays in the Law on Gender Equality, has also not caused much attention, which is that for the first time we have to pay the withdrawal programme from the Republic of Serbia's budget and this will be resolved by sublegal acts, but eventually the bully will have to spend money on his withdrawal from the violence he himself chose to return to the budget, similar to the principle - the polluter pays in the protection of the environment. Because we deeply believe, and you have confirmed by your voices, that environmental pollution is a danger to all of us, and that violence is the pollution of our social relations and represents the exact same danger as air, water and soil pollution, and we should fight it with all available means. I am really glad that Minister Maja Gojkovic has already put in front of all of us amendments to the Law on Culture and that your decision on this in the voting day will allow the adoption of the Law on Culture and the Law on Gender Equality to begin. The second bill before you is a proposal to amend the Law on Library Information Action and this is an example when it is closely monitored how the law is applied, how clearly it makes it the Ministry of Culture, then you see that you have to measure the "ex post" analysis of the application of the law to intervene and to change the provisions that either the law makes inapplicable, or make it selectively applicable, or make it applicable so that it creates an inequality which then creates dissatisfaction with those to which the law applies. And this is the case with the Library Information Act. It has been in place since 2011 and is a system act for library-information work. This practically means that this area of culture is legally regulated so that it primarily applies the provisions of the Law on Library Information Action and applies to those parts of the library system which are not governed by this Act to the provisions of the Law on Culture as a system act for the entire area of culture. It's a gap in which these two laws have been introduced, as supervised and monitored by the Ministry of Culture's application and this issue is before you today. One of these issues, therefore, in the Law on Library Information Action, concerns the selection of library directors, although the Law on Culture regulates the matter relating to the conditions for selecting the directors of cultural institutions, in which libraries usually count. But since they have their own special law, then in this special law you have provisions on the selection of directors. The Law on Culture found that candidates for directors of cultural institutions must have higher education and at least five years of working experience in culture. Other conditions for selecting candidates for directors of institutions shall be laid down by the statutes of the institution, as usual in our legal system. On the other hand, in the Law on Library Information Action, it was found that a person with a higher education and at least three years of working experience in culture, meeting other conditions laid down by the library's statutes, is appointed as a director. This solution caused problems in the practice of implementing all the provisions of the law, public competitions for the selection of library directors, because in some cases provisions of the Law on Culture, five years of working experience in culture and higher education were applied, and in other laws on library and informational work, higher education and three years of cultural experience. The problems in practice were also caused by the very contents of the library’s internal acts, as the Law on Culture established the founder’s obligation to approve the statute and act on the organisation and systematization of institutions or offices of the institution of culture. In practice, this meant that the library, founded by the Republic of Serbia, gave consent to the ministry, or the government of the Republic of Serbia. In an internal act of the library, the founder of the AP Vojvodina or units of local self-government or the city of Belgrade, the authority of the province or unit of local self-government, which is also the founder of the institution, gives consent. Accordingly, the ministry did not have any insight into all the consent of all the founders, since it implies that each is responsible, so that on the basis of this responsibility it gave consent to the institutions to which the founder is, whether it is a unit of local self-government, an autonomous province or, in the event that he has insight into consent, an institution of culture to which the founder of the Republic is. The law on culture where there is a condition of five years of experience was then applied somewhere and was also characterized by the internal acts of institutions, and somewhere the Law on Library-Information Activity and that is what created inequality, and where inequality should not be, or an unequal solution in the practice of selecting a library director in our country. By amending the Law on Library Information Action, if you agree to give support to such amendments, this problem is regulated by the provision of the Law on Library Information Action, which provides for a condition of three years of working experience, is amended by the Law on Culture in which this period represents five years of working experience, thus avoiding any mention of dualism in the application of the rules and in the practice of selecting a library director in public competitions. With gratitude for the confidence of Minister Maja Gojkovic in the name of the valuable work of the co-worker of the ministry and her presentation and I defend these two amendments and the addition of the law before you, the Law on Culture and Library Information Action, I hope that during the debate we will be able to clarify all what any of you may consider to be insufficiently clear or has critical remarks or suggestions of the amendment species and that in the day of voting you will decide to support both amendments and addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8607	Thank you. Do any of the committee's reporters report? No, I don't. We are going to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8608	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Vice-President, the Honorable Minister with the Co-operation, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, as we have spoken many times before, is definitely one of the most challenging topics for me, one of the most important topics that can appear before us, MPs, but not only in front of us, but also in front of the entire intellectual and cultural community of this country. Whether or not there are proposals that are essential or technical in nature or in the background that have the need to comply with other laws, this topic cannot have any peripheral or technical significance. True, what is explained about the need for reconciliation certainly is that once we have adopted these laws, regardless of the different attitudes, what is necessary and which cannot be avoided, and that means that we should be supported, is the harmonisation and the Law on Culture with these laws, but certainly that the treatment of this law brings us back to the essence. No matter how brave we have the courage, the capacity, the strength, the determination to go deep into the Law on Culture, that is, the opening of the topic of culture and here in the National Assembly. Therefore, we cannot ignore the fact that the question of relations to culture is a fundamental and strategic issue for one nation, community, and society as a whole. On the other hand, we have to admit that we've not only been in the so-called three decades. The transition period which loses all meaning because of the fact that it takes so long, we must already admit, and that we are in a kind of confusion of our relationship to our culture, that is, according to the principles on which our culture would be defined, and then our relationship to culture. Of course, the debates we had here were so-called. sensitive laws, including the Law on Gender Equality, actually, indicators that confirm that we still have insufficient clarity, if it's not a mild formulation, a relationship to what our culture is. Unfortunately, the easiest thing to do is fall under what is common media, and even a colloquial narrative that culture is a theater, that it's an exhibition, and that's how we treat ourselves, that's a movie, a series, and that's our culture. No, gentlemen, these are some elements or parts of art, and art is one important segment of our culture, or so on. It's an elite culture. But culture is something much more important, culture is actually something that is contained in the space between two extremes, so it is one question of our universe, our perception of life, understanding of the principles that determine our life on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the practice itself of what is a simple detail in our everyday behavior, of regulating our relationships, of human relationships, or of being picturesquely speaking, culture is what determines our relationship, our relationship to ourselves, our relationship to other people, our relationship to nature and the whole cosmos, and ultimately the relationship to God, or the deity that we have that meaning. So that's what some frameworks of culture really are. Now, in constant relations with the question of culture or the opening of this topic, what I'm not glad about is that we don't have the capacity to go so far as to look at these topics in its reality, depth and content. True, I must admit that for this topic, and to say crystallization, this relationship in all its layers of complexity, neither the National Assembly can be the only or the main or the key, which should and should deal with this topic, or that some, let me say, important or executive, if I may say so, answers to society. This is a topic that must deal with all the structures of our society, primarily the structure of the spirituality of our society, including intellectual spirituality, religious, artistic, and all other aspects of our spirituality. I am sorry that we do not yet show interest in these circles, and let alone in ordinary folk circles on this subject, given the various other problems that are pressing us, given some kind of spiritual wasteland that we have and after half a century of the rule of antitheist, let me say, attitudes, principles, systems, and, on the other hand, international circumstances in cultural and political terms are also at the expense of the possibility of opening this topic relieved and in terms of preparedness to face all its depths, widths and layers. We are witnessing that today, especially modern civilization, and what is called so-called. The advanced, Western world is located on a certain edge of its development, primarily cultural development, and there are not few large brains that today realize that Western society has, in fact, already entered a phase or era of post-cultural society, or a post-cultural period, a post-deological period, etc. Of course, the indicators are numerous, it may not be this opportunity to detail this, but one small indicator that can be, at least a symbolic parameter, let's say, Paris – France, center, metropolis, centre, capital of Europe's culture. For example, the French nation for the last 10 years, for example, for the Nobel Prize for Literature, had no candidate for the native French. It doesn't have to mean everything, not much, but it's talking about a kind of spiritual wasteland of Western materialized, materialistic society that's already becoming, let's say, congested, drained, in terms of cultural, and above all artistic, and specifically literary, or literary creation. So these are some indicators of where we're going if we're actually going now, so we're intruding on that material-materialistic cultural matrix and where it's leading us. So it's one thing to accept the proven range of science, technology, organization of state, society, administration, urbanist arrangements, etc., that advanced Western society, that's one aspect that's more civilization than culture, and that's undeniable, the two simply don't have to be put in the same basket. But, on the other hand, under the light or under the impact of the light of civilization-technical and scientific progress, it would be pointless to close your eyes under the shock of that light in front of what is a cultural wasteland, or the kind of cultural darkness that all materialistic societies enter into. We simply, here, should at least gather the strength to face this problem, and say yes, we are in trouble. What is our cultural matrix, what is it that determines the pattern of our culture? I'm going to go back to that basic notion, whether we take the term old Greek term cultus – which means divinity, what it worships, which is actually the basic material on which the concept of culture was created, or to take into account how other interpretations of the term cultivarian- Latin term that means to edit life. It has basics, therefore, for both language and terminological interpretations, but whatever these two concepts are about defining the very concept of culture, language and terminological whichever of them we take, we come to the same. We come to the fact that there must be a principle by which we regulate our lives. What I want to open here, as a question of me and you and the whole spiritual and spiritual-intellectual public, is the principle, which is the principle, whether we have this principle, whether it's the principle of faith in God, by that definition of monotheistically known, or we've denied that principle, and we're now making some pagan deities, concrete, inconclusive, abstract, whatever. So that's what we have to tell ourselves and others, that's what we have to tell the people, the nations, the society, by what principle, who is the one who determines our principle, or very simply, who is God, what do we accept for God? Of course, this is a fundamental question and it is not just a religious question, as you can see that it is a very clear cultural question. Of course, here's just a formal mention of the relationship between the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Culture, we are, in fact, even today in this law, the truth in the symbolic formal sense, confirming that the Law on Gender Equality was not an ordinary law, that it was an idea, ideological, cultural law, a basic law that had its implications for culture, so it would have its implications for education, etc. Of course, we are now not going back to the old debate, because we have exchanged enough views and I do not think there is anything inexplicable left and from the position of the then proposed minister, and from my position and positions of those who have been dissent, which is, among other things, the quality of this National Assembly, that we can express different views, not only party political, but ideologically, culturally and ultimately make decisions as prescribed by law and vote these laws, accept or do not accept them. But certainly the fact that a law is passed does not mean that it will close, lock down the debate, especially when it comes to such important laws or such important topics that have deep and root, but also profound reflections on our life, or ours, to the arrangement of our lives. Another important issue, related to this topic, is the attitude of culture and freedom, because in fact an ideological problem today in terms of these two perceptions of the understanding of culture that arises on the principles of faith and belief, which in our case has already been confirmed by centuries of tradition, belongings, monotheism or monotheistic beliefs on the one hand, and this other so-called. a modern concept that actually prefers culture as a form that is created on the loose with quotes, so clearly on my part put on the notion of freedom for the reason that this freedom remains undefined and that we also have different perceptions in understanding the concept of freedom itself. Because the idea of freedom as a tendency to remove all borders is a very sweet idea, so an idea that's receptive, which, as you tell a man, will gain freedom or get unlimited freedom, or will continue to remove borders on his freedom, is like telling a child that the rules of his education, his life, that he doesn't have to get up to go to school, that he doesn't have to wash his hands, etc., then you'll get a round of applause for the children if you break their rules. Of course, we're grown-up kids who also love to play, love and not follow the rules somehow whatever that biological dimension or animal dimension, whatever you want, man. So that's something that's very receptive and hundreds of millions of people have been recruited today who simply and their cultural pattern define it accordingly. But here we are in trouble. We are in trouble in one segment with the right to that Roman-continental, therefore, that the right of one man is determined or restricted to the right of another man which is a rough part of the story. But the essential part of the story is right – what about culture? Is it possible to be completely free and cultural? No, it's not possible. So culture actually means culture, and that means order, and that means that you know exactly what you can, what you can't. It's just that culture doesn't have the ambition to make you cultural by law, it wants to cultivate you, it wants to inspire you, it wants to entangle you. In fact, the ambition of culture is to awaken humanity and nobility in you, so that then the manners of our behavior are not something that is caused by a pendejo and controlled by force, but something that is part of our education, our culture and that we simply feel uncomfortable if we treat someone or some of us. There we are now at the very crossroads where we have to clarify whether we want a culture that is actually in its ambition, in its ideal there is anarchism, there is a removal of borders, or we actually want a culture that is formed on a particular cult, or at a certain relationship between our worship. Of course, there is a fundamental problem where there is a political divide, difference or divide between the left and the right, and that is a matter of relationship to the principle. Can the principle be established by man or by principle only by God? So, right-wing, ethicalists, traditionalists, of course, without a nationalistic prank, which is not a right-wing story, nationalism is a left-wing freak who's planted on his right hand, it's another topic I'm not going to spend this time on right-wing, but here we are at a crucial crossroads, who can establish a principle? So left, modernists say that man is master of himself, he can establish everything including the principle. Of course it's also a scientific question, a philosophical question, an ethical, theological question, etc., but a very simple attempt, an attempt to show that the cultural-civilization domain that man sets his principles has failed. Because a man is subjective, a man cheers for himself, a man is not objective to himself. He can't set his own limits, he can't set his own limits. A man in all historical practice has proved selfish that he can give himself privileges, that he can prescribe for himself what he wants, which is easier for him, which is his interest. In every attempt by man to establish principles, he did not establish values, he established interesting principles. He has set himself principles of his own interest, of interest comes to the expression of biology, animal aspect, spirit, spirituality, man, humanity, ethics, nobility, here they are defeated. So this is a subject that may not seem typically political, but it is the essence that we will face over and over again. The more our experiments fail, the more we now make the nation, tradition, nation of spirituality, nation of religion a "coca-cola" nation, we make this hedonism nation, etc., yes, it's very attractive. Make a reality, throw all kinds of parties, make festivals on the street from the "Bir" festival, we end up having an orgy in the squares like Athens ended, so we'll have to figure out if we're going to kill Socrates, banish Plato, etc. So, we're going to face that subject. It's a typical ethical-cultural theme. But I want to inform you and the citizens, that this topic, that we cannot ignore it. We can't push her under the carpet and we'll have real laws in culture only when we have the courage to face this. I don't prefer this to be the end of it or the end of it. I just prefer this topic that it's so important that we have to open it up to all cultural, intellectual, theological, artistic, all the elite relationships to come to the right solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8609	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Gordana Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8610	Thank you. Two information that I hope will be useful to your thinking and words and arguments that you have shared with us. The first information is that the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue in Co-operation, and part of the Office's initiative of the President of the Republic, prepares and we are in progress, we are working to prepare an interfaith dialogue in Serbia where all traditional churches and religious communities would be present and where we are not someone from the Ministry who will impose an agenda or topic, but participants of dialogue. If one of the topics is willing to be our interfaith culture or culture of worship, none more content than us. We are a tool to start and start a thorough and social dialogue of this kind and the talks we have already made with some religious communities suggest that both the President of the Republic and ours are very well received and that people are ready to participate. Other information concerning the second social dialogue to be held on 25 August this year and the topic of this social dialogue is media culture. We, of course, will, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, with civil society, with bodies, organisations and institutions paid from the budget to deal with the image of the culture of the media, be more than happy to send the invitation, as well as every time and MP groups, and we will be pleased to have you participate in such a single dialogue, because this idea of the culture of the media came and partly from civil society, partly from what the Ministry of Culture and Ministers are already doing directly in the desire to bring back what is a legal framework, so we think there should be social dialogue about it, and part of our association to the famous work of Renam Grit, where the pipe is drawn, and through that letter. So this isn't a pipe, this is a picture of a pipe. So let's see what's in our society pictures of culture and what culture really is. We will be pleased to host both the cases and the MPs and all those interested, because we consider the subject as important as the amendments and additions to the laws that the Ministry of Culture has put before you. I can only add to the end that, by considering the subject that you've shared your views on, I deeply believe that culture, whether you look at it as culture or as a cult, you can always find it in the anxiety of the human soul as a counterpoint of the beauty of the world, and that will always be a topic for every civilization, for every generation, because any such topic requires an answer to the question of why violence and evil in humans is spontaneous, and humanity and culture should be encouraged, awakened and talked about. That's what social dialogues are for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8611	Replica, the word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8612	Thank you, Your Honor. This is very wonderful news for these two announced events, in terms of the inter-religious dialogue that is really needed and which should have been launched much earlier, but thank you for that, as well as the issue of culture in the media. So these are all wonderful topics and I'm glad you're showing your understanding. I would suggest more culture ministers, even more massively, to start conversations, public debates, dialogues on these basic issues of culture, the challenges of culture. Where are we going? Just what I've tried here today and on many occasions to open is actually something that needs it. It takes all the potential, from religious, artistic and intellectual, scientific, educational, to actually engage freely on this, without tension, without the burden of party-political, without the burden of law, promoter, support, non-support, because we have certain limitations here. So, we're partners in the ruling majority, so now that one law is proposed, even if we don't like something, we have to be very careful whether we're going to say something against it because the correctness of our relationships obliges us to give support, and on the other hand, we want to point out again the importance of some topics and the need to complete them. So, I am pleased that you are showing and I am convinced that Minister Gojkovic, given the earlier attitudes and our communication, will also make an additional effort to make as many of these dialogue topics as possible, which may be to someone who is not engaged in these deep and boring and symbolic, but believe them are the ones that define the foundations on which we can then freely and automatically build our cultural and any other future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8613	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8614	Thank you. Thank you, MP, for your presentation. I thank Minister Gordani Comic, of course. I just want to illustrate exactly our example, an example of a culture of dialogue that the two of us have developed in the last session of Parliament, how important it is to talk and how important it is to develop a quality in our society to hear each other and try to understand different attitudes. You all remember the end of the last call, we were in two political sexes. But what were we able to do, and it's about one of today's changes and additions to the Law on Culture? That we have enough hearing, that Gordana Komic, as a member of the opposition ranks, presents to me her proposal to get in the electoral law the possibility that 40% of the less represented gender, or female in our country, will be on all lists of political parties participating in the elections. Of course, on the other hand, she had a good talker, and eventually all of you in parliament who voted for such a solution. It is therefore important to have as many topics as possible, sessions, forums where we will discuss the need to develop a culture of dialogue. I say, first of all, that you may hear, because we often don't hear from each other and we're in trenches, so we're all just representing our own opinions, and then when you let someone hear you for sure you'll understand. We are no longer in different political sexes, we do not agree in everything, of course, we have different political ideas and understanding of certain important issues and topics for our country, but we are both in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we are equally trying to develop a culture of dialogue and to put this into good legal norms. This time it is on the agenda to amend and supplement the Law on Culture, where I am the solutions to this law that I have proposed to the Minister's birth equality law. I call on all ministers in the government to do the same and to enable us to have 40% of women represented in the boards of directors and supervisory boards this time, and let them do so for the administrations of the boards of institutions and institutions that exist in their portfolios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8615	Replica, the word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8616	I feel the need to subdue, because in these observations I simply miss it, so I can achieve a different effect, make an impression. So, especially the topic of affirmation of the less represented sex is something that is very positive. To be very clear, we who, because of our spiritually conservative views, have some different views on gender equality, on all the issues in question, in no way would want to understand that we have a problem with the affirmation of women's rights, with the protection of women, with our attitude towards violence. On the contrary, violence is, in my deep conviction, a product of biology of culture and a product of non-food. So the inspired person can't just be violent. So, especially this aspect of women's protection on every possible basis is something that is undeniable and which should be supported in every way, in which we will be allies whether our views were left or right, whether our attitudes were more conservative or more modern. Now a little witty. When you were in two different sexes, we had another dynamic, and then when you guys got back together, we lost the sexes, we got the storks. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8617	Thank you. The speaker of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Branimir Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8618	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, through amendments to the Law on Culture and through sublegal acts, we create preconditions for the adoption of other laws, and these laws are later on and are always detailed and detailed in the regulation of certain areas of culture, and they must comply with the principles laid down in the Law on Culture, which creates legal preconditions for uniform systemic, and thus effectively regulate the entire area of culture. The amendments to this law, therefore, have far-reaching consequences for cultural policy in Serbia, the way institutions that deal with culture are the primary mission and thus the amendments to this law have a significant impact on the development of culture itself in our country. The amendments ahead will be agreed by the Law on Culture with the Law on Gender Equality and will allow for equal representation of the less represented gender in the National Council on Culture, Management Committees and Supervisory Committees, by prescribing that there must be at least 40% of members of the less-represented gender on the basis of a proposal by the Minister for Selection of the National Council for Culture that this percentage should be provided on the Supervisory Boards. When Minister Comic explained this earlier, she gave a beautiful conclusion that this is not a law on women, in fact this is a law on both men and women, especially when we speak in the field of culture and it is especially seen in the field of culture, indeed where we have a large number of women who are in jobs and in certain positions in the field of culture and I can even say that this law goes in favour of men, as a less represented sex in this area. The principle of gender equality is one of the fundamental values of modern democratic societies. It's based on the idea of the equality of human beings as members of the human community. What does that mean in practice, what does that mean in politics? This means that women and men are equally present in all areas of public life, that they have equal status, equal opportunities to exercise their rights, but also have the right to equal benefit from their results. The principle of equality comes from the fact that all human beings have the right to develop their abilities, to perfect and to realize their personal capacities and that no one has the right to prevent them from doing so, by pushing them into predetermined roles, as was the case through the history of human society, and unfortunately, even today, it is not fully exploited as a form of life. The path to equality is social acceptance of equal opportunities for men and women to participate and to control the good and resources of the community whose members are. When we look again at the reality, reality is like this and it is best described in the National Strategy for Gender Equality, that the higher the position in the institution, or the decision-making body, that is the participation of women less and that women are still rarely in the positions of executive authority. Before the end of the term of office, we have amended the electoral laws concerning the percentage of the less represented gender on the electoral lists and we have increased that quota to 40% and that has already yielded results. I must also point out a good example of my parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, where we are less represented by the male sex than 40 to 60. The fact is that up to nearly a woman, they were significantly less represented in the legislative authority, specifically in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. In many executive authorities, municipalities and cities there are no women, that's a fact. All 5% of women are in the position of the president, i.e. the president of municipalities, or mayors, and rarely find themselves in management positions in public enterprises and legal entities with great financial power and in profitable actions. Therefore, their presence grows in lower decision-making places, especially in enforcement positions without prejudice to decision-making. Experience from previous years and decades, we can say freely, has shown that the consequences of any discrimination, including gender discrimination, can be so difficult and lead to marginalisation of women most often, and especially a member of vulnerable groups and their exclusion from public and political life. Discrimination is an obstacle to equal participation in political, economic and cultural life, hinders the further progress of society, negatively affects the economy and makes it difficult to develop the full capacity and creative potential of each individual. Such data specifically states how necessary it is to regulate and strengthen women's participation at all levels at which decisions are made. The law on gender equality with which we today agree on the Cultural Law represents the one step forward and which the Social Democratic Party of Serbia has supported since the beginning and we share these values in principle. Let us not forget, the principle of equality is also declared by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in its Article 15 states that the state guarantees equality between women and men and develops a policy of equal opportunities and the provisions of Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prohibits any discrimination, either directly or indirectly, on any basis, and particularly on the basis of gender, race, other characteristics, such as nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other beliefs. The area of culture and cultural institutions in Serbia can be boasted that these are institutions where women are highly represented by the number of employees, and this is especially the case in libraries. In these institutions where women have significant participation in their work and who form these institutions and their work, it is important for women to also be in the leading places, so that this representation is in line with the standards that we represent here. When we talk about amendments to the Law on Library Action, in essence, it is an alignment with the Law on Culture concerning Elections as Director. The Law on Culture prescribed that candidates for directorship had high professional training and five years of experience. On the other hand, the Library Activity Act prescribes three years of experience and high professional training, and it is important that we agree on these criteria, so that there is no passing in practice, that competitions that are being discussed are implemented in the best possible way and that we do not leave any stain on any competition that is called. Also, the Ministry of Culture must have insight and it is important to have insight into any consent for the director of the library. Uniform standards must exist in all Serbian cities, whether in the province, in Vojvodina, whether it is Novi Sad, Belgrade, Cačak, I think standards should be the same everywhere when it comes to competitions for library directors. There is an interpretation where consent is sought which is an experience in the field of culture, perhaps it should be better specified that area, whether it means only an area of whether someone worked in cultural institutions or could involve working in some other institutions, and that someone was again engaged in culture, what about those who declare themselves free artists, whether they mean volunteer work, etc. I'll also use today's debate to look back at some events from the previous session. Simply, we witnessed in the media that attacks on the highest state officials were present. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia provides full support to all state authorities. For us, the inaccessible attacks on the president, above all, are both on the prime minister and ministers, when we talk about fighting organised crime and the mafia. The state has to show that it's stronger than any criminal and mob group. In this way, we send a clear message that it is not worth it to anyone to deal with crime, that in this way only an immeasurable damage to the stability, the future and the development of the entire country can be done. This is the only way I wanted to publicly express the position of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia on this issue and give support to the highest state leadership, when we talk about the area of fight against crime and corruption. Of course, as we support this, we will also support amendments and amendments to the laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8619	The word is made by Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8620	Thank you for your presentation. Just to answer your dilemma for five years, whether it's a five-year working experience in some culture institution or a five-year working experience in culture. You got it right. So, five years of doing some work in the field of culture, because if you said the director could be or the manager of some cultural institution, this time the libraries, just someone who worked in that system, we would have one closed circle where employees in particular in some smaller environments would spin around and know already in advance that one of them would be the director, and that doesn't mean that we would always have the best choice, we could never get at the head of a great writer, as we now have Vladimir Pistal, and I'm not giving other examples. So I think this is a much better solution, that it's people in the field of culture, so now whether to limit it to five years, or maybe someone makes a bigger career before, but it's optimal that in five years' time, it could be proven as a successful writer, or whatever he's dealing with, and that he has the ability to run an institution of culture like a library, like you said, whether it's at a republican level, a provincial level, a municipal or someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8621	Thank you, Minister. The word has the mandated representative of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, Zagorka Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8622	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, respected JS colleagues will support the law amending the Law on Culture and amending the Law on Biblical and Information Action in the day to vote. It is essential that the existing Law on Culture be brought into line with the new Law on Gender Equality recently brought into the National Assembly. Equality, not only of birth, but of equality in general, is a term that has recently permeated all social segments and relationships. Serbia as well as the entire civilised world is at all seeking that equality is no longer a goal in itself, but that it is achieved in the fullest sense and that it begins to be understood. The new provisions that will further regulate the Cultural Law will require more employees from the ranks of national minorities and members of the less-represented sex. Such and similar legal solutions provide a permanent framework that will facilitate the achievement of policies of equal opportunities that are sought. We are witnesses that throughout history the position of women, cultural creators, has changed, but that position has always been unfavourable. Even today when we have very strong anti-discrimination laws, the situation is still not entirely favourable. If one of the key cultural bearers of an artist or artist as an individual who contributes to cultural development, the woman is always in a more unfavourable position than a man. When it comes to creativity, if it is the woman who creates it is always stressed that it is female creation and I believe that we will agree that it is time to erase these differences for leaving the dominant male pattern of culture and equal treatment of women who participate in creating cultural content. When we talk about national minorities, we think, I believe that both colleagues and their representatives will agree that the current cultural policy implies the preservation and cultivation of the cultural features of all national minorities in Serbia as well as the space for one free cultural action and artistic expression. When I talk about preserving specialities, I would not only stay on these specificities of the cultures of national minorities but perhaps all areas in Serbia. It is very rare, so we can say in Europe, that a small country like ours unites so different cultural characters of the regions of individual cultures that have developed under the influence of different sometimess and even completely opposite traditions, but that diversity is our wealth. Unique Serbia supports the decentralisation of the culture of investment in cultural infrastructure in Serbia's cities, we can create a permanent base for further cultural development, but I also want to say that it is not enough. So it's not just enough to invest in institutions, but we also have to invest in people especially in young, talented artists and artists, creators that this country must recognize and support. Also, I'd like to look back at the competition, i.e. project "The Capital Culture of Serbia 2023". This is indeed one opportunity for local self-government to show their competitive advantages, it is otherwise a domestic pandan to the project "European Capital of Culture". We believe that the strategy for the development of the culture of the Republic of Serbia from 2020 to 2029 is a very important process in which the specific cultural chalk of our country is described and we can say that it has so far acted in accordance with this strategic document. It is very important to continue to cultivate and promote what is characterized as a cultural heritage and, of course, do not neglect modern creation. Speaking of cultural heritage, I would mention, if I'm not mistaken that you visited Chakova yesterday, a Romanian town where Dositej Obradović was born and we are pleased that the funds for the restoration of his house have been defined. In June 2018, I believe that many colleagues remember this, Serbia echoed the news that small graduates, i.e. The young people who finished eighth grade at that time, of course not all but the vast majority didn't know who Dositej Obradovic was, they didn't really know who it was. How will children who don't know, don't appreciate, don't understand their tradition, culture and history have the capacity to be interested, to understand and to respect something that's other people's? I can't help but look back at the very actual acquisition of something that is our cultural heritage, and that one unscrupulous addition of Nikola Tesla, it is worldly but it is primarily ours and we are witnessing that there is a group of cultural assimilation in force, but it may be his greatest recognition, which others want for themselves. However, because of some future generations, we must not agree to such a harsh end to history and counterfeiting. Once again, in the voting day, we will support the proposed legislative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8623	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Jelena Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8624	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to express my satisfaction that today we have the opportunity to talk about the laws concerning the area of culture and to thank the SPS parliamentary group for having the opportunity to speak again as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group on this subject. Dear Minister, I am pleased that you are often present in this House and that, I am sure, the discussions we are having here and the concrete proposals and actions will start and push the culture towards the pedestal on which it deserves to be and that the word culture itself in public speech and public performances of all social and political factors will be more and more often than this is the case. The amendments and additions to the Law on Culture that we are talking about today are necessary, as has already been said, in order to comply with the adopted Law on Gender Equality, while amendments to the Law on Library Information Action are necessary in order to comply with the roof law on culture that we had the opportunity to discuss three months ago. Consensus of the Law on Culture with the Law on Gender Equality in terms of increasing representation of representatives from less than 30% to 40% in the framework of the National Council for Culture of Administrative and Supervisory Committees of the Institutes of Culture is an amendment that needs to ensure more equal participation of both pains in all structures, with the view that it is important to point out that, in addition to respect for such provisions, it is necessary to choose and place individuals who, by their knowledge, expertise and integrity, absolutely and unquestionably deserve their place in the governing structures of the Constitution and the National Council, but also all other bodies relevant to the cultural system, but also society in general. From the position of women in art, society, and probably just right now in politics, I would like to point out that it is an important provision that obliges the presence of 40% less represented sex in the management structures of culture institutions, whether it is male or female, but also any other kind of provision that would ensure more equal participation in work, but also fairer evaluation of this work for both sexes. When we speak and amend the Law on Library Information Action, the change that requires five, instead of three, years of work in the field of culture as well as higher education. for future candidates for library directors, it is a good basis for a potential and quality selection of directors who could answer their competences by calling/position to which they are elected. The role of the library in the cultural system should be met by a very important role that involves describing the population, the growth of education levels and the promotion of both children, young people and adults, and therefore it is a great responsibility for the leadership to try to improve statistics on reading books in Serbia with its team within its institution. Of course, it is not all the burden on libraries and their management, but as a society, we must renew the system of values and pay attention that readers are focusing on reading better reading. Since the amendment of the Law on Culture concerns Article 16a, which sets out the way in which the National Council for Culture is elected, I would like to point out that the proposed amendments to the law are not treated both by Article 16 and by the very procedure of proposing candidates, which continues to exclude representative associations as candidates for the National Council for Culture. In the previous discussion, we discussed amendments to the Law on Culture on the subject that the motions to this kind of article of 16 do not have the obligation to include in their proposals representatives of cultural scenes that are not their employees and are left with the awareness and conscience of the promoters to include the abovementioned cultural protagonists in their proposals or not, and what we will see only when the proposals are delivered to the Minister, and consequently a list of proposals for the MPs in the National Assembly. My personal concern is the fact that the human factor can allow itself to use the option before it can and does not need the option to have to, but, of course, time will show the responsibility of the candidate for members of the National Council for Culture, this important high advisory body that we expect will make 11 magnificent and whose activity we hope soon and finally be established after a few years of failure. The activity of the Ministry of Culture and Information, your minister and your team of collaborators is what we, who, for our current function as MPs and we must, but also who I want and with great interest, are being followed, puts trust and hope that the culture will rise from the spare bench and play on the first team along with, of course, your great work and effort, but also the government's support and decision when the moment comes to prepare budget rebalance but also the next year's budget, which would increase the funding of the cultural sector at least to the level of giving in countries in the nearest environment, such as Northern Macedonia or Montenegro. In this way, it would support the recovery of cultural workers and artists from the crown of the crisis, but also further investment in culture and cultural content, as well as the creation of new consummations and raising criteria for already existing consumption of these contents. It is now the right and perhaps the last moment to think and move in this direction both in the phase of the upcoming budget rebalancing and in the phase of budget preparation for 2022. Why is it important to increase investment in culture? I would go in order: because of the man, the individual who lives from his work in the culture and art sector and the artists themselves and their basic existence; because of the artists who have overqualified themselves because of the reduced volume of artistic engagements and for the sake of existence they start to deal with and earn in other areas, which if it is not temporarily threatening, but if these individuals do not return to the artistic sphere of action, we can consider that their talents, skills and work back have been taken lightly and released into the wind for years. Investment in culture isn't something that's made of bread. It can't be seen today, maybe not tomorrow, but in a year, three, ten or twenty, it will give its results in the form of new generations of young people who will resist the globalistic impulses of blending into gray mass and that will highlight their historical and cultural authenticity. By investing in culture, we invest in higher thought, in the survival of the nation, and in the survival of our identity. Culture isn't just going to the theater, to the concert, to visit the exhibition. Culture has built the need and desire of man to consume cultural content and artistic content. Culture is a desire to practice sports, travel, learning and new experiences. Culture is work and discipline, creation, present, past and future. Certainly, economic performance is necessary in order to invest in culture, but also in other areas of social action, but we must be wise and strategically defined to approach all areas of equal strength at the same time so that time is on our side. I'm going to paraphrase Mao Cetung, who said that an army without culture is a stupid army, and a stupid army cannot defeat an enemy. What can be the strategic approach to culture and the setting of its foundations for the future? You've already talked about it yourself, Your Honor, we've discussed it on the board, but also here on the tide, which is bringing culture back to school. My personal view, which does not have to be fully quantifiable, is that cultural and artistic, sports and, of course, scientific sections are the right solution for this kind of impelementation of culture, physical culture and science to children and a small right solution for several reasons. Systemic organization of already existing and the introduction of cultural and artistic, scientific and sports sections in schools where they have not been sufficiently enough, and in some cases there are none at all, and in all 1,136 primary and 517 secondary schools, open jobs for young people, students, but also graduate educators from the sphere of culture, science, art and sports, which would be equivalent in total to enabling young people to be employed, and one of the country's priorities, opening up twenty-twenty factories from 250-300 jobs for educated and highly educated young people, thus significantly warning the brain drain that we all wish to stop as much as possible. The emphasis on opening up positions for redecorators, co-ordinators for extracurricular activities, should be on new candidates, given that teachers and teachers, because of their regular schedules, should not be able to deliver on their shoulders a quality and teaching and extracurricular programme, and if certain candidates were students, would thus also be supported by the doctrine of dual education. Of course, the largest benefit from the implementation of such a project would have an entire society in the long run, and mostly young people who, within five, six years of their knowledge, cultural level and psychophysical state, would become the critical mass that would draw the entire society towards the most developed countries with this degree of culture and knowledge. With 50m euros provided per year from the state budget, the service would provide a job for about 5,000 young and educated people in the fields of education, sports, culture and art representing commissioners, or co-ordinators of extracurricular activities. In this way, we would have generations that would allow the state to learn not only for free, but also for everyone to have equal chances of discovering and developing their talents. This would potentially create more Bikovic, Stefan Milenkovic, Nemanje Radulovic, potentially discover some new Shobajics, Veličkoviće, Pekic, Andric, who, due to their maternal relationship in the last few decades towards culture and art, have not been given the opportunity to aphirmic yet, and the wider audience to instill in the heritage the work of these undiscovered talents. We would have enriched the sports youth, potentially discovered another Novak Djokovic, Milica Mandic, who yesterday so bravely, proudly and successfully represented Serbia at the Olympic Games, Nikola Jokic, Ivana Španovic, and when it comes to scientific districts, surely to continue the tradition of victory at the Olympics of mathematics, physics and chemistry, where we kill left-handed people mostly because of the enormous enthusiasm of a small number of educators, as well as the talent that is present, but which, apart from exceptions, cannot be expressed to the extent to which this would take place in the case of these systemic solutions, which would mean inter-resorship of culture, sports and education. It's not just the introduction of cultural and artistic sections from sports to schools that are the only field in which we can operate. Since much is said and even more is working on the attempts of decentralisation of culture, which is greatly contributed by the projects "Serbian Capital of Culture", "Cities in Focus", but also by the loan for infrastructure that we have already confirmed and whose resources are already being renovated by the homes of culture throughout the country, I want to highlight again the school for musical talents in Ćupria as a kind of pearl in the Balkans, but also this part of Europe, because only two other schools in the world are working on a similar teaching concept, the Central Music School in Moscow and "Jehudi Menjuhin" in London. I happened to see once on the social network that the school of musical talent in Ćuprija had replaced a time-consuming carpentry on the facility with a single competition so that students could practice in warmer rooms. This is another reason why I believe that additional investment in the facility itself, instruments, but also the general improvement of the school's working conditions for the musical talents of the international type is necessary and that the preservation of such a pearl can raise the overall level of musical education of talented students in the country and to place the whole of Serbia on the world's music map with such a unique institution that has been operating since 1973, which has carried out on a professional, artistic path by hundreds of top musicians who have been engaged throughout the country, regions, but also as soloists of the chamber and orchestra, musicians, performers, engaged in the best ensembles. I cannot help but mention the construction of a new building of the Faculty of Music Art and a new concert hall whose realisation is planned in recent times, which will certainly contribute enormously to the general positioning of Belgrade and Serbia on the academic artistic map of Europe. As a form of cultural and sports activities, it would be necessary to support cultural and artistic societies as important cultural heritage keepers, through the view of potential inter-resorship cooperation of culture and sports, since cultural art societies in Serbia currently have registered in the APR almost 700, that about 50,000 people are engaged in folklore and that the vast majority of associations lack how funding for the realization of views, travel to festivals, costumes, but also places for uninterrupted exercise. If we go back to the topic of the country's strategic commitment to invest in its culture and identity, I would like to point out that the importance of music culture in us is potentially underestimated. If we take as an example the dozens, maybe hundreds of rock and pop bands that came from the UK in the '50s and '60s, including the Beatles and the Rollingstones, which today represent one of the brands of exactly Great Britain. With the expansion of the English music scene, the global attention they received, the entire planet learned English many years before the Internet era. From such examples, we can draw our own ideas about how, if nothing else and nothing more, through culture, art, but also sports to resist the pressures that may potentially have the deadening and paleness of the identity of our people living in the space of the first European civilization, i.e. the Vincenian culture, elapsed as many as 5,000 years ago or if we talk about the Lepensko source and 7,000 years ago. We must protect and support our cultural brands. Egzit and Guca were already established and manifestations were recognized on the international scene, but once upon a time there was a beginning that someone in such events saw a chance to present artistic achievements and then supported them. Why are competitions important for the modern creation of the Ministry of Culture? Because the area of music, theatres and art games with 95, 100 and 50 million dinars, as defined in 2021, must be reciprocally increased, such as the latest rebalancing rate just increased for film and audiovisual art from 830 to a billion and 130 million dinars. It is important for us to define greater resources for contemporary creation, whether they go from the budget or through certain loans, because of the brands that are alive, but which we must raise to the pedestal and to begin with the budgets to reach manifestations of a similar or the same character in the region. We have work to do, because we have a BEMUS event that lasts since 1968, for which in 2017 we have defined a total of 17 million dinars, representing around 145,000 euros, and the same year 2017. The Ljubljana Festival had a budget of around 2.8m euros, which was only a small chamber festival 25 years ago, with a small budget of around 100,000 euros. What is the essence of the festival is that the vision of leadership and vision and support of state and city was a decisive factor in making the Ljubljana Festival a production giant in the region. It is interesting to note that during the festival director's term of office, as many as seven or eight mayors changed and that the festival grew in quality and programme all the time. Then, we have BITEF, which for this year's edition amounts to 384,000 euros, while, let's say, Budva City Theatre had a significantly higher funding in 2016, which ranged from 400,000 to 900,000 euros. I know how difficult it is to launch any mechanism, especially one concerning the art and culture sector, because in 2012, I founded a 60-member symphony orchestra of young artists, with the desire to become one of the Serbian art factories. Over the years, it hasn't been easy. We had and we didn't have the support of institutions and the economic sector, and everything I'm saying about culture, I'm talking about as someone who goes through different challenges on a daily basis, and I want to truly use my entry into parliament as an opportunity to contribute in a way that encourages institutions to strengthen themselves, but also to strengthen the status of culture in society. There are many projects and festivals that cry out for support, but I also have to point out my personal desire to return to the cultural scene and "The Cello Fest", a festival where I have practically grown up and that for me and hundreds of other artists, but also gave thousands of visitors the opportunity to listen in Belgrade to a Misha, Gotje Kapison, Milan scale, etc. An exceptional example, to which we should walk as a vision, is certainly an example of the Jož Enescu festival in Bucharest, which in 2019 was a fantastic 11.5m-euro budget, of which 70.9% of the funds were determined by the Culture Ministry. It is important to note that around 250,000 people accompanied the Enesko Festival, while the Ljubljana festival, which I mentioned in 2017, visited more than 60,000. This basically means that the audience for this kind of cultural content exists, it's only a matter of strategic definition of society in which it will turn the sails. The Socialist Party of Serbia has always heard of the needs of culture and art and everything I have expressed in my presentation is supported by the general attitude of the SPS towards increasing investment and incentives for cultural and cultural development, and we will always support any changes and additions that can improve the status of culture and cultural workers, as well as arts and artists in society. My intensity is to initiate as much as possible all social factors that care about culture to make an even greater effort to improve the situation in society, when it comes to culture, science, sport, and, in many ways, the concern of young people, which is one of the social priorities, is constantly improving and in this context, I suggest that in addition to all modern asphalts of covered highways as soon as possible, a master plan for building perhaps the most important highway, spiritual traffic, which instead of asphaltes would be covered by theatre boards, canvas oil, book covers and miles of music partitions, rackets and networks, which, in five to ten years with culturally advanced world, would communicate with culture, new awareness, knowledge-enriched, healthy citizens of a new tradition of the enlightened Neman Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8625	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8626	I thank you personally for very often participating in the discussions when there are issues on the agenda in the fields of culture, both here and on the Committee on Culture and Information. I'm glad that at the end of your comprehensive and content exposure, you said that the SPS advocates increasing funding in the culture-related budget. I am convinced that after these words, I will have help and support from ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who are in the SPS, that we have a slightly bigger budget in the next budget than this year. But I'm extremely pleased that we made it this year, in a very difficult, demanding year, where the most resources went to the health sector, we're voting for 1.1% of the budget, which has never been so far. I think last year's budget was 0.8% of the country's total budget. I listened carefully to everything you said and to what you have instructed some large festivals in some other countries. Yeah, sure, that's nice to hear, it'd be nice to apply here. I would like a little bit of, here, when we are on the subject of dialogue, to open up a dialogue on how to finally develop, along with, of course, the investment of the state in culture, and the creative economy in the area of culture, which is to strengthen, to train all the people in this country who are engaged in culture not only relying on the elections of the country, the province or the locals, but also on taking positive examples from Europe or around the world, how big events and festivals survive, and not solely on the budget, but also creating funds. Incentives in the film, the film industry, that proved to be exactly one segment of the creative economy, because incentives, for example, for foreign investment in film activity in our country proved to be an excellent economic move, which is that foreigners who invest their resources should, therefore, distinguish between foreign and domestic productions, because foreigners come and invest certain funds, and the state gives them back some of the funds they spent on filming in Serbia, and domestically we help to survive and make films and shows. So they don't invest any funds and leave them in the state, like foreign productions do. So that's what needs to be distinguished. Here is help to keep the money in Serbia, and here is help to have a successful film industry as big and successful as we have in the last few years. Exit and Guca, you mentioned them, these are two beautiful tourist events in our country. It's not on the culture budget anymore, it's on the tourism ministry's budget. I'd just like to think a little bit about the concept of Guce. I'm not going to go into that commercial part, because Gucha must have a commercial part and bring income to the municipalities and the surrounding places, but to think about the whole concept, because there are some Italian models that are good, not to bring down that festival for two or three days, but simply for months. There is such a model that all the other smaller places participate in the music part of the festival. You mentioned amateur creation. I don't know if there is an Arsic MP, but with him, the sector of contemporary creation, with my participation, prepare and move towards the preparation of the law on amateur creation, which is indeed numerous in our country but unjustly neglected. We have a big space here to improve the situation. You've been talking content for a long time, so I've only recorded a few things to answer. As far as the National Council for Culture is concerned, you will soon receive solutions from all cultural institutions that have made their proposals. Yes, conscience and consciousness are one thing, reality is another thing, so I have no doubt that we will gain quality and that it is a good thing that after a long time we will get the National Council for Culture. My personal expectations were something different, but that is why I am here to support the Ministry of Cultural Development of the Republic of Serbia, which has gone into the initiative to form a council within them for a creative economy, which would have in itself people who deal with culture non-institutionalally, so that we can make a good balance, and as it is a republican institution of culture, I believe that this is also part of the National Council for Culture, so I hope that we will get some good and creative solutions to help the independent scene. Soon the Hilandar law awaits us, now in the form of a public debate. Next, the law on cultural heritage, the law on cinematography, audio-visual activity, and by autumn we'll start working on the law on theatre. The moment I was elected Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the Ministry of Culture and Information, I was very happy about it. I think it's a great honor to be the minister of culture and informing a country, especially Serbia, with such a rich cultural tradition, a great cultural heritage, but I didn't even dream of what was waiting for me, how much trouble there was and how badly unregulated an area that had no laws. I say, that minister must have the courage to go all the way, to try to make things right in some short term and correct everything that I find every day. I'm saying, I like that they started attacking me and calling me a variety of people that I'm talking to in my public speeches about certain subjects, because it's a sign that I'm doing something. If no one attacks you, you just wonder if you're doing anything and if you're even trying to change something in the area of culture. I see they're attacking me, so I'm on a good trip, like that famous conversation between Queen Elizabeth and Margaret Thatcher, where Queen Elizabeth was worried about whether Margaret Thatcher was in trouble, because everyone was attacking her, both left and right, and Margaret Thatcher replied that she wasn't worried at all, that she'd be worried if no one was going to attack her, because that would mean that she wasn't doing anything, that I was quoting that poet -- that she didn't break any glasses, that she didn't get her leg guessed once, etc. I'm satisfied with what I'm doing. I need public support, and I need Parliament support, believe it or not, every day when I open an object I face something illegal done during an earlier period, missed, closed eyes in front of big, big problems, anomalies, and even illegal things that I find in all possible institutions of culture, all possible objects that the culture minister should process and do. But with your help, I think we're going to do a well-organized area, and we're going to be able to devote ourselves to some nicer things, and we're really dealing with culture, not just dealing with the problems and putting out the fires that I must have found when I got in here. But, I say, I get to know the public, then I get attacked, there are some who sue me for those things that I discovered, and I say, how in our society has suddenly become the subject of the one who discovers crime and not the ones who did it? And it's something interesting and new experience, that one who discovers crime becomes the subject and target of attack, not those who are criminals and who have committed something wrong and illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8627	Thank you. Before we go any further, one notice of today's work. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8628	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Minister, Mrs Gojkovic, with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are presently two very important legal acts from the field of culture, and this is the bill on amendments to the Law on Culture and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Library Information Action. First, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and also for us to say why we put these two draft laws on the agenda of today's National Assembly session, because we have already passed the Law on Culture, this meeting, is whether and also on library-information activity. The first - law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture, in order to bring it into line with the recently passed Law on Gender Equality. That's why he's here today on the agenda. Second - Proposal for a Law on Library Information Action, in order to bring it into line with the Law on Culture, because we passed the Law on Culture, etc. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture, there are only four members, because the ministry, or the government, has proposed that they be amended and complemented and, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for our sake, to say what it is. Dear Members of the People, in Article 1. The draft law, otherwise the 16a Act on Culture, item 6, number 30 is replaced by number 40. What's this about? With this article, we note that the proposal by the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Serbia to elect the National Council for Culture should provide at least 40% of the representatives of the less-represented sex. That's why we changed the Law on Culture, that is, these changes and additions. Also, in Article 2 of the proposal, but in Article 42 of the current Law on Culture, paragraph 5, the number 30 is replaced by the number 40. What's this about? We hereby require this member to ensure that the composition of the Board of Directors of the Institute of Culture should provide at least 40% of the representatives of the less-represented sex. That's the point. Article 3 of this proposal which you have on the table and otherwise Article 46. Law item 4. - We're replacing number 30 with number 40. What did we want with this member? This article establishes the obligation that the composition of the Cultural Institution Supervisory Board should ensure that at least 40% of the representatives of the least represented sex are represented. By Article 4 of this law, we regulate in fact the time of entry into force of this law, which is the eighth day of the day of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". When it comes to this second law amending and supplementing the Law on Library Information Action, it only makes two amendments, in two members, and in Article 1 of the otherwise applicable law, paragraph 17, paragraph 6 is replaced by the words of five years. What's this about? This article determines that the director of the library is named by a person who has a high professional capacity and, at least, underlines, at least five years of working experience in culture. Please, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I stress this. So, so far there have been three years, but five years of working experience in culture and you can't choose a library director who doesn't have five years of working experience in culture, we've had these certain problems in practice, the scary ones and this law we solve, and they normally meet other conditions set out in the library statutes. However, the library statute cannot change this law, and we had it in practice, which the minister also spoke of, we had some problems. Article 2 regulates the time of entry into force of this law, which is the eighth day since the publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". Dear Minister, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will now compare what the SNS government has done in the area of culture, and what the former government is like in Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic. The SNS authorities have taken huge steps in the field of culture compared to the previous period of government of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and Djilas's political electric rabbit, Marinika Tepic. We cannot, of course, be satisfied, because we want even more and better, as the minister herself said. I'm just going to say a few capital facilities what was done during the SNS. We rescheduled, adapted the National Museum of Serbia. So the National Museum was called all the way to this convocation of the Assembly. We renamed it the National Museum of Serbia, this for the sake of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Belgrade, after 15 years, as long as this institution was closed to visitors at the time of Mr Gilas, Tadic and Jeremic's authorities. They've been laundering money for those 15 years. Secondly, we also opened the Museum of Contemporary Art in Belgrade after being closed to the public for 10 years during Djilas, Jeremic and Tadic's authorities. We have rescheduled, adapted and reconstructed other buildings where cultural goods protection facilities are located. I will list just a few for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Museum of Vuk and Dosite, the Museum of Science and Technology, the Gallery of Matica Srpske, the Museum of History of Yugoslavia, the Ethnographic Museum, Part One, and the Library of Sabac. At the Philosopher's Centre, we singled out the largest funds in the history of the centre's film industry. Let me point out, in 2020, we singled out a million and 115 thousand dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So this is very important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The film centre's budget was 50 times bigger in 2019 than during Dragan Gilas. So, not 50%, but 50 times bigger than during Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has declared 700 written and printed rare and old books from the 15th to 19th centuries, which is a long-standing and painful work of experts in both the National Library of Serbia and other institutions. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed the Law on Archival Construction and Archival Action, which has been applied since 1 February 2010. The authorities of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic have closed the National Library of Serbia, four years for visitors, so long has been a reconstruction, which has never been completed. The director of the National Library, believe it or not, but it is true, during Gilas's rule was removed because of the support he gave to the adviser of the Montenegrin Parliament's president, who said that a civilization step would be to activate explosives in Banja Luka Borik in 2012, where the highest leadership from Belgrade was at the celebration of the 20-year-old Republika Srpska. Connect events to modern things that are happening today in the environment and in our country. In the National Library of Serbia during Gilas's rule, they removed curtains, curtains dominated by Cyrillic letters according to the letters of the Miroslav Gospel, and instead, Gilas's director "shulled" without any letters. Everything that reminded of Serbian culture was removed. Dragan Gilas was never interested in the culture of Belgrade and Serbia. That's what his party colleagues and some foreign ambassadors say earlier today. Let me tell you directly what this is about. Gilas's colleague, actor Sergey Trifunovic, told Gilas in 16.6.2020, quote – Gilasu is the main weapon of money that solves everything and buys political affection. Jeremic is an untalented politician, and Djilas has ruined a culture in Belgrade, a finished quote, says counterpart Sergey Trifunovic, otherwise known as the pee. Why? Because he said he was going to pee on President Alexander Vukic's grave. If Gilas had never been interested in the culture and development of Belgrade, believe it or not, and the US Ambassador of former Cameroon Manter who said in 13.9.9, I quote -- today, Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade was only marketing, not realistic, a quote. That was also the case with regard to culture and overall development, the former US ambassador said. Nothing better than Gilas was his culture minister Predrag Markovic, who later unfortunately also served as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. While he was a culture minister, the state bought 2,616 books from the publishing house "Stubs of Culture", owned by Minister Markovic. The value of the books was a million 173 thousand 903 dinars, says the DRI, not me. In 2011, as chairman of the Gilasov-based Parliament, Markovic spent only 15 million dinars on the trip. He paid the gift painting illegally, underlining illegally, a million 664 thousand dinars without the approval of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because it had to be approved by law. On his official journey, he illegally spent 13 million in that capacity. So Gilas and his colleagues from DOS ruined culture and enriched their pockets, and SNS policy headed by Alexander Vukic is pulling it out of that situation. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is today fighting an unfavourable fight against organised crime, depicted in the tycoon-mafian, political-organised groups that are responsible for domestic and foreign implementation. The groups have only one goal, which is to create chaos in the country, to bring Alexander Vukic down from power, not the elections, but the street, not as they say from blood spills. They want to bring Serbia back to bankruptcy. Among those groups is tycoon Dragan Gilas, who in front of the president's talks in Brussels via his portal, who knows which time he attacked President Vukic by supporting the Bellivuk slayer by publishing a scandalous text through his portal in which he admitted that the criminals of Belivuk had scanned – a 100-euro gift for arresting their leader Belivuk. Gilas' portal opened its side. The respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is important even before I say the final part, allow me to say two more sentences about the National Library of Serbia, as it was destroyed for ten years, whether they believed or not in 2005 during Gilas's secretary of the valuable National Library of Serbia. Each book properly seduces the number of the National Library of Serbia. There was also the "Dubrovnik" Zbornik, printed in Split in 1866, sold believe or not, for 50 dinars. There was also a reader from whom third grade students in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia learned grammar. Look at the wonders, they also sold the 1927 "Fruskogorje moasteri", a book, but also "Serbian" from 1896. It's actually some kind of women's museum back then. There is little time today for me to list for you how many more things were removed during Gilas, Jeremic and Tadic's minister, who held Soroshe's office in the National Library, and by order of him it was all removed. Dear People's MPs, what is very important for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for our country, is that for the first time in the history of the PIO Fund, and it was formed as you know in 1992, the PIO Fund managed to pay off pensions on its own for the current month, without adding to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to pensions from working relations. The former government touched the PIO Fund in 2012 more than 40% of the budget. Our authority, led by Aleksandra Vukic, has already reduced the grant to 36% in 2016, in order to reduce the grant to 20% in 2020 from the Republic of Serbia's budget and miraculously, in June 2021, the PIO Fund itself financed, in terms of contributions from the employment relationship. What does that tell us, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? This is an indicator, a major indicator of good economic policy led by the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Ana Brnabic and the policies of President Aleksandr Vukic, both in economic terms and in terms of employment and also in taxes. Allow me, before I give the finale, to say that what is happening these days, the attack on President Vukic was unrecorded in Serbia's history. Never in Serbia's history has any ruler had more support for citizens, and more attacks than a small group, very aggressive and very rude. Let me just say a few sentences. Here, she answered again, believe it or not, Vesna Pesic, political activist Dragan Gilas. She again attacked President Vukic by lying that government officials are constantly expressing hate speech and that our understanding of politics is the destruction of opponents. The replacement of thesis is just the other way around. Well, Mrs. Pesic, it wasn't us, it was you who expressed the destruction of political opponents. You yourself, Mrs. Pesic, when it comes to President Vukic. Well, you said Mrs. Pesic on January 19th 2020, I quote – if Brnabićka resigns, you know, a lifelong Vukic is being prepared, there is no boycott, just a tube in his head, finished quote. So who's working to destroy political opponents? Vesna Pesic was thrilled that Inzko gave a law denying genocide in Srebrenica, so she says, quote - that Valentin Inzko is finally leaving BiH to raise his head because of the ban on denying genocide in Srebrenica, Serbia remains still on our bruce, the last to deny genocide. Doesn't Serbia have the elemental human sensitivity and decision never to repeat such things again? Done quote, July 25, 2021. Dear Mrs. Pesic, you have no idea what genocide is. You've been saying this for the last 15 years. How did you teach that to your students? That's a big problem. Finally, respected vice-presidents of the National Assembly, while our President Aleksandar Vukic daily makes superhuman efforts to restore our country's international reputation by implementing peace policy, security policy, solidarity policy, the health policy of all our citizens in the country and the region, the policy of a compromise, sustainable and sustainable solution for the southern Serbian province, the policy of modernising the Republic of Serbia and the policy of a free fight against organised crime, so far Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and individual intellectuals, some different analysts, charlatans have come together to try to derail every success of our economy, for the sake of cheap political problems. I hope that in the future we will achieve even greater success. Lived our economic, political and cultural success at the head of Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8629	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8630	Thank you for your presentation in the section relating to the amendments to the law, but also to the condition that we have encountered by 2012, right in the segment of culture and what has been done so far. I agree with you that today the most vocal critics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state have contributed to the collapse of culture in our country. I'm glad you reminded us how many cultural institutions during the former government, and the current parts of the opposition have been closed. Imagine how many generations in our country are left without being able to visit the National Museum and say that he is familiar with contemporary 20th - century painting, for example. which exists in the depots, but now in the permanent position of the National Museum. Has anyone praised the government of Aleksandra Vukic and Ana Brnabic for the efforts they have made to complete the work at the National Museum, of them? So to say, on the other hand, we have relevant conversators, who know they're criticizing it the right way, and they know they're confessing when they make a mistake, and someone makes it right. It must have been a national matter and a national issue that was finally to open the National Museum, to allow schools not to make excursions, as it once did by visiting some cities abroad first, then perhaps in the late years, to meet both culture and monuments of the culture of the state in which they were born and in which they live. The Museum of Contemporary Art, if we are going to talk about contemporary art, and most often there are great critics of Alexander Vukic, the President of the State and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Well, I didn't hear them say anything when the Museum of Contemporary Art was closed for 15 years? Of course, there is much more to be done, but in one great way, the Museum of Contemporary Art has drawn attention to himself by having immediately the opening of one of the largest conceptual artists in the world today, and this is certainly Marina Abramovic, who was born in Belgrade and who, at the very opening of her exhibition, said that she was Serbian and that she was Belgrade girl. Let's say what happened to the Saturday theater, which in ancient times began to be built. This government of the Republic of Serbia singles out funds and is making efforts to finally complete this important national project, which is certainly the construction of one of the largest theatres in the region, and this will certainly be a Saturday theatre. What are our further plans? The construction of a large museum, an exhibition space, such as "Storm and Light", which will be dedicated to the greatest extent of Nikola Tesla, a scientist, a Serb, whom we see today that some of our neighbours are also personalizing and trying to change his biography and his statement that he is of Serbian origin and that he is a Serb, first of all, and his family. Today is the part of trying to steal our cultural heritage and our national identity, so that someone in our area or in our own country, as has been done lately in the southern province, steals and creates some national identity. I would call on the government of the Republic of Croatia to take advantage of the opportunity, when they come to some bilateral visit, regardless of what level, to go to the Nikola Tesla Museum, here in Belgrade, and to make sure that there is a urn of Nikola Tesla, located in Belgrade, in the Republic of Serbia, its personal belongings, its personal library, its archive, is located, is all that many in the world would like to see and own, because his nephew, who, behold, was once again a Serb and Serbian origin, decided that as heir to the entire property of Nikola Tesla, had just brought them, made it possible to bring objects to Belgrade and presents to the country where we live today. So we have no evil intentions, no one. It is an honor and a pleasure to see that someone doesn't have something of their own, so reach for what Serbia has in the sphere of culture anyway, so we face that little, little someone wants Ivo Andric not to be a Nobel, a Serb, that I don't know deny the national commitment of Petra Lubarda. Here we are now being taken from Nikola Tesla, but it would be our turn to ask permission from the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people, not to try to steal national symbols behind our backs and show them as their own. So, in my best interest, I want to really invite them, and when there are some official meetings that a mandatory part of their visit to Serbia will be visited by the Nikola Tesla Museum, it may be easier for them to give up their intentions. So, the Belgrade Philharmonic Building is something that, building this building, in which the government of the Republic of Serbia is making efforts to celebrate the opening of this extremely important building in which we will listen to artists like Zubin Mehta recently, who is a person who supports the construction of the Belgrade Philharmonic Building, who recently said in a conversation with our President, Alexander Vukic, that the fact that Belgrade Philharmonic will soon receive his own building and that he will be able to be the very conductor who will participate in the opening of this important institution, the concert hall. So we also have the restoration of the Yugoslav Museum façade, which is also scheduled to end this year. We have big investments in the National Theatre, the historic museum of Serbia finally after ten years has won its building. It is a very demanding procedure, but it is important that we move in the right direction and that the aim of this Government of the Republic of Serbia is to build first and foremost the infrastructure in the area of culture. We are doing this, as you have noticed recently, speeded up in all parts of the Republic of Serbia, because the biggest and best competition the Ministry of Culture has is certainly cities in focus. I think that there should be an increase in funding, because this is the right way to get to the decentralisation of culture by enabling all of Serbia to have their own small theatres, have their galleries, have their own cultural centres and thus improve their cultural life. I say we are committed to protecting the monuments everywhere in our country. I'm saying, there'd certainly be a lot more money in our country's culture budget if it wasn't for the incredible failures of the former government. You, honourable MP Atlagic, have cited examples of the closure of the institutions of the National Library, the National Museum, the Museum of Contemporary Art for 15 years, the non-building of the Belgrade Philharmonic, the non-starting of the process rather than just talking, talking and talking, and in this sense nothing has been done. I will give an example that our public is a little familiar with, which is that famous case "Kunsttrans", of an entirely wrong contract signed by the Ministry of Culture and Information of the former authorities with this very Austrian image-keeping firm from the National Museum for many years. That contract never came true, because it turns out that the deposits are in the blue area, if I'm not mistaken, so it was written in the case, and somehow magically that power forgot to break this contract ever. Of course, Kunsttrans sued our state and international arbitration, MP Atlagic, this is how the verdict reads that we recently had to pay a billion and 700m euros to the firm for what it never did and never broke a contract with it. On the other hand, if I'm not mistaken, it's a million and 114,000 euros of interest we also had to pay to the prosecutor, or to this firm, and 639,000 euros were only legal expenses. Let's just calculate for all these billions of interest, chief, the costs of their lawyers and all that, how much we could do for culture across Serbia. Now, that was their concern for culture, and it was that ease, if you don't do something right, miss, ruin the country, so never mind, we'll never mention it again, I guess somebody's gonna forget about it. But these are the amounts that this government and this government had to pay for, because the judicial verdicts came to bear, and the continuity of the state exists no matter who is in power. So, as far as I'm concerned, these kind of failures, I sincerely hope not, because I have no intention of spending my culture and my culture budget on damages on various missed projects and contracts that we found when we took over the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8631	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Since there are no more authorised representatives, we're moving on to the speaker list. The word has a folk letter from Prof. Dr. Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8632	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we have two draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Culture and Library Information Action. When it comes to the amendments themselves, they are not large, as we could hear in the statements of both the rapporteur and the previous speakers, but they are, I believe, very significant, since in the case of amendments to the Law on Culture in the Plan, the alignment with the Law on Gender Equality is found in certain segments in the segment of the obligation to set a percentage, in this case instead of 30% of 40% of the members of the less-represented sex is found in certain segments. What's very important to point out here is the fact that whenever we mention a less dimmed sex, we usually think it's women, and there seems to be a sector where it's going to be the other way around, so even men will be represented in relation to what it is now. However, I'm not sure, since in particular these very precise provisions apply to boards of directors and supervisors, one of the previous speakers said that we have a lot of women in culture, but we don't have them in other areas of action, I'm not sure we have them on boards and boards, so I think this will be very important, that in the institutions of culture through the boards of directors we have 40% less represented half, so whoever it is. In fact, the up-to-dateness of you, Minister, and the entire ministry also shows your activity. It has just recently been passed the Law on Gender Equality, and you have found it appropriate that the components that apply to your ministry actually do so. I think the other ministers, or the rest of the departments, should go your way. I think that in certain segments we would just actually see what the situation is, that if those 40% quotas were set to have a kind of balanced participation, without any hint, normally, that only someone who represents a particular sex should be chosen at all costs, regardless of their professional and other qualifications. That should certainly be in mind. What's important when we talk about culture itself is that the Culture Act is like a basic law that treats a very important sphere of human life, because we said that culture is a very broad concept in practice and that if we wanted to define this concept, with all the attempts and professional definitions of this term, we could say in the broadest sense that culture is a relationship to life, to all life, to our own, and to the lives of other people in our direct and further communication, to nature, to natural resources, to all human beings. In this sense, it is very important that on this very important, painful path we are aware of the importance and above all our responsibilities in creating the very relationship to the culture of life, behavior, cultural patterns in general. You mentioned two very important projects that the Ministry of Culture and Information intends to implement. So, the issue of culture in the media and the issue of inter-religious dialogue are certainly projects that can contribute greatly, because the whole public discourse, but perhaps most of all media are in need to promote through different content a culture of respect for another, different, different, different values, and there seems to be less and less today. Generally, we can talk globally about devaluation of culture in all fields, in this domain and in this field. On the other hand, it is very important because of the responsibility towards younger generations, because children today are not, unfortunately, at the opportunity of all the models of life offered through the digitalisation process and may be somewhere more in a virtual world than they used to be, so we are obliged to present to them the question of the importance of culture, not only through cultural content and cultural heritage, because it is only a part or segment of culture, but through a whole form, a cultural pattern and way of treating others and others. The question of the culture of minority communities and peoples is also something that is very important, and it is a kind of grace, an advantage, that in one country, in one society you have so many different peoples and minority communities and they need to be given space, both through media public representation and through help, specifically the local ministry. Because we talk very often about finances, how often they are missing for some projects, and unfortunately sometimes it is necessary that those people at the local level act, and the supervisory role of the ministry itself is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8633	Thank you. The time foreseen for the parliamentary group has been spent. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8634	I have no problem with the laws on culture, I have a problem with the Law on Gender Equality and the problem with the rule of the Serbian Progressive Party. We are speaking here in this law on conditions for the appointment of directors of cultural institutions, and it is generally known that throughout Serbia, all verticals and horizontals, where the SNS government, especially at the local site, directors of public enterprises, are often persons in a state of duty. So, famous V.D. The situation is used to keep these people under party control, because if they are insubordination it is easy to remove them, while when you choose them as directors, then you can only replace them for the reasons provided. On the other hand, when we mention 40% of the less-represented sex in these laws we come to the point of reminding ourselves of the Law on Gender Equality as a product of gender ideology, and gender ideology is one form of radical feminism and we have no problem with radical feminism, it is like all extremisms are brutally sincere, but we have a problem with that Brussels feminism that is always hypocritical of these social issues, as well as of the observation of the borders of states, where they say that the borders of the state in Europe are harmless, but the borders of Serbia are not. Also, when they're talking about 40% of the less represented sex, they're referring to the female sex, but there's no question of how we're going to apply this, say, in mining caves, where there's a lot more male sex, how we're going to apply it to municipal companies in the waste disposal teams, whether we're going to be doing this express, ideological, experimental intervention, and ask that 40% of the less represented sex be involved. So it's a hypocrisy that doesn't want to look at social reality, it doesn't want to accept archetype roles and gender as a biological definition of both male and female, it wants to play with genders, it wants to play with subjective feelings, that someone can feel like a woman by noon as a man, and society has to respect all of that, even if they legally depict their environment with such abnormal demands. Why does the political west know that? He chose capital between people and capital. The capital is bothered by the family as a solidarity community, he is bothered by men and women in his archetype role, as people who seek their existence and purpose of life not in consumption, but in other values. It's okay for them and as their choice, but it's not right to impose on us. I am surprised by the SNS, which has a lot of people who think the same way I do, but do not have the strength to oppose the small number of well-placed foreign influence agents who are working to ensure that the jenderisation and gestation of Serbia is implemented to the end. In addition to these problems, I will return to the Law on Gender Equality, because it is the hub of our problems in this regard. To remind me that gender is not an objectively scientificly established category, that it is not a constitutional category, in our Constitution we are talking about half, even in these legislative proposals we are talking about a less represented gender rather than a less represented gender, because the legislator, i.e. the bill promoter, like anyone rational in dealing with rational social problems, sees that gender is completely unnecessary, but in order to meet the requirements of lobbys from the European Union, we had to introduce the Law on Gender Equality. Otherwise, that it is an unconstitutional category, when we talk about gender, has also confirmed in his opinion the High Council of the judiciary. That native language is ideological intervention and language violence also confirmed by the Department of Language of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. So there were a lot of signals that it was wrong and now there are procedures before the Constitutional Court that are being led to prove the unconstitutional nature of this Law on Gender Equality, and we rushed to intervene in our other laws. To be fair, there is no such thing in these proposals, because here we are talking about a less represented sex, so that these laws on culture will not be struck by the Constitutional Court's decision, if the Constitutional Court ever wakes up, and decides to defend the Constitution of this country, but it is necessary to say that it should stop the embezzlement of all our legal frameworks of an unconstitutional law, a law that is subject to abnormal ideology from the European Union, and it is called the Law on Gender Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8635	The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8636	Thank you. There are various solutions in Europe and in the world that are appointed or elected by the director of a cultural institution. I was recently in the French Republic, and just days after the announcement of the President of the Republic of France, Mr. McCron, who are the leaders of the Luvr Museum, I don't know what changes they were, don't take my word for it, it's important that he sets them directly, there are no competitions, there are no government decisions. Now you will say – of course, because of their way of functioning and the authority that their president's name, but I just want to say that their public did not have different ways of thinking and attacking President McCron, which, according to his choice, has decided that at the head of the culture institution they should be a certain person, but well, that's the maturity of their society that when someone is or has a certain authority, they should be responsible for their actions, but that they have both powers and use them. Luckily, I'm a culture minister or a politician who thinks that in a leading resort he should introduce order. I don't think I've been called, damaged by what you said about cultural institutions taking people to V.D. condition. As far as I'm concerned, as far as the Republic institutions of culture are concerned, if you follow what's happened in the last eight months, there are fewer. A lot of people have changed because their mandates are up. Some have been changed because there have been problems in the management of their cultural institutions, which they have been silent about for several years, until I've discovered to the public what's been going on, and some I'm ready when the audits that are now being carried out to talk about what's going on. But mostly, they've been replaced, they're no longer at the head of these facilities, they're other people. Most importantly, after a few months of V.D. The competitions have already been called, they are participating in competitions, some have already been chosen by this route, and by the end of the year I think almost all institutions of the culture of the Republic of Serbia will be in a regular four-year term. It is my goal to do and to know that someone who runs an institution of culture has a clear mandate for four years, to see what and how he will manage these important national resources. As for the Law on Gender Equality, it seems to me that the language issue lies before the Constitutional Court, not the whole law. You correct me if I'm wrong, because I haven't followed so much, I can see that there was the most controversy about the language part, that is, the obligation and the penalties that follow from that. But my duty, as minister, when the parliament of the Republic of Serbia adopts one law, is to bring the law into line in my portfolio and this refers to the percentage of the less represented gender in certain boards of directors and supervisors. At the top of the cultural sites in the Republic is about half-and-half male and female. I'm more of an advocate not to follow it so much than who's better at competition and who's a better professional or who has better plans to run a culture facility, should pass whether it's a man or a woman. We have examples from a long time ago, because we had the first woman, for example, the director Soja Jovanovic with fantastic movies that are seen and hopefully in this age, "Pop Cira and Pop Spira", "The Road around the world for 80 Days", and so some things, a woman who really deserved the greatest recognitions. Then, during World War II, famous actress Žanka Stokic, who I think, if Belgrade doesn't have a monument, then should certainly build her a monument. Not to mention new generations, where we have certain painters, chefs, musicians or musicians, actors, actresses, directors, directors, whatever, but to call them we have to respect them because they are women who leave a mark in our culture and, of course, at this time will leave a mark for some future generations. I think what I did today has changed one or two members, in fact a guideline of how the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia should behave. When one roof law is passed, we all have to follow certain members of those laws, change them in our area, so that the laws and roof laws that are being passed here will come alive and get their real implementation. So, my recommendation is to have more gender representation or gender representation, whatever you want, in all the boards of directors and supervisors in the state. I'm saying, it's unusual that the head of the culture facility was and there were plenty of women, this time we're talking about women, and there were fewer in the boards of directors. It's some anomaly I've noticed. Now I've got all the boards of directors and boards in line with the letter of the law that you've recently adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8637	I thank the Minister of Culture. The word is Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8638	Dear Minister, we have also had certain ideas conflicts and do not belong to the same political options, however, following your work I have an obligation to commend for the decentralisation of cultural life in Serbia, especially your visits to municipalities as was the visit of the Municipality of Arangelovac, where you supported the people who lead the survey "Mermerni and Sounds". It means something to us as a municipality. As far as SNS is concerned, it's such a big party that it contains both good and wrong processes, so I, when I thought about the directors in V.D. I've been thinking more about people at the level of local self-government and that's the problem. Regarding the legal requirements of the Constitutional Court, there are more requirements, one of them is related to the unconstitutional concept of gender since, as you know, in our Constitution there is the notion of gender and, as I see it, you have in your law insisted more on it than is the concept of gender itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8639	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8640	Just as information to you that the abandoned summer house castle in the park in Arangelovac is also included in the list of castles and villas that will be presented to French experts who will arrive in September in the Republic of Serbia and who will help us to realize the revitalisation of such objects that Serbia, believe it or not, has 118, and who have no intention and all as monuments of culture are in an extremely poor condition.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8641	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8642	The esteemed chairman, Mrs Gojkovic, with a co-worker, distinguished ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens, will simply remind me that we are also changing the Law on Library Information Action and I will highlight this informational action, as it is part of this law as well. I'll remind you of one important thing and of the public interest to learn some important facts. So fascism is also unculture. Violence is unculture. Crime is unculture. You just talked about crime yourself 20 minutes ago, and I'd lean on it and it's important. So, I'm simply going to talk about large-scale and invasive illegalities in information activities and information activities, since it is ultimately in the jurisdiction of your ministry and information. So, first one example of this illegal information cooperation and information, this is an example of KRIK's co-operation with the Belivuk clan of 10 March 2021. At that time KRIK followed the son of the President of the Republic and announced, imagine, the sensation of the following content that the son of the President of the Republic is sitting in a cafe, drinking juice and watching the game. That's when it happened that day that KRIK was working with the Belivuk clan. It's something else now, it's in this action. Otherwise, one and the same, and this was determined by the investigation, one and the same corrupt police officers were reporting to KRIK the location of the son of the President of the Republic and reporting other information on the Belivuk clan itself. The connection is clear. In March 2021, Nenad Markovic, the father of Strahinja Markovic, one of the victims of the Belivuk clan, witnessed this unusual relationship. Nenad Markovic, the father of the Belivuk clan, says: “One evening my phone rang, an unknown number. “ He said: “A man has introduced himself as Veliko Belivuk. I didn't know who he was, he said they checked everything alive and nobody knew anything about the Scarecrow. He asked me... “ means Belivuk “... to publish everything in the media, he referred us to KRIK, so we exchanged the information, where we gave the statements. “ At the question of journalists – whether Veljko Belivuk had confidence in KRIK, the father of the victim Nenad Markovic answers – Yes. Marinika Tepic in that light, at that time, already in March, 9th of the KRIK procedure, these are the information links, amounts of falsehood, and she stands by the Belivuk clan and connects irrevocably and says: "We have learned how the Belivuk clan was made. Support for KRIK and Stvan Dojcinovic. “ And I will remind you, a few weeks before her statement on Twitter was arrested by the Belivuk clan. I think so much of the excess of her statements. Now we see, therefore, the information links between Gilas' party, KRIK and the Belivuk clan. The Belivuk clan is the military wing of the mafia that has its political and media wing again, and all three of the mafia's wings are informative, informative and very unculturally co-operated, and have similar methods and connections. I would like to point out the links between these three wings of the mafia: firstly, in killing, secondly, in ideology and thirdly, in advocating violence in politics, so they advocate lustration, fascism, retribution, threats to violent change of government. We remember the threat of hanging, rape and violence in practice just attacked the institution, it's an institution of culture on RTS, two years ago and last year we had an attack on the Serbian Parliament. Marinika Tepic, it's also from the cultural field and it's terrible because it's a video that was presented to the public the other day. It speaks clearly of a uniting bundle, and it repeatedly repeats it in that video. I'll remind you that the hatchet with the axe is a symbol of Italian fascism. Let's remember again that these protests were worn in January 2019, and that was precisely in the terraces where the German Nazis hanged Serb patriots. They're announcing a snowflake merger. They say -- that united beam unites against Alexander Vukic. Simply, I'll tell you, the Italian and Latin words "fascio", i.e. "fasce" and that snooze's termology was taken over by Benito Mussolini in time before the second world work, and the Romanian fascists also had the same ideology. Now the marines Ciubanus hivacu continues that tradition of snobs. On the occasion of these informative illegalities and the transcripts of the KRIK, the UMS announced on July 23rd that it was opposed to the KRIK editor's decision, that statements from the investigation of the suspects for the serious murders and torture presented to readers as uninstructed, as the UMS said also made the newspaper "Nova" on its front page. Now also from this informative work. There's bisignal stuff here. I will analyse the interview by Jovana Gligorijević, who is a big name in Gilas' journalism, which has brought out a few shocking things, informative and informative in his interview. She said -- hypocrisy is when KRIK attacks, when Veljko Belivuk's claim is announced or that KRIK editor Stefan Dojcinovic met with lawyer Belivuk, Jovana Gligorijević said. What's shocking about that? Shockingly, Jovana Gligorijević, journalist "Time", practically the main journalist in the sphere and in the list "Time" confirms that Stefan Dojcinović KRIK was meeting with the Belivuk clan these days. As a result, Belivuk's lawyers unlawfully gave KRIK transcripts from the hearing, which is again part of this informational illegality. In doing so, KRIK additionally polished the lies from the transcripts Belivuk and Miljkovic, and in addition journalist Gligorijević says and that is very important of her testimony, says – journalists have the legitimate right to sit with the black devil if they are to receive information that is in the public interest. I'll also tell you something about this public interest. Imagine now that journalists interviewed the accused Nazis and slaughterers in Nirmberg in 1945, 1946, and their lawyers and then placed those lies as true? No one in their right mind would expect the black devil, so the slayer, the murderer and the cannibal, to get information that's in the public interest. So, Jovana Gligorijević, unspeakably trusts the Belivuk clan. For what? On the other hand, as far as this public interest is concerned, which is why all these Gilasovic journalists and the media have never asked Gilas for seven years, so these are hundreds of journalists and one 30 Gilasovic media who have never asked Gilasa why he tortured and beat up his ex-wife and her parents, and why did he threaten his ex-wife's death? It's in the public interest that she finds out. If anyone says they're not, I'd like to hear one more explanation. So, Jovana Gligorijević asks whether a press statement should be published, she says, "Yes, if it outweighs public interest." Again, neither she nor her "Time" list nor one of the 30 Gilasov media has seen public interest in publishing statements from the police of Gilas's ex-wife and her parents, nor have they ever asked Gilas why he tortured and beat his ex-wife and threatened to cut her head off. Is it in the public interest to fight thugs who have serious domestic violence? Well, of course it is. And why has it never been done in these seven years? Again, as for those terrible videos from Srebrenica, Jovana Gligorijević said he again imposed public interest on it. Then comes the question - and why is the public interest not requiring pictures of the victims of the Belivuk-Zicer clan? It's warranted, so it's shown. It's a series of cases of hypocrisy. Now Gligorijevic says more – all these things about the Belivuk clan should be examined, but that the problem here is that there is no one to examine. First, that's not true. And secondly, the same question applies to Gilas’ family violence. So someone's got to wonder. Someone wonders why Gilas wasn't prosecuted for those 619m euros. Here's the answer - it's not even processed because of its domestic violence. So, all three victims gave evidence at the police station. What's been done for these seven years? And then don't be surprised that nothing has been done about the robbery of these 619m euros. Jovana Gligorijevic, also at the end of his interview, is equating, which is shocking, and this Assembly, therefore, state and mafia. So both the police and the Assembly and the prosecution and the court are equating with criminals and says this: when it comes to politicians and criminals, we absolutely need to be skeptical. Answers the question of who should be trusted. So she evens out politicians and criminals. So I would really stand up to it, because no one in their right mind will even it out, the mafia and the politicians. I know the interest of politicians may not be popular, but no one in their right mind should claim that we are mobsters. As preparation looks, it is also an example of illegality in the information and information sphere. So, the transcript that's been published as a counter transcript of KRIK, we have two transcripts. So it's a transcript that talks about the preparation for lying to consilers, butchers and butchers and which testifies that the transcript that KRIK published is untrue. So, it's simply a transcript of Belivuk's and Miljkovic's lawyer, Dejan Lazarevic's talks with those two butchers, so as the first transcript, which is additionally updated, contains all of the hundredth lies, we need to hear this as well. So Marko Miljkovic tells his lawyer consiler: "We should let it go public, agree, cause a public reaction, and after that story, which I will aimly place, for the KRIK is crying for. He can't wait to publish all this." The lawyer says: “You were so involved, that it was all a system, a state, and that you worked in agreement, and Miljkovic says, "I will make up that we met with Vukic. Well, we met with him regularly. Who says we haven't met." I'll cut that part short. Then the lawyer talks to Belivuk and says, "Consilier, it's all arranged. We'll say, "You know you've been seeing him on a regular basis." “ Belovuk says: “Yes, brother. That's what we're gonna do. We'll also say that we had the tape, but they took my sketch, so the footage, like, was erased, so now I don't have the footage, and I had it. The lawyer says: “Yes, yes. And to further cloud it, we will say that we may still have the footage, that we have recorded some of it." Belivuk says: “Great. That's how we'll do it in KRIK necessarily." We today on 28.07. have absolute confirmation that this conversation that was recorded, this second transcript, is true because all the Gilasov parties, the media and lawyers are asking to determine whether the transcripts that I have listed are illegal. Well, maybe they did, maybe they didn't, we don't know, and maybe those first transcripts were recorded and carried out illegally. Who knows? But what's visible from this is that no one question the truthfulness of what I've just stated, of this conversation. This transcript, i.e. this conversation clearly proves that the contents of Belivuk and Miljkovic's statements were made in progress, so that was July 5th, an absolute fake, and thus the KRIK transcript that KRIK, I said, was further working, and published. Gilasovski media has been on the seventh day, and it lasts continuously since last Thursday, promoting murderers and murderers, and this information-informative sphere is completely overcrowded with it, and by the command of last Thursday, everyone, one 30 media has published these Belivuk's hallucinogenic lies as if they were the Holy Scriptures, as if they were true. The public's interest is to know that the Belivuk-Zvicer clan has two portfolios. One is Vladimir Vuletic, who founded the party Crno on white for their purposes, while the other is spokeswoman Marinika Tepic. There are at least three parties representing the Belivuk clan. So that's Black to White, SP and People's Party, and six days ago, and that's another proof of the links of all of these, their support for the Belivuk clan has been presented by Marinika and Gilas in a statement entitled - Now it's clear why the state hasn't responded to, for years, how they represent him, the Great Trouble, so they beat him. Gilas's party, who is now representing the Belivuk-Zvicer clan, takes for granted Belivuk's hallucinogenic inventions. Gilas and Marinika, as we can see, are experienced politicians and yet unreservedly believe both Belivuk and Miljkovic, and this is proof of what I have been saying for months – the SAA is the political wing of the armed wing, i.e. the mafia clan Belivuk – Zvicer. To finish with Ivan Gligorijevic. She had something right in her interview. So, when it comes to commenting on the timely publication of pictures of killed members of the Earth clan, Jovan Gligorijević said – I think we have progressed civilizationally. That's right, that's right. Unlike 2003, which was neither civilized nor fair, nor decent in the period of DOS and DS, Serbia is today a civilized and just society, and thus a decent society and this society judges mobsters and does not kill them. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8643	The word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8644	The Culture Act, which has been applied since 2010, with a series of sublegal acts stemming from it, has created preconditions for a uniform, systematic and effective regulation of the entire area of culture. The amendments and additions to the Culture Act that we adopted in early May of this year aimed to improve the law, and thus to improve the functioning of public institutions of culture. These changes concern, for example, the adoption of the budget for the next year before the end of the current fiscal year, which allows for a good dynamic. Then, unification of the number of board members. In fact, the new law has significantly regulated the composition of the boards of directors, which has contributed to the lack of the charms that were present, especially in the smaller environments, when the old law allowed the board to have at least three members, so some boards had three and some five, and some, perhaps more. It is now specified that there must be five members and I believe that this equation is important. In addition, the Management Board is an institution where for a particular national minority of particular importance, other than five members, they now have one member from the National Minority Council. One of the papers that have brought amendments and additions to the Culture Act that we adopted in May this year is that a person with a higher education and five years of working experience in culture is appointed as the director of a cultural institution, instead of three years of work experience, as previously foreseen. As today’s amendments and additions to the Law on Culture are still before us, they concern the alignment of this law with the Law on Gender Equality. The amendments relate to members of the law defining women's participation in national councils of national minorities, as well as to the boards of directors and supervisory boards. So instead of 30% of the less represented sex, there must be 40 percent less represented gender, and these are mostly women. Since the development of a society is not possible without respect for the principle of gender equality, I believe this change will contribute to a more uniform decision-making of women and men. Although in the last few years, the number of women in politics, in places of decision, has grown, is still not satisfactory. The number of women in decision-making places also contributes as an instrument, thanks to which women are candidate, visible and active in public and political life. In fact, 40% of women, as a less represented sex, at decision-making sites, are not yet essential equality, but it is one step towards it. As regards the Law on Library Information Activity, it is a normative framework that enables the development of library-information work, the progress of libraries in a professional way, as well as the protection and security of libraries in an institutional sense. The amendment to the law that we are talking about today concerns the obligation to comply with this law with the Law on Culture. More specifically, the amendment of the Law on Library and Information Action refers to a part of the law which regulates the conditions for selecting a library director. In this way, in future, Article 17. The law on bobliotetic-information activity will be clearly defined to appoint a person with a higher education and at least five years of working experience in culture instead of three, as far as it has been so far. We from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia support the amendments to the laws mentioned and hope that their application will be consistent. I would like to point out this opportunity for culture institutions in smaller environments to face the problem of hiring professional personnel indefinitely. Although a ban on employment has been withdrawn and up to 70% of the number of workers who have left work for retirement or some other reason, due to a small total number of employees, continue to face practical problems and cannot employ new workers indefinitely. In small areas, this is a special problem, because often professional personnel are needed, especially museum personnel, who have to come from other places or from large personnel. If they cannot get a job indefinitely, such candidates are unable or reluctant to take risks and costs resulting from working elsewhere, as this often involves moving and separating from the family. This situation puts museums as an institution of culture in smaller environments in a more unfavourable position than similar institutions in large cities. I hope that the ministry will have the understanding and demonstrate once again its commitment to the even preservation and promotion of culture in Serbia. Small shifts in the quality of work of cultural institutions in smaller areas result in an over-average impact in the community and therefore I believe that any form of assistance that the Ministry can provide is of multiple benefit. I will take this opportunity to highlight the support of the Ministry of Culture and Information, which through significant financial means supports the work of cultural institutions and their programmes in the municipality of Prepolje, where I come from. It is about traditional events and programmes, as well as projects that cultivate the culture and tradition of Bosniaks. There are also significant funds for the digitisation of cinemas, home of culture, where Prepolje was among the ten municipalities for which these funds were allocated. The funds are significant and received in the "Towns in Focus" contest, and that is what should be commended. I would also single out the support of the Ministry of Culture and Information at the Prepolje museum of 600,000 dinars for the purchase of two significant works of art, which has increased and enriched the museum collection. This is the first time the Ministry has allocated funds for this purpose to the Prepolje Museum and I hope that this co-operation will continue to benefit the citizens of Prepolje, as well as all those Serbian citizens who are able to visit Prepolje and the Prepolje Museum. There are also 430,000 dinars financed by the Ministry as a whole by the project "Religious opinion and practice of the population of Prepolje and the environment", where the team of ethnologists will conduct ethnological research. There is the possibility that the Ministry will finance another significant project concerning the development of journalism in the municipality of Prepolje about 90 years since the first newspaper appeared, when the first issue of the "Sandzak" was released on February 1st, 1932, whose publisher and publicist was Milivoje Zugic. For the citizens of Prijepolje, the ministry's support in the restoration of the library's library "Vuk Karadzic" is also of great importance. My Precessors who like to read and use other library services will have the opportunity to reach the latest and most powerful headlines. The Pre-Political Library is an example of good work and governance and I hope the Ministry will continue with this kind of support. I believe that you understand how valuable it is for all book lovers, students, even intellectuals, when in a small environment like Prepolje municipality, they can come to not only the most powerful headlines, but all the significant titles they need for education and work at all. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the laws we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8645	Thank you. Mr. Djordje Kosanić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8646	Thank you. Dear Minister Gojkovic, with a co-worker from the ministry, respected Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is present today the two draft laws, the first to amend the Law on Culture and the second to amend the Law on Library Information Action and the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group in the day of voting will support the aforementioned drafts of the law. At the very beginning, my presentation will focus on the proposal for a law on culture and concrete changes concerning this bill provide for less gender representation at the very beginning with 40% in the National Council on Culture, Administrative and Supervisory Committees, cultural institutions, which is the founder of both the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province and units of local self-government. Practically, gender equality in the field of culture covers equal freedom of cultural and artistic creation, and on the other hand equal access to cultural goods and cultural content, equal opportunity to show and develop talent in artistic and cultural creation, equal participation in competitions for projects of culture and art, and equal participation in competitions for awards awarded in the field of culture and art. When it comes to gender equality in the field of public information, the amendments refer to Article 44 and are practically forbidden to express hatred and disdain for both women and men, but also to public advocate and support and treatment based on prejudices, customs and other social patterns of conduct, which are based on the idea of authority, or subordination both male and female, and what is important for means of public information, that they are obliged to use a natively sensitive language when reporting. Now, Minister, what I couldn't get around today is a strategy for Serbia's development from 2020 to 2029. It is practically a basic and strategic document of the cultural policy of the Republic of Serbia that regulates public interest in the fields of culture and sets strategic priorities for cultural development over the next ten-year period. Minister, some reference when we talk about culture now, first of all when we talk about theatre life, Belgrade has the most intense theatre life, then Novi Sad, on the other hand, Subotica, Nis, Kragujevac, and that represents about 60% of the Serbian theatre. On the other hand, three symphony orchestras operate in the field of music creation in the Republic of Serbia: Belgrade Philharmonic, the Vojvodian Symphony Orchestra in Novi Sad, as well as the Low Symphony Orchestra, and you, Minister, know that I come from Kragujevac, you are well aware that the Kragujevac Symphony Orchestra is functioning under the Kragujevac Music Centre, but it is not the only one. So, the City Chamber Choir "Liceum", the City Chamber Orchestra "Slezinger", then the Kragujeva academic orchestra "Cordeonist", the City Youth Choir and the City Children's Choir. Also, Minister, what I really cannot get around here, and when we talk about the Strategy, something that seems to me to be very important in the Strategy, is co-operation between culture and education. I can give a good example that in 2018, in Kragujevac they recognized this synergism between culture and education. In 2018, the Memorandum of Cooperation between the City of Kragujevac and all primary and secondary schools was signed. I would also like to say here that in Kragujevac, you know that, based on this strategy, the plan will be adopted during this year, the development of the town of Kragujevac from 2021 to 2025. At the very end when we talk about culture, Minister, it is very important that the project that your ministry brought, which is the project and to commend at the end of the project - the capital of Serbian culture in 2023... The project, I think, is modelled by the European capital of Serbia's European project and, more importantly, it relies on decentralisation of cultural Serbia. Each of the local self-government should recognise the importance of this project and be well positioned, both in the cultural sky of Serbia and in the tourist sky of Serbia, but it seems to me, not only in the cultural and tourist skies of Serbia, but much wider, throughout the region. What I want to say at the very end is that the parliamentary group in the voting day will support both of the draft laws that I was talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8647	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8648	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Gojkovic and her associate, on the agenda of the National Assembly there is a culture. For me and for you continuity of five years. Today's occasion, two draft laws, amending and supplementing the Law on Culture and the Law on Library Information Action. Before an analysis of the overall content of these draft laws, I would refer first to culture, to its importance for the progress and development of a society, that is, our society. It's always time for culture. Culture is a process, a choice of socialization of individuals, a way of life, a factor of integration of diversity, the preservation of old and the creation of new, perhaps the most powerful relationship is actually between the past and the future. It is, above all, the preservation of the valuable features and cultural traces of one nation, as well as the universal cultural values of humanity that are created by the pervasion of all cultures. That is why we generally view culture as both national and general, supranational, or universal, category that erases borders and brings peoples closer to certain patterns of behavior and creating different cultural values that are respected and respected and can become the value of all humanity. An example of this is, above all, our cultural monuments, our monasterys of medieval Serbia, which are included on the world cultural heritage list under the protection of UNESCO - Studenica, Stari Ras, Sopoćani, Gracanica, Pećka Patriarchija, Bogrodica Ljeviška, High Decani and not to mention. On UNESCO's list of immaterial heritage there is both Serbian fame and wheel, as our national game. An example of the universality of culture is our White Angel Fresco from the Millesev monastery, which the whole world knows about because the first satellite video transmission via the Telstar satellite contained a fresco called White Angel. It was the first satellite TV welcome to Europe America. So the cultural treasure of Serbia and the Serbian people is of invaluable value and has enriched the cultural creation of the whole world. That's why every nation, and we first and foremost have an obligation to preserve the seals of our history, our culture, our creation, because that's how we identify ourselves as a unique national culture on the world's cultural map. As a people, we can be proud that the ancestors of many centuries left us material and spiritual responsibilities by which we were recognized at the universal world level. No one can take that away from us as much as there is such a tendency. Some would certainly want to take away the continuity of our country that has been incessantly existed for more than 10 centuries. It was called Raška or Serbia, whether it's Dusan's empire or today's modern Serbia, it exists for 10 centuries and it's an irrefutable fact. Culture is an important sociological definition and the need of every man, above all, as a social being. It is a feeling of well-being, a spiritual fulfillment of our personality that can choose and identify itself for cultural content and symbols, for patterns, and finally for individuals. What is the essential role of culture as a base of socialization is to create and promote real and traditional values, to affirm the contents that contribute to positive socialization, as well as to sport where we have special pleasure these days, where national role models are now Novak Djokovic, young Milica Mandić. We were all so happy yesterday. One is the world's best tennis player. Young Milica is the most trophy, I think, Serbian athlete, with two gold. All this contributes to the prosperity of a person, a community, because such two young men, and there are more, but simply not to count, are a good example for our children. When it comes to culture and cultural policy, the role of institutions and prominent individuals, above all, cultural creators who represent a desirable social pattern, is enormous. Here I return to this example of positive influence, first Novak, and then all of our young athletes, who at the moment have determined that they will be engaged in this very sport, because they wish that, like basketball players, one day they would be welcomed and appear on the balcony of the Old Court. True, it's not always easy for some to watch so many consecutive victories and so many trophies, first of all, that Novak of ours, the title of the best athlete of all time, the world's greatest tennis player and that they know he's a Serb. But we were lucky, and the problem was theirs. He is a Serb who loves his country, as was Nikola Tesla. I can't not mention Nikola Tesla today for many reasons, ours, but the world scientist he knows celebrates the entire planet, because the well-being of his unrepeated inventions is being used by the entire modern civilization. Two weeks ago, on July 10th, it was 165 years since Tesla was born. Maybe we should have been louder, bolder, more appropriate, to mark this jubilee. Tesla isn't just a scientist after all. Tesla is a role model, a world voice scientist who hasn't been born yet. We must say out loud that Tesla is ours. He has his origins and he was extremely proud of his origins. Some would like to adopt it. They're full of newspapers these days and this cartoon that we have a chance to see. However, he is a Serb, wherever he was born, and was born in Smiljan, a place in Lica, the then military province where Serbs have kept the Habsburg monarchy from the incursion of the Ottoman Empire for centuries. He was born the son of an Orthodox Serbian priest, Milutin Tesla. Just because everyone looks at Tesla doesn't mean they can change his nationality. It is someone's desire to take our history in the absence of its own, and Serbia seems to have never been exposed to this kidnapping again. That might be the easiest word I can use. If I were to be milder, then I would say that at the very least it can be called a lack of culture of communication or a lack of measure of truth. Let's go back to our cultural scene and the cultural offer that we still spend mainly on electronic media, written media, social networks, the Internet, virtually, and anything can be found there. Maybe culture is a low-level dialogue, I'd say, is also due to Kovid, but some things are simply inadmissible. Not to mention the inadmissible vocabulary and hate speech. The scenes that we are offered in the middle of the day through some programs that underage children are watching and as much as we've all been prone to this critical review, and often in this room, sense is clearly talked about some realistic programs, I just don't know if even they could at some point be an example of this – this is not who you should be. It's a shame if young people start to use it as a model of behavior or get idols out of it. It's not a great cover of some type of written media. More and more, we read the news of some of our young scientists, researchers, talents. Not to speak that language of hate and tolerance, of accusations, of judgments. They rain from everyone and everyone, mostly from the incompetent and incompetent. Content on social networks on which our children are daily, and it's practically a good bait, if I went ahead to list and this up to here doesn't sound very optimistic. What's more fascinating to me is that sometimes I'm amazed and when I see all the messages that send some public figures over their social networks, first of all, they're often people from the world of culture and information, then you ask yourself, who's really modeling a culture of behavior and dialogue if they're not people from the world of culture? Unfortunately, we have a recent example of a public figure using such a language on social networks that, and the dictionary, I am personally ashamed to read it, let alone quote it, and then the question is, who can such people represent a cultural pattern? It's a lot to think about every day about the culture of behavior, the politeness, what it was, where it was lost and what exactly happened. What can he say to the insults of a young man who can read them on Instagram, Facebook or Twitter profile of someone who may have been nice and interesting to him by yesterday? Is that how he's going to start thinking or is he going to be disappointed with someone he thought until yesterday that he should be a role model to him as a cultural creator or some other public figure? Does that make any sense? Is there an end to all this and where, above all, is the personal responsibility of every public figure who dared to join and participate in public life in any way? Sometimes in socialism as a society of culture work, it was defined as an upgrade of personality, as the basic need of every man as a social being. It also defines the role of society, i.e. the state, to preserve and transfer traditional and cultural values through cultural policies and influences the formation and meeting of cultural needs of individuals and groups, but also the formation of cultural patterns and attitudes that are considered positive and desirable sociological values, attitudes that are prosperous and confirm that we are absolutely culturally developed society. The role of the media is almost crucial in the formation of values of especially young generations who are more exposed to the media and their influence today and somehow in this room we talk about every time and when we have REM on the agenda, whether the report on the work of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media or the selection of members, which recently happened. They have a legal obligation, among other things, to control the implementation of public interest in the field of electronic media and to improve the quality of media services. To return to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture refers to the composition of the National Council for Culture in which the less represented half-hour representation will be 40% in accordance with the Law on Gender Equality, which we adopted some time ago and which also contains this anti-discrimination measure. There is no dilemma that it was to expect you, Mrs Gojkovic, to intervene very quickly on the subject because you are one of the women who was, I would say, the initiator and so epochal changes between 30% and 40% of women. We've done it in politics. It's a good thing he's here. With culture, they say, according to some unofficial data to a good degree, we can consider men to be a less represented sex, that more women actually do culture, let me put it that way. Yesterday we had on the Committee on Culture perhaps one dilemma – what about the bodies that have three members and how will it be satisfied on a percentage basis? But I personally think that mathematically – one will be less represented sex. True, then that means, rough math, 33% percent, but it's certainly more than 30%, which was the drive of this change. I have no doubt that the Ministry of Culture, when proposing the composition of the National Council for Culture, will now make sure that everything is represented properly and that this change is indeed, as much as it has been seen as such, not only of a legal and technical nature. It is a step forward, again a significant step forward above all in providing opportunities for a less represented sex, and even let it be confirmed that in culture it may be men, that they participate in creating and implementing primarily cultural policies in the realisation of national and local goals of cultural development, in preserving and promoting our valuable cultural heritage. This change is the continuity and politics of this government and the National Assembly that this level of equality among half simply raises even more in all segments of social life. I said, that's where culture was just a natural clue. Today, when on many sides of the environment, especially from Albanians with KIM, we get messages that our cultural treasure is not really ours but ours, that our historical personalities and our scientists and many creators are not really ours, it is very important who will lead and manage our institutions of culture. In addition to the more adequate gender representation, in our culture institutions, which we truly advocate, the expertise and commitment of cultural creators and culture institutions in the care and preservation of our cultural tradition and artistic creation that is degraded and does not diminish Serbia's importance on the cultural map of Europe and the world. I would have a lot more to say when it comes to culture and everything Serbia is ever facing these days, somehow seems to me the most prominent, but I will end up because of my distinguished colleague, Dunja Simonović Bratić, who will talk after me and who will talk more about the amendments and additions to the Law on Library-Information Action, which I also find very important, because libraries are institutions of culture, museums, galleries, guardians of an invaluable value of written heritage and modern written words that confirm the great and indisputable talent of our people and the people who live with us. Although we live in the era of digital technologies today, that written word is important and something we must never leave or leave. I would really like to go back to the right book, such as the authorised SPS representative, Jelena Mihajlovic said in her presentation, the SPS MPs would be pleased to support the amendments to both proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8649	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8650	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, today is a Law on Culture, and with us is Ms. Gojkovic. Mrs. Gojkovic, I, whether I wanted it or not, remember you from some completely different association, because for some other time, I suppose, and naturally, in this House, you spent two terms, as much as my knowledge and memory serves me, I don't remember anyone being president of Parliament in two terms except you. Why am I saying that? You are an association for everything that has happened in some previous period in this House. You are someone who has suffered even serious violence, defending the reputation of this institution, and you are, in fact, the personification of what happened when the then parliamentary opposition sat in this distinguished parliament, and today, on the street and when they tried to destroy the reputation of this institution and the damage to this country. That's exactly what we're looking at today, when it comes to the President of the Republic. Of course, it was then, but today these same people are focusing their attacks on the president of the state. The attacks on the president of the country are a personification of the attack on the Republic of Serbia. Same people, same actors. You are, and we remember you from that period, Madam Minister, as a strong and bold fighter for the reputation of this Parliament and this institution, and that is exactly what you are expected of when it comes to the position you are now in. A firm stand and defense of what actually makes the essence of our people and our nation. There is an anecdote before, already told many times, it has never been officially confirmed, nor is there a historical basis, when the German "students" stormed into Britain, seeking funding for the UK's defence, some ministers in the government suggested that they reduce funds for culture, and he said - so if we don't defend culture, then what are we going to defend? It is never historically confirmed and it remains, as an anecdote, but also as an incentive for those who do jobs like you today, who defend culture, which again I say, is the essence and essence of the existence of a nation, or a nation. In fact, don't forget, you are definitely coming to the head of this ministry and announcing one of these parts and you have announced this law earlier and here it is today before us. The look, short and small, but very, very important and essential content. However, what encourages me, I have to go a little bit and go back, is also an increase in funding, when it comes to budget funds for culture. This year, I'm sorry if I'm wrong, by 15% to 20% higher in relation to previous years, but what I'm particularly looking forward to, which has been followed by an increase in these funds in percentages by the same percentages of that part of the funds that are aimed at funding our societies in the region, all those who are dealing with protecting the culture of our people in the region. We talked about it a little and today, and you've done a lot of talking about this topic and my colleagues, through the discussions about Nikola Tesla, through discussions about Andric, but there are a lot of these things, including Selimović and Shantic, because in the last days there are serious intentions that Shantic, i.e. Its creation relativates and descends into some of the so-called Bosnian-Herzegovic frameworks. Once again we mention from this place, Shantic is a Serbian creator, whose creation belongs to all of us who live in this space. Dear Minister, on the way I'd really like to welcome what you're doing when it comes to co-operation with institutions in the region. And what you do to visits in Romania, and what you do when it comes to Gradiška, where recently you and representatives of the institutions of Republika Srpska have opened an exhibition of paintings by painters Milic of the Sword, and that is the right way to preserve the culture of the cultural heritage of our people in general. However, I must point out, the SPC is one of the greatest guardians of identity and the most important guardians of the identity and cultural heritage of the Serbian heritage. You know, and I'm going to remind you of last year's event from Montenegro, where SPC and its believers have suffered serious blows, and the bottom line is just trying to steal the identity and cultural heritage of the Serb people in Montenegro. It is good that you as the Ministry and Government in Belgrade have shown a completely different approach. We certainly welcome the fact that in the previous days you have respected the demands of the patriarch of the Serbian, his sanctity of Porphyri, when it comes to the Law on Cultural Heritage and observed all those objections when it comes to the SPC, that is, the draft law on cultural heritage. This speaks of one fundamentally different approach between this country and many countries in the region, because, do not forget the SPC individually is the largest owner of the spiritual movement and immovable cultural heritage of this people. Please also apply these principles when it comes to other churches and religious communities and show democracy and the society of Serbia and the Serbian people, in general. You've talked a little bit today about infrastructure. I have noted that 350 million dinars for cultural infrastructure have been allocated for this year and I can say that in one way, you may have stolen the topic I wanted to talk about, and it is the National Theatre in Subotica. You said everything I wanted to say. I ask you on behalf of the citizens of northern Serbia to continue in this business to complete the construction of the National Theatre in Subotica, where the city and the mayor will certainly be your faithful partner. It's one of the decade-old things that we inherited from those who destroyed cultural institutions, as is the case with the National Theatre in Subotica or at least closed them down, as is the case in other parts of Serbia, and about helping our people's cultural institutions in the region, not to mention. All in all, so that I don't owe it and that some time will remain for my colleagues, the Honorable Minister, in front of you and the President of the State is certainly a difficult job. Since this anecdote in Churchill and his response, when it comes to the defense of Britain, is not historically confirmed, there is a historically confirmed data. On this day, Austria declared war on Serbia in 1914, following an ultimatum published on July 23rd, on the same date that another new Austrian Inzko made an ultimate decision at this time to the Serbian people and Serbia decided to defend itself on today. May that time and those people who defended Serbia at that time be a guide and a standard of how to defend together with the president of the state and the Serbian people and the Serbian state today, and within that, the core of what is the Serbian people, its culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8651	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Just one piece of information for tomorrow. Given what I said, the Olympics, tomorrow on the second RTS programme, will be a meeting of the Assembly between 16:00 and 18:00 hours, and the rest will be on channel 3. We're moving on. The word is Dunja Simonović Bratić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8653	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly with Associates, Honorable Minister Komic, today I speak, of course, as an MP for the SPS, but also as founder of the Happy Stojanovic Foundation and as someone who personally and familyly seeks to participate in cultural life and to make some contribution. So my discussion will be about the impact of culture and this part of the library and these laws that we're making today. Our colleagues have outlined the details, you have today had one comprehensive analysis of all these changes and in this context, and also because of the time left, I will look back at a little broader context regarding books, i.e. library and culture users. We have been witnessing lately the monstrous crimes committed by some young people to other young people, whose common denominator is a fan. We can't help but wonder if such horrors would happen if these same young people were members of one of our libraries, would they go that way and do what they did? The question is seemingly rhetorical, but it hides something much deeper, and that's what we've become and what we value and inherit? We who are parents, and we are fortunate to have both women and men's children, have a big dilemma about whether our male child will be a fan, and this is how successful, and the female child is a esteemed starlet, or whether our children will be nerds. And this "prima facie" looks like a rhetorical question, but in our society, nerds are seen with sneer, with ridicule, almost with regrets being found - what is it going to waste time on seeing these with bought diplomas as successful, beautiful and smart. Who else is crazy about going to the reading room or the library, or even more crazy about having a library membership card? If we're to be realistic, the books don't speak, they don't sketch, they don't scream, they don't have silicone supplements, they don't have tattoos, they don't have cover, they're not in the pattern of Louis Witton brand. If there's a popular public debate, here's a proposal for one. How many books and titles does a child in a certain age, and that's for the debate we're talking about, should he read or read to him in order to love the written word, besides this aggressive technological cacaphony? If we look into the future, we should have asked questions like this yesterday. What can we do now as a society if we know that the finale of a reality program watched three and a half million of our citizens? Burning books wasn't a Nazi invention. The bookmaker existed from the beginning. One of the most famous librarians happened in the famous Alexander library when Christianity defeated paganism. Some brave men have saved something. This led to the Renaissance, the spiritual liberation of mankind. Then people and books burned, but over their ashes a new world was created. Being a librarian was a life - threatening profession. The bookkeepers were rebels, revolutionaries, heretics. Who were the people who preserved, say, the so-called Kumran manuscripts, as well as the Arab philosophers who preserved the writings of Greek philosophers? The founders of European civilization, not to say Western democracy. Who now remembers Averyes and Avicene when he talks about democracy in Europe? Whoever tried to enslave us sent his experts to the Balkans, southern Slovenia and Byzantium. A large number of University professors from Vienna and Berlin were harassed in military uniforms and abducted from our treasury and library, and then, after doing the job, they dropped bombs on that same library. The biggest challenge of our cultural diplomacy is returning old manuscripts to the Matrix. As the Gospel of Miroslav will receive its page, I want to believe that other valuable manuscripts will return home. In light of the 26th Prosperity of military redistributory Operation Storm, or in Serbian, the banishment of 250,000 Serbs from their houses and from their country and the killings of over 1200 civilians and about 600 soldiers by Croatian defenders, I appeal to the highest state authorities to establish itself with a culture of memories that we possess another important institution, because it has also symbolically been kidnapped through a cultural storm. In 1950, the Leksicographic Institute of SFRY, an institution based in Zagreb, was founded, with Serbian academics most worked for it. For a long time, the intellectual charter discussed the formation of a Serbian lexiographic institute, including some failed and unfortunate attempts. The Lexicographic Institute of Serbia would be the crown of our aspirations to show by knowledge and culture that we are worthy of our mental ancestors. It would be a place for young researchers and respected professors to meet. The Croatian state is most proud of Krleža, and according to it, the Croatian Lexicographic Institute today bears a name. Let's keep in mind that Franjo Tudjman worked in it for a while. They were professional and systematic to us, almost lexicographic. So we don't have room for excuses anymore and it's time to save our memories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8654	Thank you. The word is Predrag Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8655	Thank you, National Assembly President, Mr. Dacic. Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed citizens who follow this transmission, the topic of culture is much wider than it may ever seem. We often talk about how not spending enough money on culture, because we have some obstacles to needs, but we can definitely ask ourselves a question -- can a modern, advanced, civilized state function without investing in culture? When we talk about investing in culture, we have to keep in mind and in mind that mostly cultural MPs are enthusiasts, people who do their job mostly out of love, but even that love must be supported by once material goods, because it costs, and the paper on which the most beautiful songs are printed, cost staphelias, cost sound carriers, and help them to represent us adequately in the world so that they can educate our new generations and leave behind some seal of generations to whom we belong. What makes me particularly happy, and which, among other things, is that I am proud to be a member of the Parliament in this particular assembly and this very parliamentary group bearing the name of our President Alexander Vukic, is that, for the first time in the last three decades, our cultural policy has its own national omen. What does that mean? You have seen the hysteria in the self-called liberal media, which is mostly financed from abroad, some of which are registered abroad and there pay taxes, what hysteria is, and what a salvo of attack and disapproval actually caused our country's move when it erected a monument to the founder of Serbian statehood Stefan Nemanja. Don't be surprised, and don't think it was just one point where they, as usual, objected and called in a word to attack everything President Vukic does. There are deeper reasons. After three decades, or nearly three decades of wandering along the post-Yugoslav impasses, the Serbian state finally gets its benevolent, national, and at the same time a civil omen, just as it is registered in our Constitution. It is written in our Constitution that the state of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and of all citizens who live here and we are jealous of it. You see through the expenditures that this country has on a number of different levels, I come from the territory of the AP Vojvodina and I know how much is allocated to the province level, how much is set aside at the level of local self-government for the needs of our fellow citizens' national communities, which as their native language use some other language, not Serbian, and which have another ethnic origin. We are jealous of this because we want to help our fellow citizens, our neighbours, our friends, our brothers and Russians, and the Bunjevs, and the Gorans and Vlases who do not have their own national states and who are actually the national state of Serbia, because no one cares about them so much and no one invests as much in their culture as the state of Serbia is investing. You can ask them that and they'll tell you that. We are trying to help maximise the building of cultural capacities and our fellow citizens of Roma nationalities that are numerous, which are already integrated into our society, but which should certainly be helped to demonstrate more adequately everything their rich culture owns, to institutionalise it, formalise it as necessary, but we also do so with members of all other peoples and national communities, ethnic communities, who live here, our friends, neighbors and our brothers, who, according to Prime Minister Viktor Orban, have the highest rights in the world in Serbia, if we exclude Hungary. It should serve us honor and pride. To honor both the descendants and Nemnjević, and before them Vlasimirovic and after them and Karadjordjevic, and Obrenovic, and Petrovic, it can also serve us that we today have a responsible national culture that is not ashamed to say who we are, where we are from and where we go, and who is not ashamed to say that we as descendants of these dynastys, that we as descendants of these heroes can proudly raise the monument of each of them. It is a shame that the Serbian people in their Serbian capital, Belgrade, had no monument to Stefan Nemanja until recently. Now, those injustices are being corrected today, which is what I'm proud of. It's a shame we didn't have a monument to high Stefan until recently in Belgrade, and it's even more embarrassing that we have one part of our public, one part of the media, one part of the political parties, which behave inconclusively. Look, I honestly believe in democracy and I don't mind if someone opposes my position, that someone is against the party's position in power or that someone is against the position of the coalition that governs this country, but I do mind when someone is against the state, I have a problem with when someone is against the state. You can't keep attacking everything this government does just because that government does. You can't keep hoping, demand outside intervention to be a worse situation here, to make the situation worse in the state of Serbia, and all by the system that's up in Vucic, it's worse in Serbia or worse in Serbia, it's worse in Serbia, and that's better for them, better for that part of the opposition that behaves certainly not only in state. I grew up in one town, which is relatively small, called the Tower of West Bacakh, I know how much these cities as the Tower meant, for example, every institution of culture. For example, the library, the municipality library in Kula, has always been a gathering of the city's intellectual elite. I know how hard it must have been for that city when, by one accident, more than ten years ago, that library burned down and how hard it was for her to recover to get the book fund back, to get that elite back, whether, around that library, it was forming and returning to the same place. We've had one major crisis of the state, I'd say, with that unfortunate reform of the judiciary over ten years ago, and we know, now I'm not going to talk about, let me say, legal or legalistic perspectives and aspects of that problem, but a sociological one. By abolishing courts across Serbia, by abolishing what were municipal courts, the problem has also been created that one place has been abolished, one Nucleus that has been gathering intellectuals from those backgrounds. They were judges, court presidents, lawyers, prosecutors who were the elite of society. In this way they were forced to leave these smaller environments and to go into larger environments which, of course, damaged the environments from which they left, because it is very difficult and it takes a lot of time for you to build an intellectual who decided to live in a smaller environment and who should be representative of the intellectual elite to lead that society and that community. That's why it's important to invest in libraries, in reading rooms. Although we live in the era of the Internet, even though libraries and reading rooms and how they can be and these regulations will be further digitized, it is important that the government of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic works well for the last few years to invest and that we understand that there is a deeper sociological phenomenon. The more we invest in reading rooms and libraries, the easier it will be to strengthen existing elites in smaller environments, the easier it will be for intellectuals to stay in those environments and it will be easier for those smaller environments to survive. We are constantly talking about this, and we are facing a phenomenon that is not only characteristic of Serbia, but of Europe as a whole, which is that less environments die, that villages die, that those environments that are not close to key highways have fewer chances of success and survival. This is one way to help strengthen these local intellectual elites. This is one way to help less environments fully or in the majority of their capacity to prevent their majorisation, namely to prevent us from getting into a situation or in a position for a year or a decade to only have two or three major centres in the state of Serbia, and everything else to be either a large dormitory or less empty. When we talk about national culture, we need to be aware of what impact the educational system has on raising younger generations. We had several decades of communist dictatorship during the second Yugoslavia, which had the principle of building a cult of personality Joseph Broz Tito and which absolutely did not deal with the construction of Serbian patriotism, but pushed him aside and pushed him. Then we were in the 1990s and after October 5th one cacophony, where we had everything, just not working on youth education in the direction that they too realize what it really means to be a member of the Serbian people and why they should be proud of it. It has often been intertwined from autoschuvinism entering our institutions to bar nationalism. Both approaches are harmful. Autoschuvinism for that, of course, is obviously making you hate and despise your own people, and bar nationalism for making fun of, in fact, your patriotism and what you belong to. Now we finally have one cultural strategy, one national strategy. The monument to Stefan Nemania is not only a symbol that will, behold, be interesting to tourists, although I see that it is interesting to tourists and whenever I pass there I see strangers taking pictures, that they are delighted with how impressive he looks, and how not when one of the greatest artists of the world today from Russia has practiced him. What I notice and what I see is that it is a symbol of Belgrade's finally becoming a Serbian capital again today. Belgrade has been a Yugoslav capital for too long and Belgrade has lost its Serbian omen. Belgrade has talked about Belgrade in one of its talks as a Serbian nursery where all Serbs, wherever they live, view it as a lighthouse. He, unfortunately, turned that light off and became a Yugoslav tricolor, who was ashamed of her Serbian roots, looking at them as unrarely as something retrograde, reverse, primitive, rural, because it was rurally common to this earlier inadequate, incorrect and wrong adjective – reverse, wrong, retrograde. You know, the moment we were forced into it, which happened a few decades ago, that the outsiders were something we should be ashamed of, and that everything that comes from abroad is something we should admire and that if you use as many strangers as possible, you're actually smarter and more educated in front of others, and you're thus proving your intellectual capacity, that moment we entered into a serious national crisis, which has only culminated in the 1990s and continued, of course, with poor elections after 2000. In 2012, we cut it off. If someone thinks it's easy to cut it, if someone thinks we can just reverse the wheel of history and undo everything that's been happening to us in the last few decades in just eight or nine years, they're wrong. But we're working on it. We're part of this project and we should be proud of it. Each of us should be proud of it when he returns to his midst. I am proud that my Novi Sad, Serbia's Athens, is today in the fullest sense of that word, which is a city that serves the pride of all its citizens, regardless of the national omens, which absolutely no one feels bad there, and yet truly becomes a Serbian cultural capital, a capital for a complete Serbian factor, wherever Serbs live, feel good when they come to Novi Sad. It didn't fall out of the sky and it's not an accident. This is due to the master's direction given by President Aleksandar Vukic, who is well followed by Mayor Milos Vukevic in Novi Sad himself. I think we need to talk more to younger generations, that we need to get closer to them, that we don't need to feel alienated when we talk to them, and we don't understand each other very well, because we didn't understand the older generations when they talked to them in the first place. We must be aware that, as our grandparents and grandmothers were a strange mobile phone, and we easily used it, and those old mobile phones that could serve as cold weapons, but we considered them a great technological advance, and as they were strange to us at the time, they don't understand it as easily as we understand it, that today and we're strange to those born after 1995, for example, because they see the world differently, they see time differently, they see phenomena differently. It's normal and it's not for judgment and we don't have to act fancy and retreat to some balcony and talk about what this youth is doing, it's terrible and it's ugly. It's not. It's part of the time. But we need them to fit in to understand and realize that what they're doing is they have to be an integral part of the national culture of ethnos to which they belong, the people they belong. Just because you know foreign languages doesn't mean you're not a good enough Serb or that you should be ashamed of your heart. Here, look at Djokovic, for example. He's not ashamed of the heart. He was offered when he started his career, and we can think of it, and the Swiss, and the Americans, and the French and the British, a bunch of money to go over to play for them, just to accept their flag, he could get millions of dollars. He didn't want to. He didn't do it. And I appreciate those people. And those people should be our role model. These people should be the role models of our younger generations. They're talented kids. They just need to be approached in an adequate way. It's not wrong either "Instagram", or "Tic-tock", or "Youtube", or "Facebook" in itself, it's part of modern culture and that's why we need to digitize and move on. We just need to get close enough to them, tell them on these platforms they can find some educational, quality content, not just those that are superficial, because the Internet is like fire or water – a good servant and a very bad master. There's a lot you can find. You can use it through applications that some judges of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade defend until the moment the FBI falls into the seat of that same application, I'm talking about "Skaja", and don't close it and then those same judges of the Court of Appeal are constantly criticising and attacking our MUP for calling those who used these applications for the worst possible crimes. But I won't talk about them now. I'm not going to say the name of that Court of Appeal on purpose, because I know he enjoys attention when his name is mentioned in the highest home in this country, so let him suffer a little because I won't mention his last name. Our national policy, when it comes to culture, must and should remain patriotic, should have its own intellectual premise and must never allow itself to be commercialized. Why do I say that? You cannot love your people and your country out of interest. That's why it's important that Belgrade, as Serbia's generator, as the largest, most powerful centre, with the greatest potential, with a lot of patriotism, with very many quality people who have come here, whether born, whether adults have now come to work, that's least important, but who are here in the same place, can channel their energy adequately, unite it and direct it in one direction, to be one strength, one Serbian energy that will make the Serbian capital again. May he also have his cosmopolitan character, and he should have, and I'm glad he has it, and you see it by street names, you see it by the names of the restaurant, and by various names, from the kitchens you can find in Belgrade to strangers who always satisfactorily come here to have a good time and to see something. And he should have that character, of course. Being a patriot doesn't mean being exclusive, doesn't mean being xenophoban. On the contrary, being a patriot means being familiar with your culture and being open to meeting other cultures, but not so much that you would thus never betray or forget your culture. Being a Serb ethnic makes me nothing at first or worse than others. The fact that I'm a Serb and I'm aware of my identity as a national says that I'm aware of my background, that I'm aware of my great-grandfather and the one on the father's side who died in World War II in the fight against fascism and the one on my mother's side who ran over Albania and broke through the Thessaloniki front. That means I'll never bow my head in front of others and say I'm a member of the genocide people. It means that I will never bow my head and say that I'm ashamed to have Stefan Nemanja, and more or less everyone else in the environment would give ugly money to have Stefan Nemanja, that they don't have to invent some kind of tomb and some kind of file. I don't want to mention who's doing it. We don't have to falsify history, we have a very adequate, concrete and clear history. We don't have to be ashamed of our past, we have to be proud of it. And while we're doing it and doing it, we have to have a proper method. What President Aleksandar Vukic is doing and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing is a proper method. In an adequate way, self - education first, and then perform in front of others as well. That is why I keep mentioning Belgrade, because Belgrade is the headquarters of our culture, the headquarters of our policy, the headquarters of our economy, and that is why it is important to return to its roots, and I believe that it can do so. Belgrade serves and should serve the pride of all its citizens. He should serve pride and all Serbs wherever they live and that is his specificity. Because we all have our own town of origin or the city where we live, but Belgrade is the city of all of us, all of us Serbs, because he is the capital of the Serbian people, because he is the lighthouse in which we should look again. And I sincerely hope that according to these reforms that we now have from the field of culture, we will be able to turn that tricolor from the lighthouse of Belgrade again, so that it will no longer be blue-white-red, but to be red-blue-white again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8656	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8657	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't mind the weakly represented half of the board of directors being 40% on the board. How exactly is that going to be calculated I don't know, but I'm afraid that these special regulations are actually disrupting the equality of citizens. Usually you think of women. I don't mind being 100% female in certain organs. We are a country where the prime minister is a woman, we are a country where almost half of the women's ministers are in, we are a country where the President of the Parliament has recently been a woman or a president to be born equal, we are a country where the governor of the NBS women are. She says she's a governor, not a governor, so I say governor of women. I don't mind being in all areas not 40, 100% women, but I'm afraid we're passing laws only for functions, 40% being in the board of directors, in the council, in the government, in the ministries, etc. What about some typical women's professions and male occupations? Let's just say, why don't we get a prescription for 40% of nurses being less represented sex? So how would hospitals work? Whenever I go to a hospital or a health care facility, it's usually a nurse woman or a female. But, my God, let it be as modern times bring, so be it. Today, someone mentioned that on today, Austria declared war on Serbia. That was very rude of them. In that war, they committed genocide in the Sword. The first thing they did was kill the Sword. We had an enemy soldier who later became our leader, divided a great nation into six, that great state that was created in 1914. He who stormed against the creation of a great, multiethnic state later captured and divided that country into six others, and God brought me with these provinces by about eight. It is so when a people who have forgotten their past are condemned to repeat themselves, or what Churchill has said – that history repeats itself and always costs us more and more. Yes, on today, Austro-Hungarian announced that this culturally alleged people had declared war against the uncultural Serbs because the multiethnic organisation "Young Bosnia" in Sarajevo killed a great hunter Ferdinand, who killed not know how many savages. They didn't kill him in the hemp, in the hunting grounds in Vienna, they killed him in the territory where they lived. He was killed by Gabriel Princip. He was in my opinion a member of a multiethnic organisation called "Young Bosnia". Yes, that's why they declared war on us. But, look, there was an ultimatum before that. Today whoever mentioned the declaration of war did not mention the ultimatum. The finalum was, Mr. Martinovic, July 23rd. On the same day, Valentin Icko passed the law, imposed the law, as it is said, on banning genocide in Srebrenica. One man passed the law. It's probably cultural in Austro-Hungarian. It was a turkey that worked, a turkey was some Earth deputy in 1914, and this was just a deputy, it wasn't earthly, it was, it seemed divine, as soon as he gave himself the right to even contrary to Dayton, break the Dayton Agreement and pass a law on the ban on the denial of genocide. The Austrian forgot they killed the entire Sword. After the war broke out, they killed the whole Sword, liquidated everything that moved and failed to escape, killed everyone. Then, the same one that caused the death of 1,264,000 Serbs or almost 30% of the population gave itself the right to prohibit the denial of genocide by law, etc. History seems to repeat itself by them. I hope that we will be smart enough to avoid some of his traps, to avoid the traps of those who are always on the outside endangering us physically, territorially, however you like, that we will avoid the traps and from these internal ones that help them and it is obvious that the media dealing with citizen reporting and intelligence, especially those Luxembourgian in every way want to... It's not the government. It's the state. I have convinced Mr Martinovic for three years that these foreign media that have made noise and noise will lead to a situation that we cannot translate them into law, that they are registered in Luxenburg, that they are not broadcasting the programme, and that they are allegedly re-emitting it here. And, now, my God, since they're against power they're independent, right, they're opposition media not independent, so now if we apply some law or REM law, then that's the problem, like choking freedom of the media etc. It's not about freedom of the media, it's not about choking the media, it's about Solak's business and Gilas's company. That's more than clear, there can be no re-emission without broadcasting, that's what the laws say. The convention on cross-border televisions says so. I warned you that they wouldn't... that by means that they've illegally acquired, because they don't re-emission the program, they're broadcasting it. They broadcast Serbian commercials, if you're foreign television, then according to the Advertising Act, you have no right to advertise. I hope that these ladies or less-represented sex, if they are men, will do their jobs more zealously in the Ministry of Culture, i.e. try to as the Ministry of Labour Oversight over the work of REM, which should take care of electronic media, to manage to bring these media to law enforcement. They emit 200,000 seconds per day, which is only 2 euros per year at 400,000 euros, at an annual level of 150m euros that are illegally taken. Domestic media are registered in Serbia, paying everything to REM, Ratel, etc. But legally, they use the marketing market. They can broadcast commercials. Foreign media doesn't register, they don't pay anyone anything, but that's why they can only broadcast ads that are the original part of the program, there's no ending, no changing and inserting additional ads. Which means commercials going to Luxembourg can be broadcast to Serbia if they broadcast to the general public in Luxembourg. Since there is no broadcasting in Luxembourg, the question arises who gave them the right to take part of the marketing that is intended for domestic media, which is registered and payable? Domestic media pays for copyright. Copyright belongs to culture. There are various authors, performers, etc. Then the domestic media who pay for it are left without half the cookies that Solak and Gilas take from them, and on the other hand, those who don't pay for anything steal half of the marketing market. Those copyrights don't pay anybody anything. You can't even sue those media because they'll answer your complaint, and I have such a copy here, that they can't be sued because they're not registered as media service providers in Serbia, which is true. That's true, they're not registered, but they're broadcasting a programme in Serbia. No re-emissions without broadcasts. Cross-border television, the word itself says, it's television across the border. When someone tells you from N1 TV that Nikola Radisic is a correspondent of N1 television from Luxembourg, remember, a correspondent there, how is he a correspondent if they are registered in Luxembourg? These here are correspondents, and he's a journalist of that and that media in Luxembourg. As a result, he received the Duke's award from Luxembourg, Nikola Radisic, a foreign correspondent, or N1 TV correspondent in Luxembourg. He can't be a foreign correspondent in Luxembourg. They can be foreign correspondents here, however, they've messed it up, the attack on the president of the Republic, the police ministers, the MPs, the head of the parliamentary group, well, it gives them the right to get some alibi of responsibility, or amnesty, they can't respond, because, my God, they're free, independent media. They're actually opposition media who lie. So that we don't complain to Luxembourg, they find some research organizations out there, and now suddenly they're using their initial news, so, like, it's not their news, but they took it over, and then they hit the President of the Republic, hit the Assembly, hit the government. Most of the time, they're not responding to anything, and in doing so, they get the enormous money that lies on their account in Luxembourg and Switzerland. They pay their televisions, they have over 30 cross-border channels whose owners are, they buy re-emissions, they cut profits, they throw out revenues, which makes for a serious tax offense and the work of money laundering, because they pay for a service that doesn't exist. If we know that N1 television has no PIB but uses PIB "Adria News Doo", another legal person who isn't even their founder, you're all clear about this shit and all those noises should be used to banish accounts on Mauritius etc. and to come to power by means of illegal means. I hope that someone will take care of this, as I hope that the situation around Austro-Hungarian will not become entangled again, because it is obvious that the EU is slowly growing into some kind of Austro-Hungarian, therefore, that someone has the intention to stretch a little bit as long as it was Austro-Hungarian, with smaller or larger changes and I hope that it will not get involved. At least we, unlike the Austrians, need to learn something from the past and not come into a situation where we are once again nationalally maimed, that is to say, to lose a part of our population again. We've fought enough for others, it's time to live for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8658	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8659	Dear colleagues and colleagues, a very interesting discussion. I am sorry that Minister Maja Gojkovic is not there, because I have prepared some questions for her, even a gift book, but there will be time in some future days to hand it to her. We all know that culture is the mirror of every nation, the mirror of every country, and every individual. Whoever wants good for his country, who is trying to preserve all cultural goods in the country, and especially if he is a minister, must try to clean up every day that mirror, so that every citizen of Serbia, any foreign citizen, benevolent or otherwise, can see in the light of that mirror everything Serbia has, all of our sizes through history to this day, that at any moment in some part of that mirror, he can see St. Sava, Dusan Silno, Karadjordje, that he can see all that Serbia has, Desanka Maksimovic or Tesla, Milankovic, or, if he is in the mirror today, to see Novak Djokovic, to see all that Serbia has and what is worth. Serbia has a lot of what is good, which is available to all to enjoy those good things created by Serbia and which through its individuals has provided for the enjoyment of the whole world. But there's something wrong with it. With that culture, with that star leader, the lighthouse, you have to lean on both health care and education and ecology and many other areas of life. These days, yesterday or today, there was one very interesting news in the paper. Our countryman, Momir Maric, graduated from the Law Faculty in Kragujevac in 68. And how many times have we tried to extend or not extend our students the right to continue studying? And on that occasion there were many who said, well, when they didn't finish until 30 or 40, when will they end? Here, you can see that it can end in 68 years, and that man has fulfilled the amanet, a promise to his father who gave him at his death -- that one day he'll finish college. So let us not stand in the way of these children, or many are not children, these people, let them finish their initial education, or their studies. We made a big mistake when we bowed down to that Bologna. Or, if we had been cunning, we could have taken it in one piece and kept our old education system. But what's there is, now we can only correct what we've done wrong. When it comes to culture, what's very important? It is very important that all cultural employees, in educational institutions, try to preserve what is the essence of a nation’s culture, which is language and letter. We kind of get that language and the letter, to say the least, we're ashamed, so somehow we get away from that Cyrillic, like, you know, computer programs are on the Latin, so English is on the Latin, etc. I have nothing against computers, I have nothing against English, German and all other languages, but we have to save our own. Cyrillic is the most perfect letter in the world, and we Cyrillic so easily give up. I've had a lot of cases while teaching in college so students can tell me – oh, well, I don't know all the letters, so I'm writing in Latin. It's our fault, all of us who work in culture, who work in education. We haven't raised our children since we were little to honor their language and their letter. Here you go, co-worker. But there was a colleague. A colleague, Rajic, came out as well. Never mind. I'll send them some messages, because they've been talking both of them about library books, libraries as a bastion of our culture. I've somehow found the last year and a half, maybe a little more, one interest, but it's really an occupation. I started collecting books and giving these books all over Serbia. At first I gave it to individuals, today mostly schools, libraries, church facilities, health facilities, wherever I thought those books would find a place, the right place to be, and I responded to the calls of individuals, colleagues who proposed to me – here, I have this school, I need to give her books, I have a library, and so on. I have remained in debt here, one of my colleagues for Vrnjaka Banja I have not yet taken the books, and I am telling this fellow Rajić, he will hear it, or someone will pass it on to him – I cannot return the courts and judges to the Tower, but I promise that I will come to The Tower in agreement with him and bring a number of books to the library. We've now had a meeting in Black grass, a rally, or how to say, called the Blacktravina Orata, which could somehow be said on this purely literary Serbian black-trail story, or something like that. It was a gathering of all authors of prose and poetry and other artists from the region. Honestly, I wasn't hoping there'd be that many audiences. That's when I divided, I gave a certain number of books to the library, and for those listeners I brought one 50 books, I thought that would be enough. However, there were twice as many, so I remained in their debt. Why am I saying this? A colleague who told her about our children that they are not members of the library, do not use library services, here, I can tell her, and for these others too, there is a Library "Sister Stojanović", which is called, and they have introduced an annual award for the best young reader, children and others. On this occasion, a young man from eight to 10 years old, I don't know exactly how old he is, received a prize for the youngest reader, and a grandmother received a prize for her oldest reader. She says there's no book she didn't read in that library. Someone will say -- where did you get 10,000 books to give and give all over Serbia, and we went to Petrinje, and we went to Banja Luka, eastern Sarajevo, and Sarajevo. There were books for both our people and other people in other libraries and neighborhoods. I was lucky, and this is an opportunity to mention, in addition to all these museums mentioned by Maya, there is a museum in Belgrade, which is the Museum of the Book, an extremely nice and nice place. It would be good for each of you to go and visit that book museum, located on Vozdovac. Mr. Lazic is the owner, and I assume the director of this facility. With him I established co-operation through my colleague, Kotric, and they gave me a large number of books, in thousands, so that I could give it to libraries throughout Serbia. On the other hand, our colleagues here, Čotric must have given me one thousand books, Zarko Obradovic, too. All those who had extra books at home, which they may not have needed, because they took some part of their apartment, gave me those books, and I, along with my team, give it to them all over Serbia. My colleagues, Rajiæ, once again, let him report to his library, or library in The Tower, there will be one set of books, and we will also choose to help that library. On the other hand, people who are related to culture, especially those who deal with the press, are a few times, since I work with them a lot, they've told me several times that their business policy is very difficult now. I don't know how many years ago, he said, whether seven or ten years ago, since he's a cobwebsman, he was the exact same amount as now, but then he could hire 10 workers, he could pay them, but he says, today it all got more expensive, something and 100%, and he's not in that situation anymore. On the other hand, we and the government, perhaps the finance minister, the economy, should see that something changes, to make it easier for these people, because that would be good for us individually, and for our culture as a whole. counterpart Marijan Risticevic mentioned this event in Sarajevo, i.e. the Inzka decision that all who say that Srebrenica was not a genocide and that glorify Serbian heroes, that they will shut them down, I don't know what they will do. Here, I will be modest, I will admit that I am a Serb, I will admit that I am a citizen of Serbia, I will admit that I am a citizen of Republika Srpska. I will admit that I am a Serb of all countries and states where there are Serbs and publicly in every place, from this moment on, and so far, I will declare that in Srebrenica there was no genocide, that Serbs were not a genocide people. I will say that Ratko Mladic is a hero and that Karadzic is a hero and that their merits are great for what came from these ruthless civil war conflicts still managed to achieve Republika Srpska, so let them arrest me, let them put me in jail and wherever they want, but it won't be my mess, it's their mess. Why are they doing this? Because they want to cover up the crimes they committed against the Serb people. Today, an MP from the Czech Republic said they knew they were going to bomb us with the poor uranium, but they kept it quiet. More and more of those who slowly discover that Yugoslavia's collapse has been prepared, which slowly reveal who came up with it and how he came up with it, even one of the findings of a team of experts who recently said and proved that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. No one says there was no crime, no one says those criminals shouldn't answer, but we have to think about it, put our finger on the forehead, and figure out what's going on, what our enemies want. They're looking to cut our roots, to crush us, but they're wrong to think we have roots in the ground. We're upside down, we're rooting in the sky. These are the words of Igumanir Jovana, Archimandrit Mikhail Bikovic. And that's very good and well said. That's why we have to think of it to realize that it's up to us to keep what our ancestors left behind and to increase it if we can and to forward it to generations that are coming. We must not allow ourselves to be deceived by any lies, by any money, by being against our people. This is the moment when we must be unique and fight together for these strategic goals of our people. Serbia has given many significant names. Serbia has many poets, writers, wonderful lyrics. I will once again read the verses of Nada Kukalić, who says – I love the giants of Russian steppes behind whose letters dance forever and whose death is forever worshipped. Look how strong it is, what size it is. It's not poetry that sucks. It's a reflection of the soul, an expression of the soul. It's the most recent human feeling. So let's read books, read both our and our foreign authors and learn, because the book has given us everything we know so far. Finally, I will quote our colleague, Chotrić, who says: “The experience of all time and space has shown that love overcomes hatred, is better than evil, the truth is more powerful than lies, and life conquers death. That's why we survive as a human race, because we fulfill God's word. Be born, and be multiplied, and be many upon the earth, and fill it. “ Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8660	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8661	Mr. Orlic, ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid confusion, I think today is very important to remind you of an undisputed fact. Among the cultural workers in Serbia, among health workers, in education, in justice, in the state administration and local self-government, men are in a convincing minority. Somewhere even in a drastically convincing minority, there's one-to-five ratio somewhere. The Great Plan, the community I come from, is no exception. I will now read you some information: employees in public enterprises, institutions, schools, etc. 931 women - 69%, 427 men - 31%, one third; City Library - eight women, one man; municipal administration - 65 women, 37 men; Home of health - 184 women, 39 men; kindergarten - 136 women, eight men; court and prosecution - 61 women, 25 men; schools - 389 women, only 158 men; directors of public enterprises, institution, school - 13 women, eight men; chiefs, department heads, various other leaders - 37 women and 23 men. Therefore, if discrimination could be discussed here, it could be talked about discrimination against men. I hope that these changes that we are discussing today, that the adoption of these changes will at least ensure that in culture we ease that employment of men. Here, several speakers pointed to the importance that infrastructure has for the state of culture and for the position of culture. When in 2015 the responsibility for the management of the Municipality of Great Plan took over the SNS, we found cultural objects in very poor condition - roofs leak, facades fall off, below the door and window of the blowout. At this point, while I'm saying this, there are 17 objects in the Great Plan, institutions of culture and homes of culture, and they've all been restored and reconstructed in these six years. We have completely reconstructed the city library and it is certainly one of the most beautiful libraries in Serbia. We have reconstructed the Center for Culture "Masuka", reconstructed the Youth House, even in it built new rooms that we have applied to the use of music school, reconstructed the villa "Klefiš", which is an exceptional building, built in the Great Plana, which is probably the most beautiful building in the municipality. 241 years ago, in Krnjevo near Velika Plana, the first rural elementary school south of Sava began work. Of course we reconstructed that facility. We have reconstructed the homes of culture in Lozovic, Milosevec, Trnovec, Velika Oraš, Krushevo, Donjo Livadica, Bresje, Bulgaria, New Village, Old Village, Markovac, Rakinac. In all these facilities we replaced the carpentry, arranged the roof structure, made facades, in many of them performed very important internal works. What matters most is that these objects are not empty. A colleague from the SPS mentioned the importance of cultural and artistic societies. We in the Great Plan have 12 cultural and artistic societies. In Serbia, I mean, there are about 780 registered cultural and artistic societies, so on average, five per municipality, and the Great Plan has 12. Only one settlement on the territory of the Municipality of Velika Plan has no cultural and artistic society. What does this show? These data I present now show a responsible relationship between the municipal government and culture, show that municipal leadership is conscious of the importance that cultural objects have for a single society, show what is the difference between us and previous authorities. I have to mention them, because you can often hear where they call us peasants Serbia, behindrs, etc. We have restored all the institutions and all the homes of culture in the Great Plan, and in recent years they have not restored one. In the end, this shows that the economy in Serbia is growing, that it is strengthening the economy in the Great Plan and that more money can be allocated for everyone, including culture. For this reason, it seems to me that this year, more than 1% of the funds are foreseen in the Republic of Serbia's culture budget. For the end, last night in the Great Plan a event was completed – Leaders of Days of Culture. This is one event which we mark a tragic event – the murder of Djordić Petrovic Karadzic in the Radovna Lug. Logically, the central event of this event takes place every year in the Radovna Lug in front of the church of Thanksgiving. Why am I saying this? Because that church is in bad shape. I watched yesterday, and the internal malter started to fall off, the foundations were no longer stable, the roof started to rain in some places. I think it's a necessary emergency recovery. The Department for the Protection of the Smederev Monuments has done a rescue project. It takes about 10, 11 million dinars to do this and this is how I appeal to the government to approve funds for the rehabilitation of the church of the Grateful People's Church, and I think we should think about building a complex. I hope that on today, my predecessors spoke, on today, Austro-Hungarian has committed aggression against Serbia... So, there is no need to remind the importance of Karadjordje in Serbian history and what importance and what role this unfortunate event took place in the Radovna Lug has in Serbian spiritual vertical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8662	Thank you, Mr. Maric. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8663	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, I'm glad you're in the assembly today. We're used to you being here a lot. However, I am sorry that the Minister of Culture, Maja Gojkovic, is not here, but I sincerely hope that he will listen to this sansscript from the session, because I would like to make some suggestions in the work of the Ministry of Culture. As you know, in 2010, a cultural law has been passed which is in force until today and then some basic things, such as application, control, funding and others, have been regulated. However, there was a need for individual changes through a sublegal act. It is also noteworthy that UNESCO has on several occasions donated Serbian cultural material and immaterial heritage, such as acquisitions -- medieval tombstones, immaterial -- Serbian fame, donations to cultural monuments in Kosovo and Metohija, but also much more. Culture in Serbia has long been neglected, which is our fault, which among others who wanted to do their best to Serbia lose their identity. The Serbs are an old people and have a great history that many have ended as they wanted. Serbia often had the wrong people in power, so they agreed. The point is now under Alexander Vukic's leadership. Now you know where the line is and you know for the first time that some things aren't for sale. Our language and culture are our identity. We broad-hearted accept everything and their culture and diversity, but no one crosses our language, our letter and our culture. Much has been neglected, but since 2012, we have started to rebuild and, as many colleagues have said, it is being restored throughout Serbia. How many years was the National Museum closed? Ten, 15, I don't even remember anymore. One whole generation is growing up, and there's no way he's going to go to a museum in his capital city. Similarly happened with the Museum of Contemporary Art at the mouth, then with the Gallery of the Mother of Serbs, the Ethnographic Museum, then the National Museum in Zrenjanin. There is, for example, the City Museum in Mladenov, which has been completely ruined and has not worked for 10 years. Finally, in 2019 it was reopened. The following year, it is planned and renovated by a library that has not been renovated since its beginning. He's here, I'd like to add another observation, and we need to change museum hours. They must work on weekends, and the day off employees have to use, for example, Mondays or Tuesdays, because it happened when I travel around Serbia right at the time of the weekend that the museums are closed and we return from there disappointed. That's inadmissible, because if there's anything to show for it, and every end of Serbia has, let's do it. Let's be proud of how much history we have and how many armies here have been insinuating. For example, I was pleased with an exhibition dedicated to Savi Vladisavljevic Raguzinski, diplomat of King Peter the Great at the RTS Gallery. Many say he is the most powerful Serb after Dusan the Strong. I believe that many here, and many in Serbia do not even know that such an exhibition is being held. There are now virtual ways to visit museums, so that many students in the farthest areas who want to see the museum in Serbia with a teacher or professor for example art gallery of paintings, with a history teacher - historical museums, with a teacher or professor of biology – biological. So every student would expand their views on professional teacher leadership as part of the compulsory teaching. It's not the same thing, like they're going online without understanding anything. This, of course, only if they are unable to visit it personally, but since we know that there are fewer thematic excursions, this is the solution, because everything that young people see, learn and expand their perspectives becomes smarter. As you can see, I'm not the only one who connects culture and education, because it's kind of unbreakable and culture simply educates young people and educates our people to be smarter and contribute more to their country. The number of concert activities has been increased, as well as the technical equipment of theatres, cinemas, which is necessary for modern technologies. I must say that the Centre of Culture in Mladenov received a brand-new sound that greatly improved the quality of sound, but thus raised the level of visitors. I am also pleased that the Belgrade Philharmonic will finally get its building in New Belgrade and I welcome all their actions to get out of concert halls on the street and show and draw closer to the citizens their music. Culture in other areas needs as much as possible to get out of the building among people, so I welcome the decentralisation of culture itself. The culture ministry has worked on all fronts, so the number of purchased works of contemporary artists has been increased, and regional exchange has also been increased. The budget for the art game has been increased, many projects from the film industry have been supported, so there are much more domestic and quality series and films now than before. It's really noticeable and citizens are truly thrilled about it. Less and less reruns than reruns of different series than 30 and more years ago. We have really talented artists, but they need a boost, and of course this ministry recognized it. In 2014, for example, Serbia signed the first non-EU agreement for the Creative Europe Programme, because we are part of Europe, some politicians wanted to recognise it or not. In Europe culture knows no bounds. What's our job and what we have to work on, and especially the Ministry of Culture, is to encourage everyday culture. There used to be grandmothers, mothers who didn't work, and now everything has accelerated and changed. We don't have to leave our children to the media or the Internet. Here I also think about how we treat the elderly and how we treat nature. The culture ministry is a real address that can encourage a short educational content programme against violence among peers, not to throw garbage on the street, to help the elderly cross the street. Call it parenting or not, it's still a culture of life. I don't like any more TV broadcasts in prime terms of reality programs that declare immorality, verbal and physical violence. What can he learn from that? That whoever has the rudest, ruder behavior and more dirty money gets in the end. This may not be in the subject, but you believe it's very, very important. It is necessary to offer cultural content to citizens. The media handles money and the ministry cannot interfere, of course in the editorial policy of television, but it can influence some other ways to be in the nighttime, and the daily term to be for cultural content, from which something can be learned - how many significant Serbs there are in many areas, and the average citizen for them does not know, an example of an exhibition that is near the Assembly. The priority of the Ministry of Culture is, for now, the absolute creation of a strategy by 2027, then there is the draft law on cultural heritage, the draft law on the activity of the protection of immovable cultural goods, the draft law on museum work. For a long time, culture has been in the seal. Now it's time for the real values to come to their proper place. I hope Minister Gojkovic, given her long political standing and since she knows perfectly how things work, will leave a big lead in this area, given that she has been very committed and responsible in every job she has done so far. I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8664	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is Ivan Fishman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8665	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Comic, with a co-worker, respected citizens of Serbia, have been amending the Law on Culture that has been applied since 2010 at first sight is not about his basic intensity, but are an act of alignment with the Law on Gender Equality. The essence of the amendments to the four members of the applicable law is that instead of 30%, how much was the participation of the less represented sex, in the composition of the National Council for Culture, in the administrative or supervisory committees of the institutions of culture, that number to increase to 40% and should be seen not only as a political obligation, but also as a cultural act in the literal sense of that word. Political visions of gender imbalances lead back to cultural miles in which a man had not only a privileged but also a partially exploitative role in relation to women. The culture of male domination, previously of modern origin, in the new age-old social context has received new forms that were read first in the denial of women's voice rights, then in the less-paid work of women for the same job as men and in unpaid household work, but also about the lower representation of women on high social scales and functions. In the spirit of general liberalisation of society and the creation of a new cultural pattern that is not based on male domination is the idea of gender equality which also implies equal gender representation in management posts or working bodies. This special attitude towards gender equality, i.e. increasing social sensibility towards this topic, is also one of the current authorities in the Republic of Serbia against its oaths that have rarely applied the physical abuse of their spouses and their parents, for which certain criminal proceedings have been initiated. This tendency to violence mentioned by representatives of the current opposition has been reflected against the most born and through their daily political agenda and are now calling for boycotts, demonstrations against authorities, remandisms, disobedience, accusing even representatives of the European Parliament, even though, to quote, saying that they go up to the hair of Alexander Vukic, they have finished the quote, although they have called on them to be a mediator between the current authorities and the opposition. That aggression was also seen by citizens in the recent unconscious performance of Mr. Vuk Jeremic in front of the presidency of the Republic of Serbia. They could also see by calling for July demonstrations last year when they attacked the forces of the MUP and the aggressive rhetoric of opposition elites using the KKK dictionary. Many will now condemn me for making this company, but I simply couldn't find a better one, according to the morning statement by one of the feathered, intellectual opposition, Mr. Academyman Teodorovic, who said in his interview that he believed more Belivuk than Alexander Vukic. With that sentence, he plans and it is his political platform with which he wants to win votes from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. He trusts a man who has transposed people into halves more than the legitimately elected democratic president of a sovereign country. If it wasn't tragic, it would be funny and let him serve his honor. On the contrary, however, the SNS has a clear and principled attitude that has been repeatedly confirmed in public. Being principled against violence means not to tolerate any form of it. In that sense, the struggle for gender equality is based on the same principle as the fight against thugs, against hooligans and all those people or organisations who think they can afford to do what other people are forbidden. Quite the opposite of that attitude, the true attitudes of today's opposition and the media that they control are re-expressing these days in the horrendous taking over of the side of reckless criminals who, with their gang, have committed disgusting crimes that are inconceivable to common sense. In a blinded desire to get hold of the authorities at all costs, these, so to speak, politicians openly side with a criminal organisation rather than be horrified or at least as people who are solid with the families of their victims. By defending the crimes themselves, defending the criminals in public through the cleverly twisted political form of these people who have re-intentioned to win power, they have become accomplices in promoting social behavior and truly undermining the legal system, the social stability that we have sought as a society since we came to power. We can also note that their highest officials, such as Dukljan Fanatics, as he likes to call himself Brian Brkovic, a senior SSP official, who now suddenly supports the people who have taken up their top positions in the MUP in time, and today they remember that they are somehow involved and connected to this criminal organization. Without any intention to prejudge their involvement in criminal activities, I would truly be pleased to see these allegations shown to be incorrect, but they are at least persons who would have to bear the moral responsibility for what they say – they did not do their job, i.e. They didn't do anything to prevent this criminal clan from coming into existence, at the very least. I would also like to remind that Mr. Brkovic, the senior official of the Freedom and Justice party, is the former leader of the protest "1 out of 5 million", which he has wherever he can speak of Serbia, and that he is the son of Balša Brkovic and grandson of Jevrem Brkovic, persons who are testified against all Serbian. The Serbian name, the Serbian people, Serbian authorities and the Serbian Church and the state are ultimately not secretly talking about all their performances and public appearances for decades. Not to say, declared and scarred Serbs. Now he, the grandson and son of the people who have taken a career in animosity towards Serbia and the Serbian people, would now salt us with what is good in Serbia, what is wrong in Serbia, as he will when he comes to power with his mentors to arrange this country and society. Finally, this law, as well as many other legal solutions discussed by this high house, shows that the society in Serbia is once again ahead of the choice between, to use one heavy but true ancient division from the Hebrew tradition, to the sons of light and sons of darkness. I have no doubt that, as so far, victory will be won by a decent not-so-sufficient Serbia. On behalf of that Serbia and we MPs should publicly support both this and every other law that prevents violence and violence and guarantees full equality between all people. For this reason, I felt that even four short members who are amending this law, or who are in line with the Law on Gender Equality, should be used to highlight the principle that separates competent people from bullyes, hooligans and their defenders in public. Let me just say a few more words about a current situation that's happening in society these days. Anyone with a healthy understanding and not too much political literacy can see that Serbia and its authorities have faced obvious pressures from various centres of power, both political, media, opposition, crime, and all others. These pressures can be seen in the hysterical adoption of resolutions to Serbs as a genocide people who have run better to adopt some countries in the environment and in the region even though it has nothing to do with the truth. First, no nation in history is and cannot be condemned as genocide. Finally, not even the members of the Third Reich who had a clear strategic and detailed plan on the extermination of the Jewish people were condemned for this, and secondly, because the genocide did not occur, at least according to reports of an independent commission led by Dr Gidden Graif, historian and specialist in the study of the history of the Holocaust, who scientifically proved that no member of this nation should deny, but not genocide. In the end, our famous director Predrag Antonijevic said the best about it. When they asked him about the crime in Srebrenica, he asked the opposite question – who told you that. When he was told that the mothers of Srebrenica had said it, he said -- that's one of the evidence that there was no crime in Srebrenica, because if there had been a crime, there would not have been a Srebrenica mother, as neither did Jasenovac's mother after that genocide over Serbian living in NDH. The basic idea of respected citizens of these joint attacks, to destabilise the situation in the country, and this is best done by attacking the stability factor and reformer of our country and society as a whole, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Even if he attacks for something a normal man can't even think about. Now we can see from the papers that he's attacking that he's an exclusive importer of Indian soy corona in Serbia, he's being attacked as one of his fans' leaders, that his other child has the name of a great Serbian conqueror, that his brother is a drug dealer and he owns everything that exists in Serbia, from the hair salon to McDonald's, that his father is not his father, and now the latest, he's being attacked and that he's a member of this criminal clan. Everyone but a written man is clear on what their intentions are and what the purpose of these disgusting lies and accusations are, but I will tell them publicly, especially these last charges that he was seeing with the members of this notorious clan, because even if he wanted to, he couldn't do it. If we consider the number of people and services involved in his safety assessment, he certainly could not have done so in any way. Dear citizens, the main objective of these attacks is to destabilise Serbia's development and progress in every sense, ahead of the upcoming elections to come to the power of those who could be more easily manipulated, who would not be such a difficult negotiator and who would easily accept to carry out the interests of countries that do not want to do well in Serbia, because simply in high politics there is no such emotion, but simply want to impose and achieve their own geopolitical and geostrategic interests, such as recognising the independence of KIM, such as accusing Serbia of genocide in order to redefine the political and legal situation in BiH and many other interests. But, dear citizens, you have no need to worry, no reason to worry. Despite the attacks, despite these lies that are being brought up daily, we have now seen that a lie has been told that Mr. Alexander Vulin, Minister of the Interior, during the time he seemed to me, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, told Miljkovic from this clan, that a car with weapons should be taken to Jayance even though he had no authority at that time, nor had he had any opportunity to do so. Despite other inventions, despite the desire to give our country back, Serbia is developing from day to day, faster than it can be expected and will cope with this problem, as it has been dealing with all the problems it has been facing since it took over the state helm. With floods if you remember, with the smallest GDP in the region, with a broken economy, with a broken army, with a devastated school system, with the lowest salary in the region and finally with this pandemic of Corona. About Serbia, respected citizens, account is taken of responsible people who want to leave behind not only material evidence in terms of a large number of investments in current largest salaries in the region, by developing travel medical and other infrastructures, but also want to create an ideological paradigm and cultural pattern that will break down with previous ways and models of governmental government that has been identified exclusively in a senseless personal wealth, and create a model and create a pattern that will for the basic purpose of caring for the state, society and every individual regardless of who is at the head of our country in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8666	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. The word is Ana Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8667	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected minister, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the preservation of a material and immaterial cultural heritage is the task of every individual who wants his society and people to last time. We are witnessing that President Aleksandar Vucic is struggling to preserve the cultural identity of the Serbian people, to develop culture, to cultivate tradition, and also to cultivate a culture of memory, in addition to economic development and economic growth. The Ministry of Culture and Information, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, showed responsibility and seriousness in solving decades of problems in the area of culture. I would just remind the citizens that the culture budget is the biggest ever, because investment in culture is an investment in the future. What is particularly important and what is particularly looking forward to me is that the state recognized the importance of decentralisation of culture, as well as the investment and improvement of infrastructure and the strengthening of smaller municipalities in Serbia. The municipality of Cicicec, where I come from, is the smallest municipality in Rasinski County. Thanks to the competition "Towns in Focus", which was announced by the Ministry of Culture and Information, funds have been allocated for the reconstruction of the National Library of Cicicevic, the cinema hall, for the establishment of the ancient museum, but also for the ambital lighting of the tower "Todor of Stalac". By restoring and supporting infrastructure these significant buildings and monuments, this is primarily important because cultural quality will be improved i.e. the quality of culture that is lacking for young people, but it is also important for our tourism development in the future. We are grateful for the opportunity to present the cultural, historical and tourist potential at the conference - the capital of culture in 2023, which gave us great honor and pleasure. What's most important is that you are, i.e. Minister Maja Gojkovic, recognised the initiative of young people who came to power in the municipality of Ćićevac in 2020 and found a large minus in the register, a collapsed infrastructure, a backlog of scholarships, unpaid earnings, contributions and taxes, outstanding family benefits. While the other municipalities in the Rasin district developed, grew and progressed in every way, in the municipality of Ćicicvac, the Jeremics, Tadics and Aleksics filled their pockets and borrowed us. The results and differences in municipalities and cities where SNS has been responsible for its citizens since 2012. This is very important, because today they are trying in different ways, different methods and means to criminalise the president and his family. When you have no results, no actions, no programme, then you use everything or nothing, and even against your own state to blacken out the president who, unlike them all these years, has shown that citizens are always in the first place. It won't work, because in their daily appearance in the media and the spread of lies, they just remind the people why they never need to be part of the government again. A decent Serbia knows and remembers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8668	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8669	Dear Vice President Orlic, honourable Minister Comic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I was mostly speaking as a representative of the parliamentary group about these two laws in the afternoon debate, and let me say some more though. As we have heard from the messengers of the people, there are two laws before us. The first Law on Culture and the second Law on Library Information Delta. Why did we put them on the agenda? There's one basic reason. Because of this, when it comes to the first law, so the Law on Culture, to imitate it, so to speak, with the Law on Gender Equality. This second law, the Law on Library Information Action, to imitate it with the Law on Culture. So, the SNS, as we have already said, will vote for these two proposals. In the afternoon debate, I compared what the SNS did in the field of culture, and what the previous government did with concrete, or direct data. Let me say, however, since colleagues have already mentioned some, and my smallness this morning, that the National Museum of Serbia, formerly called the National Museum, has been built for 15 years. For ten years, the previous government has kept him locked up for visitors. The Museum of Contemporary Art has also been for ten years. He is now one of the better museums, one and the other, in this part of Europe. Thirdly, the Film Centre that was totally abandoned, only one data, in 2019, in a material sense, the Film Centre received 50 times more financial resources than the previous government. So, respected citizens, not 50% more than 50 times more than the previous government. Not to mention, since I was counting it this morning. Dear People's MPs, we are these days witnessing brutally unprecedented attacks on the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the Republic of Serbia, and on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The centre of these attacks is in one foreign state, but is linked to the internal tycoon-mafian political groups and individual, undermining, intellectuals and individual charlatan analysts, who have only one goal, which is to bring down Alexander Vukic's authority to retake power and bring the Republic of Serbia to the brink of bankruptcy as they brought him. We have attacks from Croatia, for example, not only from it, we had from Bosnia, Croatia, Montenegro connected all the way to Bratislava where the president of a neighbouring country attacked the fierce president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic by lying normally, the Serbian Orthodox Church and the state of Serbia. They all have one goal together. To bring Alexander Vukic down from power and stop the economic, political and cultural progress of the Republic of Serbia. As far as Croatia is concerned, the state of Serbia has made it clear and said that Tesla, which we have spoken about these days and today is the people's MPs, is stealing. Afterwards, on the front page of the morning list, it is the most vengeful newspaper in Croatia, the text appears that they can't do anything about it because they put it on it, and then again in the morning list, there's spit on Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and we're the biggest, we're accused of being bandits in the Balkans. We didn't do genocide. The Croats made genocide in 1941 to 1945 in NDH. The Croats made genocide when it comes to "Storm". Please, I'm undermining again. Let's not mix a crime for genocide. Genocide has a intention that happens before the war. If we're just talking about killing and slaughtering, it's homocid, I see that 99% and analysts mix it up, etc. Then they attacked the youngest son of the President Vukan, which is an unwarranted sin against them. You know, respected citizens, why they attacked him, background? Not only do they try to psychologically act on the president of the Republic, but the Vulcan was the son of Stefan Nemanje, who ruled in Montenegro, so they compared Alexander Vukic to Nemania, and his son with Vukan, alluding to Montenegro. It's a background, not that these analysts talk around here every day. It's a charge of large-serb nationalism that he doesn't have. If we were clear, what the President of the Republic said, no one in Serbia brings the statehood of the Republic of Montenegro, but we have a problem with the position of Serbs in Montenegro, with their position. We seek the same rights, those that all other nations have in other countries. That's the point. So, when it comes to clearing that up, too. Now, whoever's on the phone, you've seen it. Gilasov and Jeremic, let me say, a former parliamentarian, and today the president of the political council of Vuk Jeremic, Vladimir Gajic, who brutally insulted Dr Kona on July 27th 2021. Do you know why? He insulted him on a Nazi basis, because he said it was normal to think about the separation of vaccines from unvaccinated citizens, as they said in neighbouring countries. Gajic said: “Is it possible for a Jew to say this? “ What if one of the MPs had said that here? Have we ever said similar things here? And we always accuse ourselves of some imaginary hatred that he doesn't have, and they sow hate. This is hate. Is this hate or not? The same, regarding the attacks on the president. A group of 50 "grobars" received 100 euros from people from the environment of Dragan Gilas and his party, all the media announced, to scandal at the stadium: "Vučić, gay" on July 17th of this year in Novi Sad, at a football game. So you see what this is about. It's part of a special war, I assure you, against the president of Serbia, and when he is removed from power, then those who will be on the verge of bankruptcy will come again. Lies go by, designed by lies. You saw a former minister yesterday. If any of us on TV had been under the control of Gilasov that he had spoken, that would have been attacks, etc. He asks us for psychological analysis, all MPs and all members of the SNS and the president of the state. It's that stupid thing that he's making up all the time, some kind of Prelevic. That lawyer, so he never told the truth how many I've known him, 20 years. He made up a sentence I said here, lied, and asked for an attack on me on that television. Well, I'm a lot afraid of them, so they'll separate us from the party or from President Vukic. They know, they paint for nothing. Well, I wasn't attacking myself for something worth it, but for supporting the president who's fighting a lifeless fight for our country's economic progress and the fight against crime. Now, whoever answered, you saw. Now we're gonna say a little bit about that. Marinika Tepic, the political, electric rabbit of Dragan Dilas, reported. In 2016, ladies and gentlemen, she signed a motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica, you remember who you were as MPs, and asked that thespread people be convicted of genocide, so that Serbs would go to prison if they denied genocide. I spoke last week in this high house, Nenad Canak in Pristina, Nenad Canak instructed Albin Kurti, Nenad Canak at Mile Djukanovic, instructions on how to attack. Nenad Canak instructed Djukanovic to attack the president in Bratislava, not only the president, but also the SNS. The Serbian Orthodox Church was not attacked as the gentleman mentioned. So, you see, Tepicka is connected to a bandit drug dealer, you know very well, we talked about it here, Novak Filipović, and he's connected to the Velje Nevola clan, which Panchevo turned into his cartel. Isn't that right, People's Messengers? Well, you know from the previous call that that's how it is. Gilas was really pissed off like, not to compare it to what, because of the text published in a daily newspaper that made it clear that Marinika used the Fascist Movement Dictionary that Mr. Bakarec was talking about this morning in this high house. In this group of attacks, miraculously, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, in the people known as "the rent thief", appeared. That's the man I told directly here that he stole Milici Bajji's apartment in Obrovec on Kurjakovic's 7th Street. Thank you, Mr. Vice President Orlic, and all the previous vice presidents, for giving me the opportunity to talk about it. The result is that Milica Bajja entered her apartment after 23 years. And Janko Vesenovic was not a refugee, he had a house and was done to him was, in fact, not his, but his parents. So, this is the man, to examine his activity around the "Tesla Bank" in Zagreb, to examine his activity while he was in charge of returning refugees to Croatia, how much financial resources he collected. Now, that's what we need to talk about. And he's going to criticize someone here. We have seen these days, I must say that Janko Veselinovic supported Croatia for the character Nikola Tesla in the euro. He did not support Serbia, but Croatia. Let me cut to the chase so other colleagues can talk. Now you see, in that hack, you have probably heard, respected MPs, but also citizens of the Republic of Serbia, once again to remind me that she has been involved, but for 12 years, Dr Vesna Pesic, political activist Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic, has again attacked Aleksandr Vukic, lying that the authorities are expressing hate speech and that ours, imagine, is the idea of a policy of destroying opponents. Where did we do that? Who did we destroy? And she asked to destroy a political opponent. You know, I will never speak of it by heart, because Vesna Pesic asked for destruction, the liquidation of Alexander Vukic when she said on January 19th 2020, I quote: "If Brnabićka resigns, you know, a lifelong Vukic is being prepared. Now, there is no boycott, just a tube in the head," finished quote. Is that an invitation to murder? Is that an invitation to kill political opponents? What is she talking about? So she was thrilled that Inzko passed a law denying genocide in Srebrenica, so she says, quotes: "Latin Inzko is finally leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina to raise his head because of the ban on denying genocide in Srebrenica." Listen further, and she continued: "Serbia is still, to our shame, the last to deny genocide. Doesn't Serbia have the elemental human sensitivity and the feature of never repeating such things again? “, finished, July 25, 2021. That's what she said. What does she know about genocide? He doesn't know anything. Did she learn what happened there? He doesn't know. Unlike her, my smallness has read all the literature worldly, and ours has read and reviewed all the reports possible. She doesn't even read what our scientists say. No world scientist claimed there was genocide. For you, this information, respected citizens, is to see how you're being lied to, no worldly. I can't go over two more things, which is to say that Dragan Gilas has never, ever been interested in the development of Belgrade, but never. That's not what I'm saying. That's what his party colleagues say, formerly, and some present. That's what actor Sergey Trifunovic said, who Gilasa is not interested in culture in Belgrade, and some ambassadors abroad say. I will now quote former US Ambassador Cameron Manter. Manter said in 13/09/2009, "Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade is marketing and unreal." Is this true, Mr. Gilas, what I say every day here? Check it out, go to the TV screens and say it. Look, there's someone who remembers in this home who studies. So, this is about Dragan Gilas and the development of culture in Belgrade. Well, that's what Sergei Trifunovic told him. Jeremic, he says, is an untalented politician, and Gilas has destroyed culture in Belgrade, such as the truth. No wonder the National Museum in Belgrade, the Museum of Contemporary Art, was closed at the same time as the National Library. You know who was in power back then? Do you know who was director of the National Library and whose Sorosheva office was there for ten years? We who visit these facilities on a daily basis know very well. So, here, who answered? Academic Dusan Teodorovic, a.k.a. Headquake. The people call him that because he's always shaking his head out of hate when Alexander Wolf and SNS are mentioned. Let me say a few words about this gentleman, though. He is constantly expressing hatred for the SNS, the president of the state and anyone who supports the president of the Republic. Thus, he expressed his hatred for great actor Nenad Jezdić at the opening of the highway "Milos Veliki" in 2019 and informed the public that he would no longer buy Jezdić's, otherwise, excellent rakija. Imagine, because of Jezdić's love for the success of the state, for his country and success in infrastructure, the hatred of one academic towards the state, for Alexander Vukic and for the actor Jadic. Am I telling the truth or not, honourable citizens and you people's MPs? Teodorovic echoed hatred for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in a show under the control of Dragan Djilas, 18.7.2019, when he said the MPs were recipients. Did we ever tell him that? Well, who cuts out hate, replace thesis? Let's move on. He named President Vukic on 10.3.2012 in a list under the control of Dragan Gilas, direct, Stalin, Hitler, Mussolini, Frank, Peron or Kim Dynasty in North Korea. Did we ever tell him that, except when he came forward? Now, these are the truth. Dragan Gilas, come out and tell me if I'm telling the truth whether you said it or not. Which is the hardest. wrote off Dusan Teodorovic, as well as Dragan Djilas, Kosovo and Metohija. And the famous academic wrote off to Albanians, when he said in 22.7.2012, I quote "Kosovo is not an integral part of Serbia" in a list under the control of Dragan Gilas. Is that right, Mr. Academyman, or not? In the name of whom do you give up one piece of your country? The problem in Kosovo is not territorial, but human rights that they have replaced with territorial. It's nowhere to be found. The same Teodorović academic compared citizens, believe it or not, who support Aleksandra Vukic and SNS with the inhabitants of Nazi Germany on 5.03.2020. Is it true, Mr. Academy? Is it or isn't it? Did you possibly say, Mr. Academy, "The head of the Serbian state is a hooligan who is rude"? Did we tell anyone? Well, that works every day. And what my colleague Ivan said, he's absolutely right -- I believe Veli Belivuk more than Alexander Vukic. Is that an academic? Well, it wasn't him, respected citizens, Professor. An evicted Traffic College at the most difficult moment in our history, when there was a bombing and hid in a country that bombed us and returned after two years, placed Serbian Dugalic illegally back in the same university and again wants to bomb the country to go back to a country that would bomb us. So he stands for chaos, for he saw his prosperity only in chaos, and not only him, there are many more. There's little time to talk about it. I will no longer quote others, but ultimately, respected citizens, while our President, Alexander Vukic, daily, is making superhuman efforts to restore our country's international reputation, and it is very successful in implementing peace policy, as you can see, security policy, solidarity policy, the health policy of all our citizens in the country and the region, the policy of a compromise, sustainable and sustainable solution for our southern Serbian province, the country's modernisation policy and the politics of a free, uncompromising fight against crime, at the same time Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and individual intellectuals, individual analysts, charlatans, join together and try daily to reason every success of our country in the economic and other field. Is this a Jeremy wolf to talk about? Well, what does French politician Michelen do to him at the Centre for Sustainable Development and International Policy, I ask him, who has been pushing for independent Kosovo for 30 years and is taking Natasa Kandic to international meetings, believe it or not, to say that she represents normal Serbia? Speak up, Wolf Jeremiah. Dear Vice-President Orlic, the respected minister, the Serbian Progressive Party will vote for the two laws. Lived our economic progress under the leadership of Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8670	Thank you, Professor. Atalagic. The word is Nevena Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8671	We have two laws on the agenda today – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Library Information Action, and all the amendments mentioned are being adopted and proposed in order to create a uniform systemic and effective regulation of the entire area of culture, and therefore amendments to the Law on Library and Information Action are proposed in the work which regulates conditions for the selection of directors. The proposed amendments to the law are in the right way a reflection of the efforts of the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Serbia to create such system laws and optimal conditions for the successful and even development of culture, and I will certainly support the proposed changes in the day of voting. What is also important is that the culture of each country is in a close relationship and depends heavily on the economic state and degree of development of the country and all cultural activities are closely linked to both the economy and tourism and trade and tradition, but also to the fundamental features of the national identity of a nation. It is Serbia's economic prosperity and economic progress that enables us to discuss these laws here today, to adopt the changes mentioned, but not only these laws, but a number of other laws relating to infrastructure issues, to the issue of improving the economy and generally to the progress of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, I must also mention all the important projects that are expected in the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. We are expected to begin work on the construction of the vaccine factory, as announced, by September 1st, we are expected to open another homage of a hospital in Novi Sad. All economic parameters when we talk about our country are positive. By the end of the year, we will have as much as eight highways and fast traffic, and we hope that the number will be increased to nine, with one big note that the early next year is expected to move faster trains from Belgrade to Novi Sad. Serbia is in such an economic and financial position today, because politics in the Republic of Serbia are run by citizens of the Republic of Serbia today, since none of our citizens, better than ourselves, knows what the real interest of the Republic of Serbia is. None of us can love our country more than ourselves. All of what I talked about today, all of these projects, allow progress and prosperity of the Republic of Serbia, because it is decided exclusively by citizens. Serbia is now strengthening and all the positive results and all the successes are not something far away for Serbia today and unattainable. But citizens see everything and they are best able to assess, and thanks to their will, the irresponsible anti-national and anti-national policy that marked the period until 2012, I am primarily referring to the period of rule by the leader of the current opposition of the former regime, something that will not happen to Serbia again. All these projects I've been talking about so far aren't just a list of good wishes. They're reality today. The reality is that Alexander Vukic does not go out with what the citizens want to hear, but only comes out with the truth. And it is wrong for all those who think that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will forget the period of the notorious rule of the yellow team, the period when the factories sold us for change, when they destroyed our economy and left people out of work. As the citizens see all of them, we could see a few days ago, when the provocators turned in front of the Serbian Progressive Party's premises, to cause some pity or simply intended to try again to place the fog on the citizens. Then the citizens gave them a clear answer, a brief and clear answer gave them the brave ladies of the occasion, who are not afraid of thieves or their speakers and who can make a clear difference between how they lived during these tycoons and how they live in Serbia today. Otherwise, all the political programme of today's opposition, which is warmly supported by certain tycoon media, is based on two basic ideas, which is to bring down Alexander Vukic or insult the same man. Then we are in a position to be told about the destruction of the Serbian people by Marinika Tepic. Put your hands on your heart, she has extensive experience in that segment, but I believe it's not at all pleasant when those most common bandits in the ranks of the former regime listen when we're here talking about what they are and how they've been doing, how they've harassed and robbed our country and what they've been doing with all the scams and lies. Then you get into a situation where your former former associates talk about you. I just can't leave it out, we mustn't forget that, because there are a lot of arguments when we talk about the destruction of the Serbian people. If we start with that Serbian people falsely accused of genocide in Srebrenica, so she used and abused the position of the province's secretary for youth and sport and thus, past the law, funded certain sports clubs, so we heard that she had promised some kind of police badges, so she asked and demanded that journalists who were unsuitable in her opinion, and today she was rewarded, it comes as some kind of stimulation to those some luxury cars that she boasted, rewarded by her boss, probably for the shines of these lies and the affairs she continuously places. It's just a small response from people who want to hear what she has to say, because I'm sure citizens don't want to hear stories from those whose main and basic idea of leadership is a successful tycoon interest, or rather - the more successful tycoon interest and dirty business. They don't want citizens listening from those who work for tycoon cash. However, they do not give up because they want to dream about their dreams and regain power. To point out once again that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia clearly know who they support. They support the state and those who work in its interest, not the tycoons. And it is clear here who is working in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and it is clear who they are bothering and who is against the laws that are being adopted in this House. Because, for example, how could the Law on the Origin of Assets be appropriate to someone who cannot prove the origin of his property? But Serbia has made its choice. The honest and responsible citizens have made their choice and the vast majority of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly SNS MPs, stand in the front lines whenever it is necessary to support any idea and initiative on the prosperity of the Republic of Serbia, which is just being looked at in the policy it has designed and led today by Aleksandar Vucic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8672	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8673	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, a respected minister, today we are talking about amendments to the Law on Culture, a system law with which every part of cultural life in Serbia must be harmonised. The aim of these changes is to specify the way members of the National Council for Culture, as well as the Supervisory and Management Committees are elected, with the aim of making these bodies work even better and even more efficiently. The specific objective of these amendments is to bring the law in line with the Law on Gender Equality and to establish greater representation of women in these working bodies, which is certainly good. And in the day of voting, together with my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's MPs from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, I will support the above-mentioned amendments to the law. When we talk about culture, our task is to preserve and promote our cultural heritage, because cultural identity is most important for one nation, because cultural identity represents a bond between us, our ancestors and future generations, and we must never give up fighting for our cultural heritage, for our cultural identity, because any denial of this type can be fatal to an entire people. The Serbian Progressive Party is a party leading a real national policy, and for this very reason we have allocated significant funds in the previous period from the culture budget, through the realization of important projects, such as the digitisation of our cultural heritage, the promotion of our cultural heritage at international level, through the renovation of the National Museum, through the opening of the medieval Museum of Serbia and, finally, through the rise of the monument to Stefan Nemanja in the heart of the socio-technological project "Belgrade on Water", which we have proved and demonstrated that national identity and socio-material progress can go together. It's a story of national consciousness and it's a story of self-respect. That's how we protect and defend our cultural heritage. We are thus defending the Pećko Patriarchy and the Virgin Mary of Ljeviška and Archangela, therefore, our cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija, which today, I can freely say, is the most endangered safe in all of Europe. We have managed to bring progress with the national sign to be a new Serbian code and the impact of the false second-Serbian elite is becoming increasingly weak, which is particularly well and positively accepted in young people. The frustration of the second-Serbian false elite is seen for raising the monument to Stefan Nemanja, for giving state aid to the completion of the construction of the Holy Sava temple, for providing state aid for the restoration of the Hilandar monastery. Their only task is to attack all the good and all the positive things that the Serbian Progressive Party and President Aleksandar Vukic do in Serbian society, but also the task of attacking all national and all progressive. When we talk about our cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija, what I'm sure concerns us all are constant and I can freely say daily attacks on our churches, our monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija, and it wouldn't surprise me at all in the future that Aljbin Kurti, favorite of Dragan Djilas, Borko Stefanovic and Vuk Jeremic, is going through Milo Djukanovic in attempts to hijack SPC property, and that's something that we all have to fight together with all the means that no one ever thinks they can do that. We need to be very careful, because there is clearly a certain alliance between Belgrade's auto-skillers and the extremists in Pristina, because they are also attacking Serbia. These are the same autohazardists gathered today over policies pro-punged by Dragan Gilas, which after 2000 freed from Serbia's Albin Kurti prison. They probably already recognised his potential for attacks on Serbia, so today along with Aljbin Kurti Marinika Tepic and Zdravko Krivokapic can accuse Serbs and the Serb people of something that Serbs have never done. He accuses us, imagine in Brussels, Albin Kurti that Serbia committed some genocide back in the 19th century, and the percentage of Albanians in the 19th-century population has increased from 10% to today's 90%. So where Kurti and Marinika Tepic accuse us of committing some kind of genocide, there is no longer a Serb. The only people who have experienced a systematic crime in the 20th century and who have lived and experienced genocide is the Serb people, in Ustasha NDH, but also in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo and Metohija, which in the 1990s resulted in terrible ethnic cleansing, where more than half a million of our countrymen were forced to leave their centuries-old hearths. The objective of Albin Kurtija is clear in the negotiations, which is to banish all Serbian from Kosovo and Metohija. By the way, we're talking about a man who won't let one Serbian girl in Djakovica buy bread. So much for the thunderous silence and the NGO sector in Belgrade and so on. The opposition in Serbia who has not stood up for Ms. Dragica Gasic for anything she faces today in Djakovica, in her town, in her apartment. It is a policy of one continuity of attacks on Serbia and the Serbian state, which is also advocated by both Thaci and Veseni and Haradinaj. So, Serbia is accused by human organs traders, and that's why they won't raise key issues in Brussels, such as missing persons, because they don't want to get into the secret archives of the terrorist KLA, because then it would be determined that the truth isn't exactly what they represent. So, Serbia's recent years, months, weeks have often attacked together and have been tasked with the same task of Belgrade's auto-skillers, extremists from Pristina, human organs dealers from Pristina, Croatian media. So they are on the same task, and it is nothing more than an organized attack on the president of the Republic of Serbia, on Alexander Vukic, because of his firm views on Kosovo and Metohija and Republika Srpska. There are obviously certain centres of power in Belgrade as well as in the environment and beyond which not every economic and political success of the Republic of Serbia corresponds. I have already said it once and I will repeat it once again to think that if anything bad ever happens in the Balkans, it will happen because of violent attempts to resolve the Albanian issue and thus violently create a major Albania. It is interesting that the only thing Serbia is talking about is this problem, while all the countries around it speak either shyly or silently. I would also like to take the opportunity to tell the extremists in Pristina that, thanks to the SNS, the policy implemented by Aleksandar Vukic is not Serbia from 2004 and 2008 and that Serbia will never again allow new floods and new storms, and something like what happened in 2004 when the centuries burned. It will simply never happen again, and Serbia will never allow it again. I want to take advantage of the opportunity for the indigenousists and these Gilasovites in Belgrade to simply allow the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia to never again, through violence, come to power without the political will of the Serbian citizens, with the help of foreign agents and criminals so that they can continue to implement that traitorous and thieving policy they had been able to carry out for the entire 12 years, from 2000 to 2012. They know Serbia's citizens and they see well that today we have a strong state, not a tycoon enterprise. Serbian citizens see a determined fight against organised crime being fought, as all those involved in organised crime today are behind bars, thanks to the state, and that is enough for a smart man. We will continue to strengthen Serbia in all areas, continue to invest in culture, continue to cultivate a memory culture, and with the goal of spreading our economic and political influence in the region and beyond, but most importantly, in line with Serbian national interests, to preserve peace and stability in order for our economy and our economy to progress further. That is why I am convinced that in the first upcoming elections, Serbian citizens will give even more support and confidence to the policy conducted by SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic, because it is the only policy in Serbia that guarantees a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8674	Thank you, Mr. Terzic. He's got a word for it, Doc. Dr. Ilija Živić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8675	Dear President, I am sorry that there is no Minister of Culture. I am extremely pleased with the results of the ministry in the previous period, and I believe that only the Ministry has done well in that work that was its task. When such a situation is progressing, as I said, the situation in which the Ministry of Culture is, it is logical to set some new, higher goals. I believe that, accordingly, a proposal on raising the scale, i.e. five years of working experience in culture and higher education is now necessary for the director of the library. How important culture is and how important part of society tells us that individuals, which are a classic example of non-culture and vandal behavior, want to get involved in cultural institutions like the libraries we're talking about today. For example, we have Bosko Obradovic, who, after the end of his term in the National Assembly of Serbia, tried to work at the library in Cačka. Now imagine Bosko Obradovic, a man who tried to infiltrate Serbia's Assembly with violence, leading those hooligans to work in the library. Imagine Boško Obradović, who tried to break into RTS, a television that is the least favored to us, the ruling majority, but RTS, which has already been an outstanding cultural programme for 20-30 years. Imagine a man who wants to work in an institution of culture and enters such an institution, leading various hooligans. Otherwise, the same Obradovic, who tried to hire in the Chacan library, also has a criminal record of assaulting one of our fellow MPs, but also criminal charges for assaulting the minister. If he'd let him work in one culture facility, it'd be a scandal. It would be like if we gave Dragan Gilas, a man who was accused of domestic violence, who was talked about in the media that he beat up his ex-wife and her father, a reward - the most cultural of Belgrade, for example. In addition to the library, when it comes to culture, it is often talked about transferring cultural forms, and what some of my colleagues here were talking about. The transfer of cultural models of behavior from the elderly to the younger. In fact, youths and children absorb all that older ones do and see some of their idols in them. It's mostly athletes, actors, singers, but lately it's been public-functioning. Now imagine the situation for Vuk Jeremic to again become the bearer of some public function and he to be a representative of it. What kind of cultural patterns could he pass on to our generations, to youth? Perhaps the haughtiness he showed while he was foreign minister, while spending millions of citizens sleeping in hotels that are suitable for Hollywood stars, while drinking too much wine and smoking overpriced tompuses. Perhaps the disrespect of his country today, every day, and when it speaks of everything that is Serbian. Maybe it's an aggression he showed when he tried to break into Serbia's presidency, with the president of the state, but every day, bringing out that same aggression, threatening us, the SNS MPs, through the media owned by Dragan Gilas or through his orders on social networks. I'm not sure about these previous ones, but I'm sure if he becomes a public official, that the cultural pattern that he conveys to young people will be next – it's cowardice. That's the cowardice he showed when he flew out of the presidency at the speed of lightning when the president of Serbia came before him and saw President Aleksandar Vukic's firm position. In addition to libraries, museums, galleries, which we all talked about here today, according to general globalisation, the main cultural bearers became the media both electronically and those printed. Serbia can be proud that there are 74 scientific journals in which young researchers publish their scientific papers, some of which are highly quoted among fellow researchers abroad. Unfortunately, however, in Serbia one cannot tell the magazine, it is too serious and fine a word to be used for a pile of colorful paper, printed by tycoon Dragan Gilas, and where else in Croatia, the only country that has in history had a camp for small children and in which it brings incredible untruths and abominations about the president of the Republic of Serbia but also the whole country in general. The same Dragan Gilas, who is a unique example in the world of earning 619m euros during his office as mayor, which is why he did not even have time to deal with our capital. Using this pamphlet, he also uses media and portals in his possession to give political support to the heads of the Belivuk-Miljkovic clan, along with his confidant Marinika Tepic, the same Marinika Tepic, who, many years ago, accused Serbia and our brother Republika Srpska of genocide and the Serb people of genocide, so I would now continue the destructive policy of impaling the embassy's dictatorship likely to go a step further, to accuse us all of being butchers and accomplices. In his media, however, he mentioned the decisive facts, which is that we, that the state of Serbia has arrested the entire Belivuk-Miljkovic clan without any shot fired, unlike those who, in their time, shot the leaders of the Zemun clan in order not to speak. Marinika and Gilas don't speak in their media that we immediately brought forensics into a house in Ritopek, a house of horrors to determine who was all in that house, unlike those who immediately brought Schiller down so that it wouldn't happen to happen to some honest cop to bring forensics there. Finally, the state led by the president of the war against the mafia released all surveillance footage and all persons seen in those videos were invited to an informative conversation to show their relationship with criminals from the Belivuk-Miljkovic clan. Unlike their time when the footage from Schiller's medically disappeared. In the end, someone who carries cultural values from generation to generation are teachers, teachers, teachers. Let's remember Desanka Maksimovic, Professor Vujic sometimes or Vladite Jerotic recently. However, fascinated by hatred for everything Serbian and anyone who protects Serbian national interests, and primarily poisoned by hatred for President Aleksandr Vukic, some creations, lovers of perversion, and people who infiltrated the teacher chamber surfaced. I'm just curious -- when will colleges be introduced that there must be a minimum of cultural norms that one person must have in order to restore the status of a professor at the university? How is it possible for our children to not be able to call him a person, a man, I will say – this creature that mocks the victims of Belivuk's clan in the worst way possible? Is this about teaching us kids at the state law school and the college that we all spend money on? So imagine what consults with the so-called so-called. Prof. Vuletića in a small office when a young student comes to his office, handsome and from the inside and faces him face to face in a small room. With a man who doesn't hesitate to hang out with Belivuk and say love on the phone and act so recklessly in front of TV screens. Gentlemen and dear citizens, this clear distinction between us who want cultural Serbia and the same Vuletic, Marinika and Gilas, who give political support to the cutthroats of Ritopek, which I think is my job as accomplices in crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8676	Thank you, Dr. Liver. The word is Milos Bandur.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8677	I thank the chairman. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I will look back at my presentation on a few things. Of course, the first segment of the address will be dedicated to the laws that are on the agenda today, more specifically to the amendment and addition of the Law on Culture and the Law on Library Information Action. Of course I agree that these laws, like others, must be in line with the Law on Gender Equality and that is not disputed. What I see is not disputed, but it is my objection and the Ministry of Gender Equality and the Ministry of Culture, and perhaps others who, according to this law, are sent to us for correction is that these laws are passed around the same time. One law was passed on May 10th, May 25th, or about that period. The period of lawmaking or amending the law is very long and I expected that, in either ministry or between one ministry, there is communication and that something being prepared at the Ministry of Gender Equality will be reviewed and incorporated in time in the regulations concerning the other ministry, the Ministry of Culture. If you'd done so, you and your colleague who's a culture minister, we wouldn't be spending our entire assembly day on changes and additions that concern changing three figures in three places into two laws. So that's my criticism to you and my criticism to the Ministry of Culture in that part, and it's interesting that the Ministry of Culture has hurried to immediately bring some of its members into line with the Law on Gender Equality, but let's just say that for 16 years, no one has agreed the Law on Culture with the Law on Higher Education. The 2005 Higher Education Act with all amendments and additions, and later the new 2017 law with amendments and additions, are no longer familiar with education. We used to have more and higher. It was college high, it was over two years old. Since 2005, there has been only high education in Serbia, which has actually incorporated more education and indeed more schools have become higher vocational schools. So when the law continues to state after 16 years that someone should have a higher education for the office of director, and is thought of for four years, at least four years of schooling in college, then it is not in accordance with the law and I also point out those who work at the Ministry of Culture and in some other ministries to do what their colleagues in the Ministry of Economy did, I think. In time, the Law on Public Enterprises is in line with the Law on Higher Education, and you have a good point there when it comes to the school's preparation of the director of public enterprises, high school prepares what it all implies. In any event, it should be written that it is a high school education, or a high school institution for at least four years, or 240 ESP points, whether it is academic or vocational studies. This is how if he stays, and the rest is, that he writes that the director and library and culture institutions should have a high school, that means that he can have three years of high-school education, that he's acquired his first elementary degree in higher education or that he's acquired a higher degree in college, and many plans and programs are three plus two instead of four plus one, so even with three years of college, he gets a primary degree and he's graduated in higher education. I am sure that the legislator did not mean three-year-olds, but four-year-olds, and I think that after 16 years, someone in the Ministry of Culture is sitting down, also considering the conditions for selecting a director to emulate a law that has been unchangeable in that part since 2005. Those were some suggestions of what's on the agenda. As for what is not quite directly on the agenda, which is something that, as citizens and as MPs, we need and we need to comment on it, we must not remain silent about all that is happening around us is that I want to remind all of us that today is July 28th. To the soul in 2021, but on July 28th 1914, so 107 years ago, Austria-Hungarian declared war on Serbia. Five days before that, on July 23rd 1914, in Nis, in the Banovina building, where the government's temporary headquarters, the Prime Minister and the King and National Assembly were, a telegram arrived, the ultimatum of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, Serbia. It is interesting to say that on July 23rd, but this year, Valentin Inzko, who comes from a country that is the legal successor of the Austro-Hungarian, or to say the man who then committed aggression on the Serbian people, also directed a ultimatum to the Serbian people, prohibiting us from talking about our victims and casualties in the war in BiH, that Srebrenica must not even be commented on and that this is a genocide that it is not even allowed to do for the purposes of research and sciences. It is obvious that the spirit of Oscar Pokorek, lives in Mr. Valentina Inck, because Oscar Pokorek, who was the manager of BiH in 1914, wrote in a letter to his minister that he should use the apathy of the Serbian peasant, that Zagreb must be turned against Belgrade, and that Croatian and Muslim intelligence in BiH should be turned against Serbs. So fight it and rule it. That's what happened, that's what they thought, and that's what they think today. The essence, Muslims and Croats, is now that the Bosniaks and Croats are turning against the Serbs, and that hasn't changed. The Serbs, of course, knew and always wanted brotherly relations with each other, because we both think and experience each other, as our brothers, but it seems that there is hope on these two sides that there is hope that with other people's side, foreign assistance can always be agile to what belongs to the Serb people, and then they opt for that option, not for the option of co-operation, brotherhood and friendship with Serbs. I have to say, it's because of Valentine Incko, he's the last one who can talk about genocide. Not just him, everyone who belongs to Germany, i.e. The Austrian nation should refrain when the Serbian people mention in the context of any genocide, because genocide occurred in World War I. The genocide committed by Austro-Hungarians, committed by Germany, committed by Bulgaria, but above all by Austro-Hungarian. From a directive by the commander of the Austro-Hungarian Ninth Corps in 1914, I will only quote one to get out – first of all I can't stand to be unskilled, but armed people, hostile countries, whether they're in groups or individually, captured, they have unconditional killings. It's about the second and third calls, because there were no uniforms in Serbia for all. The second and third calls did not have official uniforms, their peasant suits and spoons were their uniform, and the order of the Austro-Hungarian army was that they were not captured, that they, either individually or in groups, were killed on the spot. Andri Barbie, a correspondent for the Paris "Ilustration", for the World War I period, said - I was forced to stamp the terrible barbarism of the Austro-Hungarian troops, if I hadn't watched their misdemeanors with my own eyes and had not photographed their victims, I wouldn't have believed in crimes. For now, their wounded, thoughts of the Austrians, are settled together with Serbs, in Serbian hospitals, and they cherish them, as well as their Serbs. It was written by someone who was French and someone who was certainly in those situations and during that period was impartial. So, genocide committed by Austro-Hungarian, it committed a nation that belonged to both Mr. Incko and the gentleman, whether or not it could be called Mr. Oscar Pokorek, the executioner who was bypassed by that bullet that was intended for him, by Gabriel Principe. They have built a series of large camps in BiH for Serb civilians. I don't know how familiar that is to the public. Serbian villages were burned, cattle were taken and killed, and civilians were placed in camps. One of the largest was in Doboj, where the Austro-Hungarian cavalry for sick horses was turned into a camp for Serbs. It's not cleaned or taken care of. It is what sick horses were in. It was brought into it by Serbs. 46,000 people went through it, 12,000 people died. There were both women and children, for the population is made up of men, women and children. A lot of kids died in that camp. Mostly due to lack of food and infectious diseases. Unhygiene led to bowel infectious diseases, the number of patients increased from day to day, and one day it was 106 per track record. The most dramatic was in April 1916, when 346 children died in that camp. I say, a total of 12,000 Serbs, and it wasn't the only camp, and from that camp, Serbs were deported to camps in Hungary, Romania, away from BiH, because BiH was planned to ethnically cleanse itself of Serbs. If it clears itself from Serbs and Serbia divides between neighbouring countries, then the threat to the Austrian-Hungarian empire ceases, as it saw a threat to its survival in Serbs in Bosnia and in the Kingdom of Serbia. If that's not genocide, if all that happened in World War I where Serbia lost one third of the population, where 52% of the total male population died, and in those 52% are the youngest military capable, biologically strongest men, if it's not genocide over one nation, if genocide is not mass hanging of civilians in Machva, then what is genocide? What Oscar Pokrek did continues, Valentin Inzko. He prohibits talking about victims in Bratunc, in the Srebrenica municipality, of Serb victims between 1992 and 1995 who were somewhat less than there were Muslim victims between July 11th and 19th 1995. A little less, and I, as a logician and mathematician, always come from the principle of cause and consequence. You know, it is some kind of failure in the chain of command that may have caused such a terrible crime on the 11th of July in Srebrenica. Insufficiently tight chain of command. Foreign services that had an interest in making Serbs commit a crime that would later be repeatedly called upon, forgetting everything else and just being the focus of the international community. It's all about the cause here. Those who burned all Serbian villages in the municipality of Srebrenica and the municipality of Bratunac, killed the civilian population or expelled, were their relatives, brothers, neighbours, etc. Although it was to light the wick of vengeance and to provoke it to be said to someone, now is your chance to take revenge. So I condemn what happened then, July 11th and later in Srebrenica, but why no one in the international community, almost no one in the western part of the international community, including Mr. Valentin Icko, wants to talk about what happened before that, about the events that preceded it from 1992 to 1995. If there were no casualties of thousands of Serbs in villages and two municipalities, which even the CIA is sending its report to Washington, so CIA officers say the BiH Army's conduct is illegal, there is no command, they are disbanded, they behave violently, cruelly, etc. If it hadn't been for that question, how much would someone have been able to interfere and turn on those Serb soldiers to do what they did in 1995? Just to point out, when I mentioned camps for Serbs in the First World War, which was founded by Austria, what the Croatian says, Dr Josip Škaric, who was a doctor and who begged the camp commander to let the prisoners, the campers get dry food, because they suffer from bowel diseases, this one answered him fiercely – well, what are we going to do, in history, that some nations are disappearing and others are rising. Well, what might be against it that this time the Serbian nation disappears? It was the response of the Austrian camp commander in Doboj, who was only one of the camps during World War I on BiH territory, camps for the civilian population. Of course, in 1938 a monument was erected at the site of the camp, the memorial “Kosturnica”. It's interesting that in 1941, just three years after the rise and vengeance, they stood up as soon as they entered Doboj on the first day, the monument was mined. In 1954, it was restored, but without a cross at the top and at the end of November 6, 1993, the Republika Srpska government carried out its debt and restored the monument as appropriate. These days, we are witnessing a Pristina side story about some genocide over ourselves, and there are stories coming from BiH that they are also the subject of Serb genocide, and who will be more genocide to name, or to quote, and now we are asking ourselves questions, and what are they going to do with them, or why do they need it? So now that I start from what we learned at school and what kind of relationship we had with World War II and genocide against Jews, the issue of "Holocaust", we had a huge empathy towards victims and on the other hand almost no empathy about who committed those crimes. I think that here the aim of international public opinion is that here the public is European and worldly who should lose every empathy towards the Serbs and the Serbian people, and then when the international public loses their empathy then they have enough ways to take away from the Serbs what they intend, above all I think about our interests in KIM and the status of the Serb people in Republika Srpska and BiH, because the situation where Serbia is developing, developing faster than its neighbours, with a big step forward and so strong and economically powerful can protect the interests of its people at KIM, but also the interests of its people in BiH, Republika Srpska does not contribute to them. I think they decided to hurry up their script a little, because here I have the information that has recently been published that Serbia has achieved a 30% growth in the area of innovation in the last three years. This is not our data published by the European Commission for the Assessment of Innovation. It says Serbia is making twice as much progress, i.e. it has twice the rate of growth in the area of innovation compared to the EU average. It is convincing in front of some EU countries, of course you assume that there are always Bulgaria, Romania and those who have never objectively met the conditions to be part of the EU, but Serbia is ahead and some highly developed countries such as Slovakia, such as Poland, ahead of Latvia and others. Of course this didn't fall out of the sky. This is the result of state policy, investment in science, in education, in economy, in innovation, in start-up companies. The support the start-up companies receive from the national state level, but also from the local level, we know that the last few years have opened scientific and technological parks in several major cities of Serbia, one opened in both Nis and the Republic and Nis through the scientific and technological park, but in other ways I know, from their budgets they provide support to start-up companies, small and medium-sized enterprises and precisely the policy of innovation in these companies. Just another piece of information in this European report, in Serbia, the last less than four years, the number of IT experts has been increased twice, so we have more than 40,000 people in the sector today. Because Serbia is making so much progress, they are in a hurry to complete some regional plans and hence so many incursors of attacks on Serbia and the calls addressed to the President of the Republic, and this internal factor in the outside is always useful to destabilise the country despite the fact that the president has the support of at least 70% of Serbian citizens. You know, the tycoon media in the same titles puts both the president and one slayer who bled his hands to that extent, which is almost certain and will surely prove in court that he has nothing left but to bargain with those he believes will help him, and the state can't help him, because the state has declared war on the mafia, war on crime, war on corruption. Therefore, he can expect support, they can expect support from those who claim to be a state, to be governmental and foreign intelligence services with whom they have always seemed to be in contact and whose interests they have served. In the end, I'd say, I'm reading some headlines these days about the gentleman's report... (incomprehensible) Krajfa and the independent commission, that time is a master's solution is time solved, but many things can be forgotten if they do not repeat themselves and do not work hard, patiently and persistently to present and document the truth. Thank you for your time, I hope the ministry doesn't get very angry with these criticisms that are directed at the beginning. Long live the president of Serbia, lived Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8678	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8679	Thank you. The Ministry of Culture has no reason to have people on your remarks since your criticism that the Law on Culture and the Law on Gender Equality, regardless of the fact that the Law on Culture was passed before the Law on Gender Equality, that it has a 40% provision, is, I suspect, a misunderstanding of your lack of information as an MP and you have the right to do so. There is no way that the law passed before the Law on Gender Equality, which has a reference provision, has in any member a provision of 40, 50 or whatever you want a percentage for management structures, or would receive positive opinions from other ministries, or would pass a positive Republic Secretariat for legislation. This is the way and procedure of how laws are passed before you, as they go as changes and supplements, so it's hardly a criticism. As for the compliance with the Higher Education Act, I'm not getting into it, it's probably going to be right in front of you. Even so, you lose sight of the competition and the way people file. I think it's very, very good that the Ministry finally agreed these two laws, because the injustices and the problems that were on the ground because in one year of experience, in the other five, it was really noticeable and required amendments and additions to the law. We in the Government don't mind that you have an initiative to pass laws independently of what we are bound by uniform methodological rules, but it is also an act adopted by the Assembly in 2013, and this act also indicates that the law passed before the law with the reference provision cannot contain that reference provision. So, I totally understand that you think that we should spare you today's working day and I can agree with you a little bit, but probably for other reasons, but also for procedural reasons, for the reason in which the Rules of Procedure of Government works, that you consider more effective, therefore, that the Law on Culture introduces a provision of 40% less than the gender represented, before that provision on your part is adopted in the National Assembly is simply not possible. Just to clarify, since there was some uncertainty, this is not a law on women's equality, and this is not a law on any weaker sex, and this is not a provision on anyone who is discriminated against, this is a provision that follows from the Law on Gender Equality, which is a law on both women and men. In a particular case, it is a serious business that the Ministry of Culture will have ahead of them, because the provision, once you vote for these amendments to the Law on Culture, will mean a bulky job for men to relax working in culture, which is very often without enough money, without enough reputation, without respect and reputation, desirable dealing with boards and without paying, you know, there are no compensations on boards. It is a reality that is very clear in contrast to our habit of talking very positively about the need to cultivate our culture, our knowledge of culture, our knowledge of everything that is the well-being of culture to the benefit of society as a whole. There, that's an explanation. I am pleased that, in essence, serious criticism of the bills before you, and I was not, as I was glad that Minister Maja Gojkovic was one of the first to understand and read the laws that came into force, so she sent to you a reference provision of 40% less than the gender represented. This is how all the ministries that have any governing bodies will come before you, because you have decided to be in Serbia and wherever public affairs are and where private businesses are to be 40% less represented sex, and that is something that I am personally grateful for, and what needs to be the real cultural spirit that exists in society in Serbia, in the name of real equality between women and men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8680	Thank you. The word is Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8681	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture, which represents an important measure of the progress of a society. The definition of the famous Malro is that culture is the creation and growth of all wealth, eye and with man, and most importantly, of man himself. This law, which was passed in 2009 during the former regime, which came into force in March 2010, did not regulate the basis for our culture and it was another magical reform of the yellow regime. The adoption of the new Law on Culture and Sublegislative Acts, resulting from it, creates preconditions for a uniform system and therefore more effective regulation of the entire area of culture. The reason for these changes is also part of the obligation to bring this bill into line with the Law on Gender Equality, which the Serbian government advocates, headed by Alexander Vukic. This sets out that the choice of the National Council for Culture is to ensure representation of at least 40% of representatives of the less represented sex, as well as national minorities, as well as the obligation of representation in administrative, supervisory and other state institutions, depending on whether the founder of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, or the unit of local self-government, is to appoint up to one third of the members from the ranks of staff in the institution, on a proposal from the representative union of the institution, and unless there is a representative union, on a proposal from most employees. What is important to stress is that the implementation of this law does not require any funding from the budget. Five round tables were held in Cačka, Suotica, Novi Sad, Nis and Belgrade, with respect for all epidemiological measures, with the presence of local authorities, representatives of cultural institutions, associations, as well as NGOs. Unlike the former tycoon regime, which cared only for the culture of its own budgetary's million interests, leaving behind the heritage of cultural devastation, Serbia, headed by Alexander Vukic, has allocated funds for the period from 2014 to 2020 for capital projects that include the adaptation and reconstruction of all Croatian cultural institutions, from the National Museum of Contemporary Art, the Museum of Vuk and Dosite, the Matica Gallery of Serbia in Novi Sad, the Museum of Science and Technology, the Museum of History of Yugoslavia, the Ethnographic Museum in Belgrade, the National Museum of Zrenjanin, the Šabačka library and many others. Also, much has been done to strengthen all segments of cultural heritage, but also the economic prosperity of the Republic of Serbia, where from the bottom of the European scale, we now tend to be leaders in the region and in eight years we have achieved results that have been unimaginable and better than in the last 50 years, while sovereign in the conduct of our own policy, but consistent in the approach to European integration. From helping pensioners and citizens to health care, where salaries are now double the size of the military and police, the separation for the treatment of the youngest abroad, the fight against the white plague, all of which are fronts where the lionic struggles with Aleksandar Vukic. Its idea and suggestion is to single out 5,000 euros for each newborn child, as well as to maintain and improve all other rights for both children and mothers, because without children, we are not worth factories or investments. We say that, and who ever thought about it before Alexander Wolfie? And what was the former tycoon regime doing, headed by conductor Dragan Gilas? Was that their quest for culture, the devastation of the state register, but also their lives in general, when he grabbed and took from the maternity care of the family? Art in the sale of state-owned enterprises for a reason, in order to accumulate millions of money on its accounts by tax havens and a few "porscha" for its sopranos. That was it. Yes, their culture and art are especially visible now, when the state is scramblingly fighting against the most monstrosistic clan, where in defense of the villains as consilers, it receives a ballerina from Morović Marinika Tepic. Apparently, for her, the slaughterers are just an orchestra with which she will play in the same pumpkin against the state and the president. She doesn't mind that they're just performers of death symphony. In the spirit of their gruesome art, the devil's lawyers compete in the defense of the beast, where they crucify lies in the delirium of the wrath of Alexander Vukic and his family through Gilasov and Šolak's media, according to the established manipulation program, because they are aware that honest and brave will never withdraw from the murderers, thieves and Pharisees, because there is no such thing, nor will there ever be compromise. The mafia will no longer run Serbia. No more kabadiahs will decide the fate of our children and all of us who have decidently told us not to destroy our beautiful country. That's what the people of Serbia said, and his people do not deny it. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8682	Thank you, Mr. Yevtovic. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is 18 minutes. The word is Dr. Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8683	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, culture is certainly one of the foundations of every serious state and of course our state of Serbia and as such must be treated with special attention and every law relating to culture must be well-established, well proposed and, most importantly, accepted or unaccepted by the Assembly. This law is short, but it is very precise and clear and, simply, you can immediately see from the reading what the subject is and what we want to achieve through these laws and certainly has my personal support. There is, I'm sure, and support for the congregation's majority and that's just the way it is. The culture and history themselves will intertwine and, simply, over time, everything will come to light and come to its own. What we have left in our cultural heritage, what our ancestors have left behind, what is what we will leave behind will be judged by someone else, but what is important is that we keep the culture on sound grounds and that the waters of people who are consistent and who deserve those positions in cultural institutions. It is precisely this law that defines and five years of experience in the work is minimum to allow someone to accept and manage the institution of culture at all, and should be fundamental to any other institution. Every investment in culture comes back multiple times, and it's simply impossible to measure. I'm sorry that there is no Minister Maja Gojkovic that I simply commend her for everything she's done for this short time. All of us who have been in politics for a little while longer know that somehow culture has always been in some seal, sheltered as a minor ministry, as something not so important. It is precisely the relationship of Maja Gojkovic to the Ministry which is leading and the relationship of Alexander Vukic and this ministry and this government and of course this National Assembly. Very seriously, responsibly, and for a very short time, changes are visible. If we mention the National Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art, these are some famous museums, but we cannot mention all the museums in Serbia, libraries and other cultural institutions that have simply been forgotten. They weren't forgotten, they were simply trapped. They simply didn't work cultural institutions where dust was collected and where no one alive knew when it would start and whether it would ever work again. Of course, thanks to the voices of Serbian citizens, Aleksandar Vukic in 2012 takes responsibility for this beautiful Serbia and with the help of our co-workers, coalition partners and MPs and ministers and with the help of the citizens we come to a status where we can think about everything and think about everything, where we try to fix everything that can be fixed and where we achieve results better than we can expect. When it comes to culture, every honor and serious commendation to all those who, in this year and a half of the crowns, have managed to, among other things, at least to preserve those institutions, to manage to do something and do it, to be of service, because, among other things, the cultural institutions here to open the door to our citizens have simply managed to survive for these years and a half and on this great praise. What is certainly not commendable is the behavior and attempt of the opposition people... However, it is also simple to ask whether they deserve the name of the opposition. I personally think that someone to be and to bear the name of the opposition he must at least act and think in the interests of the citizens and in the interest of the citizens to work so that the state can be stronger. This opposition thinks exclusively of itself and thinks how to do as best or as much as it affects the collapse of our country so as to bring down Alexander Vukic, regardless of how expensive the price would be and what would affect both the state itself and the citizens. People like that question is whether or not they're opposition, but let them think about it. What is certainly important and that is simply how we fight for Serbia, each in our position, each on its own micro-plan, no matter what level and place it works and lives in Serbia, simply, so it will be in Serbia. Here, I wouldn't be long, since we've heard a lot of arguments today and indeed an exhaustive debate on important issues. I'd take advantage of this, and I'll finish by congratulating everyone who won the medals at the Olympics, who fought for us. It's an honor to the militia on gold, but it's also a Mike on silver. Well done, Tijani and the bronze basketball players. These medals prove that we can and are strong and that we are great. Well done and those who didn't win medals, who fell out in the first round, but fought for our Serbia and all the honors of them. Those who have not tried, let them see what they will do with them. Any support for all laws that bring good to this Serbia. Any support to all those who fight for Serbia and for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8684	Thank you. The word is Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8685	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with an associate, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, given that we are slowly approaching the end of this debate, I think we have heard a lot of arguments and all the main reasons why the MPs of the SNS Group, Aleksandar Vukic, will support these draft laws for our children in the day of voting. I must point out first of all that, when we talk about culture, I think Minister Gojkovic pointed out a very important fact. The people who criticise these laws today are the same people who have allowed the National Museum to be closed for 15 years or the same people who have allowed the Museum of Contemporary Art to be closed and not to be used, that people cannot, in particular, be able to visit these museums, improve their knowledge and thus further perfect themselves. What concerns me is the information we talk a little bit about, which is the fact that how many generations it's missed to use the National Museum, to see everything that's very important in one place, but also to see something that's rare. I really think that such a situation that we were in until a few years ago is embarrassing for our country, and it was especially embarrassing for the simple reason that people who represented themselves as some elite and tried to pass themselves on to citizens in every way, never answered the question – why is nothing done about the National Museum or why nothing is done about culture? I'm glad that in the last few years, the image has changed dramatically when it comes to culture. This is best seen by investment, best seen by the opening of new museums, but also by investments concerning local self-government. That's very important and very good. Only when the SNS came to power did culture begin to gain a place in our country that it deserved. I am also convinced that Mrs Gojkovic is not here with us today, and I am convinced that we will continue this good practice in the next period. As for these representations, i.e. The application of changes to the law in order for the less represented sex to be in 40% and all that we're talking about gender equality, I think it was only then that the SNS came to power to do a drastic shift. You can see, you, Mrs. Komic, were a folk MP, so you can interpret it from your own perspective, how many MPs are in parliament today, how many women are in important positions, in important places in our country. If you wish to observe this through whether the prime minister is one lady, such as Ana Brnabic, we have had until recently the Speaker of Parliament Maja Gojkovic, the Governor is Ms Tabakovic and what is more important and what I always want to draw attention to is the fact that all these women have not been given a chance because of the pro-forma or some quota, but because of their knowledge, by skill, education and pawning contribute to better life in Serbia. That's very important. You will agree with me for sure that a large number of women in ministerial posts justify the trust they received from Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. I am convinced that we will also have a lot of success in the coming period and that every person in the government or in this Parliament will make an additional contribution to make our country grow even faster and further. What I'm about to finish, to leave my colleague Marinkovic with time to discuss, something that, don't take for granted, but this is what I say most well-meaningly. Somehow, although many advocate this woman's equality and the protection of women's rights, and everyone always argues, somewhere, it seems to me, up to one limit, and then when Prime Minister Ana Brnabic suffers the worst possible insults, when they call her a stupid, evil woman, when the most disgusting threats come to her account, somewhere that woman's solidarity disappears, or in a small number, someone stands in her protection. When Veseinovic was an example of the case-playing city councilman in the Belgrade City Assembly, we came up with one conclusion condemning his behaviour, but unfortunately, and then there was a lack of reaction and many NGOs, associations fighting for the protection of women's rights, but what is even more painful from my point of view, and her colleagues. Such practice is repeated and now in the past few months, when Mrs. Brnabic again went through "hot rabbit" Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic, Boška Obradovica or anyone from that click, headed by Boris Tadic, who represents the former DS regime. I think it's something that we all have to work on as a society, but also, that ladies who fight for those rights, when it comes to such cases, first go out and stand to protect one of them, because I think it's normal and it's something that every lady would have to do for another colleague. The best example is Anna Brnabic, who is always there to stop for every colleague, but also for every colleague. As far as the laws themselves are concerned, of course in the voting day, we will support these bill proposals, and I am confident that you will come out before us as MPs and in the coming period with even more good, high-quality bill proposals and that we will all, together, make every day a better and better place to live than Serbia. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8686	Thank you. Last on the list registered for the word Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8687	Thank you. Dear Minister Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first to thank my colleague Mirkovic for his solidarity. Of course, it is one of the basic postulates and principles of our party's operation and our parliamentary club. I'd like to be very effective when it comes to the subject of culture. This is something thanks to President Vucic and SNS in the past few years of topics and platforms that have definitely been very developed, given the fact that the SNS considers culture to be one of the most important aspects of social life and that everything we do and do in terms of political, economic development, everything we have as a result in the past few years on the political and geopolitical agenda should be and should reflect positively on the development of culture, on the promotion of our cultural heritage and on new investments, when it comes to culture. We have, of course, done all that has been done in terms of economic development, not only isolated and invested in this so-called so-called “economic development. ” hard infrastructure, highways, airports, railways, all that Serbia has managed to do very dynamically in the past few years, especially since 2014, when Aleksandar Vucic became prime minister, has already invested in soft infrastructure, whose culture is a very, very noticeable and serious part. Of course, we follow that policy that Stojan Novakovic is also a prominent forward, Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, a prominent diplomat defined at the end of the 19th century, saying constantly in parliament and in the government and citizens of the then Kingdom of Serbia that the influence of Serbia and Serbs should spread and should be promoted through investment in culture, education, that the interests of Serbs living then in northern Macedonia, in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija can only be defended by Serbia investing in culture and investing in the educational and cultural capacities of our people. So, it needs to be honest and open and tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I want to do it from the National Assembly, that there are no investments, that there are no investments in culture, there would not be everything that my colleagues have talked about today, and that is new museums, new projects when it comes to film, cinematography, when it comes to financing a number of projects in the field of culture, that there has been no economic development and that there have been no domestic and foreign investments, which our president has worked hard to do well and with a lot of energy, which is the basis of social development, in fact, and political development, economic development, invested all his time and all his capacities to make Serbia a modern and economically strong state. To be clear and to be open, honest, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, there is no cultural development, no museum opening, no new projects if there is no economic development, if there is no GDP growth. Everyone who talks differently is a demagogue and, of course, is trying to lie and deceive the citizens and this people. It is something that the citizens of Serbia and how priced by President Aleksandar Vukic who is very honest, very open and very clear to them, given that his vision, his leadership and his policy are very simple and very clear, which is that economic development, new jobs are driving everything that, of course, raises the overall capacity of this people and the state. Of course, everything that has been done in the field of culture, in the area of reform and all that Serbia has done, many in the region and in the world did not expect it to be the most responsible for being targeted by those who today have strong Serbia, who mind today that Serbia has money and that it supports projects such as movies that talk about our history, about our past, about our cultural and historical heritage, is bothered by the man who, in Washington, in Brussels, is able to tell us what our red lines are about our national policies, about the protection of our vital national interests and, of course, the ones who, unfortunately, are one of the very rare things that can be seen in world politics, on the world political scene, appear people from the domestic political scene, who would help those who are economically powerful and politically powerful Serbia, to help them to realize their plans and to continue their past lives, and not only to be seen in the media. We here as representatives of the majority in parliament, as representatives of the SNS and as we are fighting it hard and we will always fight it, we will always talk about wanting to protect our interest, that we want to and that we are not ashamed to support President Vukic, his integrity, his family's integrity and his right to be maximumly protected. Those who talk about it today and try to connect him to those with whom he has been uncompromisingly and unfortunately dealt with, as key criminals and those who devour the substance of this society as the greatest evil of this society, probably snipers, bombs and heavy weapons were needed to deal with Red Star fans, Rada or any other club, no, should be open, be honest and should be told the truth in every place - it was necessary to remove Vukica as the greatest threat and the greatest obstacle to those who want bad Serbia. Of course, we will continue to act in our work as we did in the previous period, in this solidarity, together, as one strong, modern party, supporting our president, who, every day, fully protects the national interests of this country and the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-28-0.u8688	Thank you, Professor Marinkovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) Is it possible that the word "proposer" might want? (No) I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposals of the law at issue. The 1st and 2nd agendas. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 82 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 96 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice, or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Milija Miletic.
