ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3242	Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, comrades and comrades, I am pleased to be able to draw your attention today to two important laws - a draft law confirming the status agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on actions implemented by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency in the Republic of Serbia, as well as a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia in co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking, which the government has submitted. Of course, I also draw your attention to the Agreement on Educational, Cultural and Sports Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of Mexico. So, ladies and gentlemen, the migrant crisis will continue. I am not here for the first time when it comes to the migrant crisis and when I ask for your support and ask for your support that the Government of the Republic of Serbia receive another means and another mechanism to combat the migrant crisis, just as I ask you to support the Agreement on Educational, Cultural and Sports Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States. Mexico is a friendly country, they have not recognised Kosovo, they have not recognised that false state, the great country. Of course, every step of co-operation and every step in which we show how much we care and how important it is for us to have, no matter how geographically they are, support and good communication with the government, or the state of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take everything we're going to discuss today with great care, with a great deal of thought, with a great deal of attention and to give us support in the voting day. These agreements are important. The deal with Mexico is important because we show how much we care about our foreign-political relations, how much, no matter how geographical distance we look for friends everywhere in the world, because the voice of Mexico is not meaningless, it's not irrelevant. It is not irrelevant in UNESCO, it is not irrelevant in Interpol, it is not irrelevant in the UN, it is a large and numerous country and important in South America. As important as it is, how we will fight the consequences of the migrant crisis and how we will stop as many irregular migrants at our borders as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, very often you and I, we are ordinary people, normal people, people who move in everyday life, people who communicate and talk to people who are not MPs in the National Assembly, not politicians, are not in any sense people who make decisions at the level of the state, but people that make us exist. And you and I both know how many times our fellow citizens, our neighbors express their concerns about the presence of migrants, because of the possibility of coming uncontrollably, because of the possibility of moving or settling into our space. This is one of the agreements that allows us to fight such phenomena, to preserve the everyday form, the everyday way of our lives, which allows us to guard our space, our territory, but also, more importantly than territory, the possibility of living as we're used to. The migrant crisis won't go away. It won't even pass in the term of office of this assembly. It won't pass, I'm afraid, in the political mandate of each of us. The migrant crisis will last, and it is up to us to fight its consequences, to preserve the ability of the Serbian state to react humanly, responsibly, organised, but never to allow our country to become a parking lot for migrants, to make our country an uncontrollable space where anyone settles and enters as they please. That is why it is important for us to have appropriate agreements with both the EU and our neighbours that allow us to fight against the consequences of the migrant crisis. No one can and cannot take the law into their own hands, no one can and cannot think that the state is not doing its job, so that it will organize some kind of patrol, guards. That is why you are here, and therefore I thank you for looking with great care and great responsibility, understanding, thinking, discussing this important agreement and giving the state of Serbia the opportunity to have another mechanism and another means in which we will fight against the consequences of the migrant crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to our debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3243	Thank you, Mr. Minister. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I now give my word to the representatives, or to the rapporteurs of the committees. Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3244	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've also heard from Minister Vulin about what we're going to talk about today at the tide. At its session, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives assessed that these draft laws on the validation of the agreement were in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Today, we will first talk about the bill to confirm the Agreement on Educational, Cultural and Sports Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of Mexico. In this way, we will create a new legal framework for the realisation of bilateral co-operation in the areas that I have listed, which are the very name of the Agreement. This will also create a possibility for some concreteisation of co-operation through the natural periodic programmes of improving all these areas. Then, we will talk in a plenary on the bill to confirm the status agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on actions conducted by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency in Serbia. The legal relationship and co-operation between the Agency and our country is very important. This agreement will facilitate co-operation in the area of cross-border crime. Of course, certain teams from this agency will be hired in Serbia's territory, of course based on instructions, which will act in the presence of our officers. In the end, we will talk about the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking. This is about formalizing the procedure, strengthening the system, primarily prevention, identification and protection, of course all by putting emphasis on the status of victims of human trafficking. I propose to our colleagues and colleagues that we support these agreements and because of the good bilateral relations that our country should build with those countries, but also because of the development of concrete areas, especially if we know that the government's priority is to fight all forms of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3245	Thank you. The word has the chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3246	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. I am pleased to inform you that the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs at yesterday's session has decided unanimously to propose to the National Assembly to adopt these two proposed laws, so the proposal for a law confirming the status agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on actions implemented by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency in the Republic of Serbia and the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking. This Agreement establishes a legal basis for co-operation with the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, therefore widely known as “Frontex”, which was founded in 2004, and whose competences have been extended in 2016 to prevent cross-border crime. The main task is better protection of external borders, effective management of migration flows and ensuring a high level of security, of course with respect to the national legislation of the Republic of Serbia and as only said with the presence of police officers of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the Agreement with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, we are establishing a basis for an effective joint fight against human trafficking, and I think it should also be taken into account that two weeks ago we also adopted an Agreement on Co-operation in the area of the fight against migrant smuggling with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, which speaks of how much Serbia is committed to improving capacity in the fight against crime, also when it comes to increasing the level of security in the region, but also when it comes to developing the overall bilateral relations between our two countries. Finally, I would like to conclude that every civilised state in the world wants to ensure peace, stability and security for its citizens, and that any entity, in the end of the day, could act as a necessary legal framework for such activities, so that these two agreements that are before us today will ensure that we stand in the way of the common forces of all these numbered threats that are common and know the borders. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on you to adopt these two proposed laws in the Voting Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3247	Thank you. It is now up to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has the vice president of the National Assembly, Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3248	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, are before us three laws concerning three important agreements with different topics on which we are due today and for which we should vote. The agreement, i.e. the law confirming the Agreement on Educational, Cultural and Sports Cooperation with Mexico, i.e. the United States of Mexico, falls within the order of important agreements. An important country, though we feel and know it, is far away, but also very important, although in times of particular crisis, usually the topic of education, the theme of sport, especially the topic of culture very often are neglected and do not have the importance that they should have. By adopting this law, i.e. by confirming this agreement we and as the National Assembly, but also as Government, we show capacity not to allow Kovid's crisis and all that it implies, to distract us in normal functioning, in the functioning of state bodies, and even when these topics are in question which usually gain importance in times of well-being and in times when state and society have the capacity to deal with an elite issue. I am particularly interested in educational and cultural co-operation with any country, including Mexico, and because of the fact that I am in the position of the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Information Society, which, in just a few months, shows serious activities. I don't know if we're the only committee that's already got two subcommittees, a Youth and Sports Subcommittee and a Subcommittee on Information Society and Digitalisation. Regardless of what we are at the very beginning of this mandate, the members of this Committee have shown initiative, creativity, the Committee certainly had understanding, and the rules and the system of work of the National Assembly have been comfortable enough for such a thing, so I want to share this pleasure and joy with you here, but also with all the citizens of Serbia who are following us. It actually shows that here in the National Assembly through the Committee, through this resolution board, and I am convinced that this is the case with other resolution committees, in fact, we do not allow this crisis to interfere with us, and it is not just explicit, yes, it is explicitly health care, and it is very explicit and economical. However, it is explicitly universal, it has a very clear impact on our overall and mental and mental and health and health and so wherever we can show capacity and opportunities to be initiative and to act normal, developmental, progressive, this is very important, not only for this subject and not just for what we are dealing with, but it is very important that we send the citizens a message that we are stronger than the crisis, that we are stronger than all of these challenges that are ahead of us both individually and collectively. So, the mental state, the definition that you are above, that you are stronger, that you will win, whether it's health, whether it's a crisis, are very important, and that's why we are here in the National Assembly, like all the representatives of the people in all positions, firstly invited to spread optimism, to spread the determination that every crisis, every disease, and every challenge that lies ahead of us, we win and we are stronger than it is, because actually, this atmosphere and that state of the individual, or, more precisely, that state of the spirit is crucial and in the victory of the individual who faces certain illness, but also in the intention of defeating every other challenge and every other crisis. That's why we support this agreement. The MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will give their vote in the day of voting, which, with this country, will also be a very interesting country, that it is a great distance, but it is a co-operation with the close countries of geographical and culturally close countries, it has another charm of challenges, however, a distant country like Mexico should be interesting to us precisely because of all the differences they have, because cultural exchanges, educational exchanges, and in particular, cultural exchanges, it is particularly interesting where differences are highlighted, because only in exchange with diversity, in the face of diversity and in the ability to exchange these cultural goods and experiences, in fact, there is an inseparation of its own culture. Unfortunately, we have various theories especially, and various policies that prefer certain cultural homogenizations. So, that any homogenization, ethnic homogenisation, cultural homogenisation, any homogenisation, it is initially attractive, it seems challenging, it seems to make it easier for us to survive, that it will make it easier for us to develop, because if you are yourself, if you are the same, it is easier and simpler, but it is not always, especially, almost never, simpler and easier. So, stay alone, not be with others, homogenize, ethnically, homogenize culturally, yes, simplify our functioning, make it easier for us, it'll be simpler. But simplicity never enriched culture. The diversity enriched culture. That's why it turned out, the peoples who based their policies on homogenization, they had a certain dynamic of development until they realized that homogenization, until they were able to drive others away and separate themselves from others. But from the moment they drove others away or left others, anyway. So when they split up with others, at that moment all the dynamics stopped, and the others were on their own. You can't go through with yourself. A plant, a fruit can't fertilize itself. She needs another fruit, and the fertilisation and fertilisation of this fruit is more quality if there is a difference in that other fruit. It is similar with a man, especially in a cultural or cultural dimension. It takes diversity, because it creates this positive dynamic. One of God's laws declared in the holy books is that man's entire human species were created by one man and one woman. Ladies and gentlemen, we are of a kind. Yes, there are races, that there are nations, that there are differences, but we are of the same kind, from the same man, from one man and one woman. Therefore, there is no advantage over each other in terms of belonging, ethnic, linguistic or cultural. There can be a value only in quality, and the meaning of the same sacred set, the meaning of national, racial differences is mutual knowledge, that is, in modern language, a cultural exchange to the extent of the ability of this cultural exchange, of course, to cooperate culturally, to co-operate educationally. True, you cannot establish co-operation unless you clearly and accurately define your own identity, subjectivity, self-loathing and quality. So it calls for mutual co-operation and cultural exchange must never be seen as a denial of its own identity as an idea, an ideology that has been here for half a century. Let's fraternize, the unity of giving ourselves up, so that we become something above, something third, something new, and then we kind of gave up ourselves, and we didn't become that third because that third was hybrid, impossible, not natural, it's not original, and then we stayed halfway that way and there was an identity crisis, and in fact, from the identity crisis, we get uncertainty in ourselves. When you get insecurity in yourself, individually and collectively you have the need to deny others, you have the desire and the intention and the need to eliminate others, and there are conflicts, wars, crimes, unfortunately, and everything that has bloody marked one century here in the Balkans among brothers, neighbors, similar, same, related or different. So, this should be a lesson to us, to be taught to understand that it is not a sense of community, nor is it even the meaning of reconciliation that we as a party are actively and spiritually advocated, that reconciliation or peace and co-operation are achieved in a way that disproves our own specialities. On the contrary, the safer you are in your own specialties, the more convincing you are in your culture, in your knowledge, you have more capacity, you have stronger opportunities and more confidence to make co-operation with others. Because actually cultural exchange means that you offer what you have to others, show others, completely safe and proud of what you are, and that they show you what they are so that you can share knowledge, because otherwise knowledge makes sense, all knowledge or all knowledge only makes sense to the extent that they will serve a man, to the extent that they will raise our individual and collective consciousness. Unfortunately, today, in modern human civilization, we have lost that orientation, where knowledge is not subordinated to man. We have dehumanized knowledge today. We today have a lot of knowledge, especially in what is called science, which has given up codes and ethical and fundamental, scientific, so, unfortunately, very often, we face the results of this knowledge to the harm of man, that the achievements of science are used to destroy man, either in the classic forms of war destruction, or in some others, that threaten the elemental human. That's not good. That direction of knowledge is not good. Knowledge makes sense and it is a blessing and it is a value only as long as it serves a man, while it is subordinated to a man, and it serves a man while through knowledge and through the use of that knowledge we guide and use clear, traditional, ethical principles. Besides, we have mostly damage and we have evil. That is why it is very important that a country like Serbia, like all other countries that are not so large, we are actually aware of what our main resources are. Our main resource is human. We here have good foundations for good education, and even for science, although serious science and great science implies both serious economic, financial potentials, for which only a large number of countries and large nations generally have capacity. But what we are extremely competitive in is an individual, a citizen of this country, young people, talents, by which Serbia is, but in general the Balkans, recognizable, with very intelligent, very resourceful, very ambitious people. But it is also a fact that many of our young and talented brains only experience affirmation when they leave this country. As long as that's the case, we can't be satisfied with it. So far, there have been certain bumps, there have been some steps, such as the ideas of scientific and technological parks, from the one in Petnica that's been celebrated worldwide, we have these new ones that we're working on, but we can't stop and we can't stop. We must not allow these projects to in some way be the victim of certain dust of various interest groups in education, which I have talked about before, but we must continue and get to the moment, the atmosphere in which this young talent here will have a fast tape with us and that it does not have to run to Germany, France, Benelux or Scandinavia or America to have his brain or his talent expressed itself. As for the second agreement, related to the European agency dealing with coastal and border guards, this should certainly be supported. I will only share one experience I had last year when I crossed the Bratunac border crossing from BiH to Serbia, so at our border. For the first time I faced myself, I guess in a similar co-operation that we had certain Western European police officers there, one seemed to me to be Danish uniforms and one of the Slovenian uniforms, until then I didn't even have the information that it was working, it was strange, and when I asked what it was, they informed me. But what I didn't like was that they acted like they were domestic, and our border police officers were pretty scared and confused. Even I reacted to each other and explained to them whose country this is, whose border this is, how anyone should behave, that those who came here under a certain agreement that they can do their job, but that they are not sovereign at that border but that domestic police officers are the ones who are supposed to do the job. I certainly draw attention to the fact that it may be necessary to further explain to our border police officers, eventually educate them and explain to them what their areas really are, that these officers who come under these specific agreements are guests, that they can do their job, but that they do not assume jurisdiction during these visits, or doing that job. The third agreement or law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation with Northern Macedonia on the Prevention of Human Trade is clear to you, when you say the term – human trafficking, it sounds so harshly, it sounds even morbid, it is a great burden for every man who feels the word. So, in the 21st century, unfortunately, we have almost normalized use of concepts – human trafficking. Of course, here the dimension of this crime through the issue of migrants and the migrant crisis is the most pronounced, but the issue of human trafficking is not only about migrants, but also about the various other forms of it, so to speak, of the trade, but certainly that this issue should have its own legal epilogue, or its form, as it is and certainly that we should support this agreement and we will support it in the day to vote. But what I want to point out is that these topics, such a cruel and difficult subject, must also have a more significant place in other forms of communication, media, educational and all other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3249	Thank you. I now give my word to Parliamentarian Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3250	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Vulin, co-workers and fellow MPs, I will look back at the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Northern Macedonia at the beginning of my presentation, as regards co-operation in the area against human trafficking. Since the two countries have good co-operation, which only days ago, when Serbia donated vaccines to northern Macedonia, also confirmed the country's prime minister Zoran Zaev and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, they then announced new aspects of co-operation in several areas, so it is logical and of mutual interest to agree on a common fight against human trafficking. Since both countries, both Northern Macedonia and Serbia are on the so-called The Balkan route and the signing of the Mini Schengen border between Serbia and Northern Macedonia are open to free movement of both people and goods and services and capital, a major advantage and progress, but on the other hand, it is a major security challenge. Therefore, it is also necessary to regulate the way to fight crime, in a specific case – a common fight against human trafficking. It is not necessary to lose sight of that, in addition to trafficking in weapons and narcotics, human trafficking represents the most profitable branch of organised crime and the most difficult form of human rights violations. There are numerous reasons why someone would become a victim of human trafficking. The most common are economic nature, because poverty and a poor economic position are very often the cause of someone believing in false promises of a better life and thus unconsciously becoming a victim of human trafficking. Then, it can be migration, because in this case people usually lack great choice and protection and easily become victims of criminals. Also, the increase in organised crime is closely linked to human trafficking, as it gives criminal groups the opportunity to come to great material benefits and to gain high profits. Research suggests that of all forms of human trafficking is the most represented one that takes place with the aim of sexual exploitation, and here are mainly victims of girls and young women. There are also numerous examples of a begging force that is often happening on the street in front of our eyes. Then, the coercion to commit crimes and the trap most often involves young people thinking that it is a quick and easy way to get money, but also to force marriage, as well as working exploitation. These are all examples of human trafficking, and even 80% of the victims are women and children. It should also be borne in mind that the migrant crisis has brought new challenges when it comes to combating human trafficking, and this problem is particularly affected by Serbia and Northern Macedonia. A particularly sensitive group is made up of children, especially those travelling without adult escorts. Such a relatively emerging situation requires the adaptation of the entire anti-trafficking mechanism and the whole new system of services needed to provide human trafficking victims with all necessary assistance and protection. The agreement ahead provides for all necessary mechanisms and should in many ways contribute to a more successful fight against human trafficking in the region. What are these mechanisms looking at? Besides the rest in prevention. This agreement, which we hope to adopt, envisions the implementation of the two countries' joint information campaigns to prevent human trafficking, especially children. Then, campaigns that would refer to the discovery of new trends in human trafficking, especially in the era of digital technologies, when the increasing potential for abuse is on the Internet. As one of the important aspects of prevention, it is also necessary to strengthen the socioeconomic position of vulnerable categories of people, because one of the basic reasons why people are involved in human trafficking is, as I have already mentioned, economic nature. We from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia believe that a consistent fight against crime involves primarily the fight against the causes leading to criminal acts. Unequal opportunities, hopelessness, lack of education and social difficulties are common causes of crime, but also suitable ground to slip and become a victim of crime, in this case the victim of human trafficking. That is why we from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia are seeking to tighten the fines for all crimes, because we believe that the purpose of the sanctions is to prevent crime in general. That is why, we believe, very strict penalties are necessary that will primarily prevent the reduction of the crime rate. Also, we believe that the Ministry of Interior, which plays a key role in this struggle, must be at the disposal of a sufficient number of trained personnel, as well as all modern equipment. Also, co-operation with prosecutors is necessary, but also with the Ministry of Justice when it comes to providing assistance to victims. The victim must be provided with protection, she must be informed of her rights and obligations regarding accommodation, legal assistance, assistance in obtaining documents, and assistance for voluntary return to the country of origin. The agreement on co-operation between Serbia and Northern Macedonia treats all aspects mentioned, as well as the protection of personal data. When it comes to children, the agreement provides for an assessment of all risks such as parental competencies and measures of custody protection and the provision of necessary assistance and support, all in the best interests of the child. The competent authorities of both parties to this Agreement shall keep each other informed of any procedures initiated. Serbia and Northern Macedonia are not the only countries facing these challenges. This is a broader problem, and I believe that the co-operation of the countries of the region is important and necessary in order to combat human trafficking, and the agreement that we are talking about here today, as well as current co-operation with other countries such as Austria, Slovenia, Hungary, is a testimony that Serbia is accessing this problem very responsibly and seriously. Another important security agreement is ahead of us, with regard to border co-operation and security of the border between Serbia and the EU. Serbia is bordering four EU countries, Croatia, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria. Of the total length of the border, which is 2352km, the border with EU countries is 1337km. This agreement is not only a matter or an idea of Serbia, but also an EU that wants to further strengthen security at its external borders. This is another mechanism to combat the migrant crisis. As many different views as there are and as many EU countries are divided when it comes to asylum policy, I would say, a common denominator, which is the protection of external borders, which reflects directly on non-EU countries, in this case and Serbia. We can't stay here to rule it out. It is good that we bring a legal framework that will treat this area. This agreement will allow joint operations and the engagement of teams whose activities will be aimed at halting illegal immigration, as well as cross-border crime, and can include greater technical and operational assistance at the border and that is good. What is still good and should be noted is that members of the European Border and Coast Guard Team Frontex are authorised to perform the tasks necessary for border control, but with the need to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Serbia and can carry out tasks only on the basis of instructions in the presence of police officers of the Republic of Serbia. That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia MPs in voting day will support all agreements on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3251	Thank you, colleague Karanac. The word has the mandated representative of the Single Serbia Group, Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3252	We have three agreements on the agenda today: the Agreement on Educational, Cultural and Sports Cooperation between Serbia and the United States of Mexico and two, and I would say, an agreement very important for our country's security, which is an agreement with the EU on actions and activities of the Border and Coast Guard Agency, known as Frontex, and an agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on the fight against human trafficking, known as a trade. All these three points, at least for a little while, improve our country's foreign political position, improve our country's security situation and, of course, develop educational, cultural and all other aspects of co-operation with other countries. That is why the Single Serbia parliamentary group in voting day will support all three of these agreements. Of course, the first of these three points of the agenda is the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States on Co-operation in Education or Education, Culture and Sports. In every sense, Mexico is a big country, it has a little less than two million miles [2 million km] square, and by that it is thirteenth place in the world. With 125 million inhabitants, Mexico is by the size of eleven countries in the world. According to GDP, Mexico is the 14th global economy of the world, and by the parity of purchasing power it is in the eleventh place. According to the World Tourism Organisation, Mexico is the country most tourists visit during the year in Latin America, and in the world it is 10th. Of course, the numerous natural and cultural sites of Mexico, which UNESCO has included in its world cultural heritage, contribute significantly to this, and that makes Mexico the first in America and the sixth in the world. Of course, the most important thing is that Mexico is a state that has not recognised the independence of our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija. That's one of the important reasons why we need to, and we need to develop co-operation with Mexico and with countries like Mexico. In fact, Serbia as a serious state must establish the best possible relationship not only because Mexico has not recognised Kosovo, but because in the current geopolitical situation Serbia must have the best bilateral relations with countries around the world. You know, there's no love in international politics, just interest. Serbia must find all those countries with which it shares a common interest or bar with which interests do not hair and spread every form of co-operation with such countries, because only in this way will Serbia strengthen, through this bilateral co-operation, its geopolitical position and Serbia will be able to strengthen, stronger and better to continue its fair fight to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country. Of course, it is also a way to strengthen both our economy and every other area of social life. Someone's gonna tell Mexico is away. But that's 19th-century thinking. Today, the development of information technologies, the development of traffic and transport does not exist inaccessible, inaccessible and far away places on the planet. The state as Mexico is a country of great cultural heritage, there are over 30,000 archaeological sites, as many as 68 official languages are spoken in Mexico. Mexico was once the land of Olmek, Astek and Maya, and today it is the most powerful representative of Latin America. Mexico is a country that has and develops a strong education system, like someone who works in education, and I followed that. Mexico has a mandatory primary education of six years, from six to 12 years of child's life, has a three-year high school, has two types of secondary schools, has a primary school, so on. secondary vocational education and has a secondary or secondary vocational education and preparatory, it is a high school that teaches students for and prepares them for college and university. The universities of Mexico and colleges follow the tradition of their northern neighbour of the United States and are well-quoted on the world lists of universities. Mexico is a state of extremely strong media. Mexico is state and sport, especially football. All of this goes in favour of the agreement between Mexico and Serbia, through the exchange of students and students, through scientific, educational, cultural co-operation, we will also strengthen political and economic ties with this country that may be miles away, but by mentality very close. Mexico has Cicanica, Teotihuan, Palenka, Serbia has Gracanica, Studenica, Manasija, Sopocana. Serbia has Ivo Andric, Mexico has Octavia Paz. Mexico's got mariachi, it's got Carlos Santana. Serbia has folklore, has Goran Bregovic. Mexico has a well-known pastimes, but in recent times, Serbian production has speeded up and you arrive at that Mexican, we have a naturally developed film industry. So Serbia and Mexico have something to offer each other and not only in areas that treat this agreement, but also in many other areas, such as the economy, such as foreign policy, etc. In any case, this agreement is good, and speaking of such agreements, we have always stressed that we from the JS consider each of these agreements to be slightly, at least one millimeter stronger in Serbia's foreign policy position in the world, and that is why we will support this agreement. The second agreement on the agenda today is an agreement with the EU, on actions and activities of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, known as Frontex. The agreement is signed if I am not mistaken last November 2019 and we need to confirm this agreement today. This agreement of course allows Frontex to help Serbia manage the borders towards EU countries, implement joint actions, organise joint operational teams and carry out all the activities that the state of Serbia agrees with. Of course this is important, because we were talking almost about an agreement with Northern Macedonia on illegal migrant crossing. This point is also related to the next item of the agenda, which is the agreement with Northern Macedonia on preventing human trafficking, because one and the other activities are very often related to border crossings, illegal border crossings, and therefore any assistance in border control and preventing such unwanted activities is desirable and good for the state of Serbia. The migrant crisis, as has already been said, continues. It is not that intensity as it was in 2015, but certainly it is still going on and in this sense, this co-operation between our authorities and Frontex is very important, especially if we have seen that more than a million migrants have passed through Serbia since 2015 and had in mind the fact that in 19 reception centres there are around 6,000 migrants in Serbia today, of which 660 children. Of course, this agreement is primarily a security agreement but it is also an agreement that has an impact on both the economy and other segments of society but certainly an agreement with the EU, every kind of agreement with the EU, as I say, is approaching Serbia's EU, to that goal that we have declared in our official policy. As for the third item of the agenda, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on preventing human trafficking, human trafficking is a major global problem. According to the UN definition, this means recruiting, transport, transfer, face accommodation or reception, using a threat or using force and for exploitation purposes. The reasons for the phenomenon are different from individual individuals, especially women in the situation of the trade, come from reasons of unemployment, poverty, lack of education and so on. In the world, about two million and 400,000 people become victims of human trafficking, and traders earn a profit of over three billion dollars a year. A new report by the International Organisation for Migration shows that 120,000 women are trafficked into EU countries each year and the largest number of those 120,000 enter the EU via the Balkans. What does that mean? This means that Serbia and Macedonia are countries where the victims of the trafficker are in transit, but not only in transit but also in transit except that they are transitory, both Serbia and Macedonia and the countries of destination and the countries of origin of the victims of the trafficker. Let me just say that in Serbia, in 2018, 76 victims of human trafficking were identified, including 34 women and 18 children. Most often when it comes to women, they are citizens of foreign origin from Moldova, Romania and Ukraine. The state of Serbia has decided to trade or trade people through its legal frameworks, namely Article 388. The criminal law deals with this issue, and that Article 388 is also incorporated into the Law on the Prevention of Trade of Humans in Section 4 where the taxation of criminal offences treated by this law is clearly and precisely cited in Article 4(17) and human trafficking as a criminal offence. The state of Serbia has done much more to prevent human trafficking. In 2017, a fight strategy was adopted to prevent human trafficking. The Council for Combating Human trafficking was also formed in 2017. I said, human trafficking is a global phenomenon and affects all countries, not only the poor, not just countries in a difficult economic situation that are the most common countries of origin of victims of trafiking or a country in transition, it also affects countries that are destination. These are the more developed, richer countries that often end up victims of a trafficker. The goal of human trafficking is to make a profit or some other benefit through exploitation, whether it's sexual exploitation or some other kind of exploitation. What are the most common forms of human trafficking? The most common forms of human trafficking are sexual exploitation, forced prostitution, then forced labour, forced begging, forced committing crimes, organ trafficking, forced housework, or forced marriages. Of course, this crime and this unwanted social phenomenon are important and the fight against it is very important, it is primarily about the sphere of elementary human rights, dignity and freedom, and since JS stands for these values we will also support this point of the agenda in the voting day. Let me get this straight in the end. All three agreements, at least for a little while, will improve the foreign security, economic and any other position of our country and the JS parliamentary group will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3253	Thank you, colleague Starčević. The word has the mandated representative of the SVM parliamentary group, MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3254	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of the presentation on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, I would like to announce that our parliamentary group will support all draft laws on the agenda in the day of the vote. Do not dispute the importance of the proposed topics you will allow me to pay special attention to the 6th point in my address, this is a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking and signed by the two governments on 16 December 2019. The Republic of Serbia is conducting international co-operation based on bilateral and multilateral agreements with neighbouring countries. In this regard, I recall that ten days ago, the National Assembly also adopted the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on Co-operation in the area of the fight against migrant smuggling and that by confirming these agreements, Serbia and Northern Macedonia demonstrate their willingness to co-operate in areas that pose a serious problem for all countries located on the so-called so-called. The Balkan route. These agreements form part of the commitments that the Republic of Serbia has made with an action plan for the negotiating chapter 24. Justice, freedom and security, which, among other things, provides for the adoption of a multi-annual integrated border management strategy, and the government's current strategy has reached for the period 2017 to 2020. The importance of the EU attaches effective border control to the fact that on 10 February 2021, the third tranche of the IPA 2016 funds was transferred to an integrated border management project and through a sectoral reform contract. The main objective or controls carried out by the border services are, among other things, the removal of threats to the state border, the protection of the public order and the security of the Republic of Serbia, the preservation of health and the environment. The achievement of those objectives protects both citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of neighbouring countries, and the conclusion of an anti-trafficking agreement protects the border between Serbia and Northern Macedonia over 283km. Why is it an important border with Northern Macedonia? UN High Commissioner for Refugees data say that 24.180 refugees and migrants entered Serbia from January to November 2020, with a convincingly large number of 74% from the north of Macedonia. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians sees the Agreement on a common fight against human trafficking as an extremely important step in seeking long-term sustainable solutions, as we all know well that the migrant crisis, unfortunately, will not go away as the distinguished Mr. Minister said. There are more and more migrants who want to go West and there in the West to start a new life. The migrant crisis is a common problem throughout Europe, including the world, and it is important that we develop all levels of co-operation with our neighbours and with the EU, it is important that we be part of a global solution. Since 2015, when an increased inflow of migrants in Serbia began, the EU has donated more than 130m euros to Serbia. Only for 2021, at the beginning of this year, the EU identified an additional 13m euros. There is no doubt that Serbia has passed a test since 2015, when 100,000 migrants passed our country, but it is important that we look for long-term global sustainable solutions, along with neighbours and together with the EU. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm undermining long-term solutions, because the attitudes of SVM are being interpreted in different ways, so we're being criticised for being against migrants. I want to be precise, the SVM is the attitude that a solution to the problem of illegal migration must be sought in a triangle that makes up humanity, security and dignity of man. Humanity is the freedom, freedom of every resident in Serbia and the freedom of every migrant entered in the rules of procedures and laws. The law must be a measure of freedom for every man, for both the domicile population and the migrants. So, no less than... For an SVM measure of humanity, respect for laws, regulations and procedures. It is not disputed that good words and good intentions are important, but lasting regional and global sustainable solutions only lead to respect for regulations and procedures. Finally, this is also why we support the Anti-Trafficking Agreement and why in November 2016, we supported amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, in the part relating to the tightening of criminal policy for the crime, disallowing the crossing of state borders and smuggling of people from Article 350. Because only through the improvement of the right framework can we talk about the safety of individuals and the safety of the entire society, but also about the safety and safety of migrants, because all analyses warn that refugees and migrants are a social group that is in practice most often excluded from the system of human rights protection, and that their approach to justice is practically unreachable. When we talk about security, we also talk about the safety of individuals in the existential safety of residents in the North-Bath and North-Banat environments, for example, in Subotica, Kanjiza, Horgos, Majdan, Vrbica, Rabe and Banat Arangelovo. However, it is difficult to talk about safety when on a daily basis accidents in the attics, in the houses, both in the empty, so-inhabited, where the fire is lit, so they occur and regret, and unfortunately the houses are burned out. The Vrbica Hunting House was also burned down, so they noticed in time and didn't burn down completely. It's hard to talk about safety, when they're being spent in football locker rooms, breaking into cultural art societies, for example, in Majdan, in Rabe, stealing in houses, orchards, gardens, alienation, not only private, but public property, in every house where migrants are, unfortunately, stealing electricity from the bandits, I've seen it with my own eyes. When there is no security for the individual, we cannot even talk about the safety of the settlement, and national international security is also at stake. Without the safety of individuals and the safety of every small settlement on the border with Hungary and Romania, we cannot talk about freedom or humanity. In three border settlements, Majdan, Rabe, Vrbica, with about 100-120 residents, residents live in fear, because despite actions taken to remove migrants, they keep coming back trying to enter Romania and Hungary. In some villages, such as Majdan, there are more migrants than residents. People are afraid, they can't go out at night, they can't even go to the store. It is mainly about nursing households, and in these villages more than 500 migrants are constantly living. We bet it's inadmissible and unacceptable. It is a similar situation in the municipality of Kanjiž and in the territory of the town of Sutotica and in the West-Bačka district, e.g. in Somboro. I want to point out that in everyone, I mean our population and illegal migrants, there's only fear that they use organized groups of smugglers, so it's common knowledge that cab drivers share visa cards in Arabic, so they know exactly where the gatherings are and where the borders cross. We all know that migrants must be in reception centres and, according to NGOs dealing with the issue of migrants in Serbia, there are currently about 6,100 people in reception centres, but we are witnessing that migrants are leaving reception centres and that our taxi drivers are helping them reach certain locations. Migrants are brought by taxi drivers from Belgrade, from Kikinda, from Sudotica, and most of them from Somboro to settlements where they live between 100 and 120 people. The head of our parliamentary group, Dr Balint Pastor, spoke on several occasions here in the National Assembly about this problem, and a month ago he asked the Prime Minister about this problem. Without exaggeration, in the border areas of Vojvodina the situation is alarming, and according to data from December 2020 more than 2,000 people are out of camps and especially in Vojvodina. I repeat, the only solution is respect for the law. Our point is that we need to solve the problem where it came from. We believe that after the war conflicts, migrants should return to their own country and that we should all support them. We believe that only a combination of measures can lead to a shift in problem solving. Certainly, the deployment of additional forces of the MUP and Gendarmeria, the joint forces of the police and the Serbian Army, as well as the joint international police forces have produced visible results. It is extremely important for us to have the MUP react when the representatives of local self-government address them, when representatives of local communities and all those residents living in these settlements and it is extremely important for us to investigate each case. Last week, I visited the municipality of the New Prince and the Municipality of Chok. More specifically, I was in the settlements of Rabe and Majdan in the Municipality of Novi Knezevac and in Vrbica in the Municipality of Čoka. The villages are on the three-way border, the border of Serbia with Romania and Hungary. Migrants are coming to the three-way to tour the fence that Hungary has built. They are entering the territory of Romania and are trying to enter the territory of Hungary. According to the information we received, migrants have their own coordinators who let them know exactly when those migrants who make it to Hungary are driving them to Austria, then to Germany. In this way, migrants become victims of smuggling at their own request. You know exactly the tariffs from Turkey to Greece and how much it costs to travel from Greece to Germany. Without dilemma, keeping this situation under control is a major challenge for security forces in both Serbia and Romania and Hungary, especially the southern border with Northern Macedonia. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to show you some pictures that illustrate the previous allegations. Here, for example, this first picture, it shows the entrance to the village of Majdan. Look how many migrants there are here. Same picture taken in the village of Majdan. I would like to repeat, honourable Members of the People, that between 100, 120 citizens of the Republic of Serbia live in these settlements, and more than 500 migrants live. In this picture you can see the former building MZ Majdan. Look at what the entrance looks like and this next picture is also the room of the former MZ Majdan building. I want to remind everyone that this is property of the state of the Republic of Serbia, that this is public property. I took this picture in the village of Verbica. It's an abandoned house. I have another picture. This painting was taken in Rabe, a small place, the same abandoned house where migrants live. The inhabitants of these settlements whose property has been destroyed and estranged rightly question the possibility of subsequent damage done. I wasn't even talking about the amount of garbage in those places. No one's talking about who's gonna take it. We also ask all competent institutions, including the EPS, to step up control and intensify data collection from all places that are the point of migrant gathering on their way to the EU. We ask the competent institutions to control more closely the work of taxi carriers, as well as the stay of migrants in reception centres. The Grand Duchy of Hungarians is here. We can help. Our councilmen, representatives of the local communities, are on the ground. We know the situation on the ground. We have credible data. The migration crisis Serbia did not cause, the minister mentioned earlier, nor could it solve it, but once again we appeal that it is important to safeguard the southern border, that it is important to control the entry and stay of migrants in our country. It is clear that this is a topic that can determine not only Serbia's future, but also the future of the region, even the EU. Clearly, this is a large and extremely sensitive topic. I repeat, the law is a measure of the freedom of every man both the population of the Republic of Serbia and of the migrants. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians wants us to join together as correct partners to solve this difficult task and to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So I repeat our appeal, with great respect and great respect for the efforts and efforts of the police and the gendarmes, we repeat the request that both the President of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be present in settlements which are on the way to the crossing of migrants. We know it may sound strange, but for members of the Hungarian national minority, the presence of the military means a guarantee of peace, personal security and general security. We ask you to stay in the field for at least ten days and return the migrants to the reception centres every day and to control the taxis every day. I also invite Mr. Home Secretary to visit together the populated towns of Majdan, Rabe, Vrbica and Banatsko Arangelovo, to get acquainted with the situation on the ground, with people who with fear and suspense welcome each day. Finally, once again, I would like to confirm that the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians will support all proposed laws, agreements and reports in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3255	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3256	Dearly beloved, Serbia has not caused a migrant crisis. Serbia does not have the slightest responsibility for the migrant crisis. Of course, a very well-founded question arises – and why do these people come from Afghanistan, Pakistan, why do these people even go their own way often from countries where the EU is and NATO has invested hundreds of billions of dollars, such as in Afghanistan, to sort out the situation, to introduce democracy as they experience it, to decide how to live in these countries? From those countries where they have tens of thousands of soldiers and hundreds of billions of dollars spent, people run away with their heads regardless. Why? It is not for Serbia to say, it is not for Serbia to decide on it, but it is for it to think about it as well. So Serbia is neither the cause nor the consequence of the migrant crisis. Serbia is just where it is and nothing else. The migrant crisis killed the idea of European solidarity. The migrant crisis, when it peaked in 2015, has shown that the EU has no coherent solution when it comes to the migrant crisis. Every country fights for itself as it knows and can. As far as Serbia is concerned, we would be most fortunate if there was a common solution, if there were some kind of attitude, if the EU knew what it wanted with these people or not with those people. You know, we have a pretty weird, really paradox, that a significant number of migrants on our territory comes from the EU. They come from Bulgaria. First, they come directly to us from Bulgaria, and to Northern Macedonia they come from Greece. So, from the EU through us who are not members of the EU to the EU. Serbia is very responsible for the consequences of the migrant crisis, we are very organized. The very fact that you have brought forth, the honourable MP, that there are now about 6,000 migrants in Serbia, and over a million people, has passed through, speaks with the attention of how much we have devoted ourselves to this problem and how every day life of each of you MPs, me, our families is not upset. The largest number of MPs and places where they come from has never seen a single migrant, ever. The fact is, we have a big problem in the north of our country. You know I've come here myself and the director of the police and that they're constant actions and that we'll do it all the time. When it comes to the use of the military, we cannot use the military, the European rules. Serbia is a country on the European path and must respect certain rules. So, the army must not be at the border. The rule was only broken when it came to a covid, so Austria threw its army towards Italy, so some other countries threw their army towards the borders, but this is sacred European selfishness. We are not EU members, we have no right to be selfish. We need to be broad-minded, large, and those who are members of the EU, if they don't, they can guard their borders and their armies if they want to, and we can't. So we have to follow those rules. It can only be the police, it can be the gendarmes. I don't see anything strange about you saying that members of the Hungarian national minority are pleased to see the gendarme. Of course. As are members of the Bosniak national minority when they saw the gendarmes working in Novi Pazar. When the state works, everyone has to be satisfied. And when the state behaves fairly, everyone has to be satisfied. Of course we'll continue to act that way. I can't give you a solution. I'd be happiest if I could tell you – we'll close our border hermetically, no one will ever enter again. I'm afraid that's not possible. We defend our borders and this agreement towards Northern Macedonia, defend our borders and Bulgaria, defend our borders as we know and know it, but there is no solution until the EU has once decided what it wants with these people. Does he want those millions or not? It shows it will. I'm sorry they didn't agree, and we suggested it in 2015, make reception centers in Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Libya, make reception centers and tell people who can't, who can't. Once he sells everything he has and pays the smugglers he never comes back. There's no going back. Unfortunately, the return of migrants from all over the EU is measured in migrating. There isn't. She was trying to pay the EU something, some tickets, some repatriates, no such thing. Whoever came here once doesn't come back. It's not simple, it's not up to us, it's just not up to us. We will fight, defend. Thank you MPs, ladies and gentlemen, for helping us. You give me some mechanism to have something to fight for, even though it's all so thin, so weak, so insufficient and insufficient. Every country in the EU defends itself and Serbia must defend itself and try to find as many allies as possible in that defence. Don't kid yourself. Every country thinks it best if this problem is transferred to the next one. That's why it's important for us to also have these mechanisms so that we don't let them move on to us or make it easier for us not to move on to us. Every country from Turkey to Germany, everyone thinks it's best if it goes somewhere, that it's someone else's problem. This is our way of fighting that problem. It won't stop. I fear that in our political generation, it will certainly not stop, that the migrant crisis will not end. I am absolutely convinced that European solidarity on the issue of the migrant crisis is not there, as it was not for vaccines either, but more than that for the migrant crisis there is no, that she is completely killed and that everyone will try to transfer the burden of the crisis to weaker and less developed countries. It's up to us to fight. Thank you and thank you so much for your patience for every agreement, for discussing, for thinking, for supporting us, because it's our legal mechanism to fight. We don't have any other way. I'm really grateful for that. You know, let's tell that to all our citizens. The state of Serbia will never become a parking lot for migrants. All the nonsense and lies we've heard in this high house about how 400,000 migrants have already been inhabited in southern Serbia, cities are being built for them, roads. You know, when in Vršac municipality, for example, separate money for refugees, different irresponsible people come out, first of all I think about the Dvori, is that what they call themselves, there's a political extraparliamentary organization that talks about it often, come out and say -- that's money for those from Serbia, Afghanistan. No, the migrants and refugees aren't the same, you learn already. The refugee is the one who got refugee status, and it's usually our countrymen who suffered during the wars of the 90s or internally displaced persons who were expelled from the KIM space. No Afghan in this country has been granted refugee status. They're not refugees, they're migrants. When you get a draft budget item in your municipalities that says - building a refugee house is meant by Serbs coming from Croatia from BiH or internally displaced persons coming from the KIM area. We didn't build a house for any Syrian, we didn't build a tent. Enough of those lies. You're scaring people, and you're doing it on purpose. And then you give various psychopaths a chance to live on some people, to make Serbia a disgusting place, which is not. We have proven ourselves human, but as an organized society, which protects its own space, which protects its way of life. I listened to criticisms that referred to various European forums towards the Republic of Hungary. And they're wrong. They're protecting their space. And why shouldn't they protect their space? They have the right not to allow their structure to change. They have the right not to let their culture change. They have the right to respect international law. You know, it's not far from reason to ask a question – wait, what can I do without a passport to Germany? And why can't I from Serbia go into Austria without a single problem? What? Because I'm not from Afghanistan? Then let's end international law. Let's shut down the passport system. A lot of questions are being asked here and it's not up to me to discuss them, but it's up to me to ask you to give me a chance, to give me another mechanism to fight against the consequences of the migrant crisis. What's Europe gonna do with that? I don't know, I really don't know, nobody knows. They don't know what they're gonna do with it, and especially I don't know. But please, give me a chance, give me another small mechanism that in collaboration with the countries around us I try to control this process. That process won't stop. How will the great European countries do so, and why do they allow it? It's their right. I'm sorry that we are, unfortunately, on the way to their right. They better have agreed in 2015, so how long it takes to get them on planes and bring them straight to Berlin. Better. No, they're not. They just didn't. So thank you for that, and thank you for understanding. I, like I said, was in all the municipalities and always will be. Thank you for understanding these people. It's not easy. In villages with 150 inhabitants every day, we get 400 people, people you don't know anything about, who don't speak your language, you don't know their intentions, you don't know who they are, you don't know what they are, it's not pleasant, of course. But I am grateful for the trust they show to their country and see that their country takes care of them and takes care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3257	Thank you. Replica, Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3258	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, we trust you, we trust the President of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Just some more information to give you. Lately, about 50 houses have broken into, unfortunately, migrants, for example, only in Majdan. Four houses were burned down, unfortunately, and they broke into the church. Now I'm going to give you a detail that's really, really, really, I don't have a word. Migrants go to the cemetery, take the wooden cross, and with that lodge. Please help us. The situation is really alarming. Please send the gendarmes to those settlements, if that's possible, and control the taxi carriers as well. It's an extremely sensitive subject, but I say once again, we trust you, and I hope that once again we'll end all this and hopefully we'll really work together in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3259	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Tomic, authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3260	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us three sets of international agreements that are very important and will make a significant contribution to Serbia's further progress, when it comes to the sphere of education, science, culture, sports, but also the security and security of our citizens, and in any case, when it comes to Serbia's better position on the foreign policy plan. In the previous period, when we talk about foreign policy, a lot has been done. Many concrete activities have been done thanks to, above all, the policy led by our President, Alexander Vukic, and with successful support and realization by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, our international position has been strengthened and today Serbia is a reliable and reliable partner not only of countries in the environment, but of a large number of countries around the world, when it comes to the economy, but also of the fight and against crime, against irregular migration, human trafficking. In addition, we are leaders in the region when it comes to economic development, but also because we are giving significant initiatives to help strengthen the whole region. When it comes to the fight against crime, the fight against the illegal crossing of our borders and human trafficking, Serbia is determined to deal with this and get in the way. Otherwise, a large number of international agreements with other countries have been signed in the previous period, where we are fighting this together. I will remind you that for the last time in the Assembly, we have discussed and adopted an agreement with Northern Macedonia when it comes to combating irregular migration. Today there is a new agreement with this country, where we will jointly improve the fight against human trafficking, we will work on a systematic solution to this problem, to prevent, identify, protect, send cooperation and return of victims with access based on the protection of human rights of victims of human trafficking. Thus, the aim of this Agreement itself is to integrate it into the domestic justice system, i.e. the judicial system, which will enable its application with the aim of coordinating national activities to combat trafficking in human beings and aligning the procedures of the competent national authorities of the two countries in order to succeed in this. Otherwise, this Agreement should provide a basis for further strengthening and improving co-operation in preventing trafficking in human beings in a comprehensive way through exchange of information, strengthening capacity and professional development, and all in order to detect, enlighten and prevent criminal acts in the field of combating trafficking in human beings, in order to reduce their number and mitigate their consequences. When we talk about an agreement with the EU regarding the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, this Agreement, as the minister stressed, will make a significant contribution to the further fight against irregular migration, to protect our borders, but also to give security and security to our citizens and citizens of neighbouring countries that are members of the EU. Confirmation of this Agreement will allow its application to facilitate and speed up the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with EU Member States in combating and combating cross-border crime and the control of illegal migration, with a view to strengthening the protection of the state border, which includes certainly technical assistance to the Republic of Serbia by this European Agency. When it comes to the fight against crime and the protection and security of our citizens, we know that President Aleksandar Vukic has launched a decisive fight against crime and that he has an absolutely whole state behind him and all the resources she has to make in this fight that is being fought as winners. Otherwise, the arrest of the organized Belivuk criminal group is a proof of our ability, our willingness and determination to counter crime and never again be in a position to overpower the state, and we have had opportunities, unfortunately, in the past to see such situations and we have felt the consequences of such action. I want, for the sake of the public, to point out that this group that was brought in is much stronger and more organized than the Zemun clan against whom the state fought and how it fought. When we talk about co-operation with neighbouring countries, I would also like to mention the "Mini Schengen" initiative launched by our President Aleksandar Vukic, with the desire to establish better and stronger co-operation with neighbouring countries. Currently, Northern Macedonia and Albania joined the initiative, but certainly the invitation stands for other neighbouring countries. Otherwise, this cooperation should be in favor of all of us, because many of the problems we're talking about here today in the plenary room, we can certainly solve it more effectively if we cooperate with each other and with all the joint forces. Let's just look at the issue of fighting the pandemic when it comes to vaccination. It is clear to all that the Republic of Serbia is absolutely the best, when it comes to obtaining vaccines, but also when it comes to carrying out activities in the form of collective immunisation. Otherwise, we have obtained approximately two million doses of vaccines so far for the needs of the vaccination of our citizens and to ensure the health of people, and we are slowly approaching large numbers and that million when it comes to the vaccination and revaccination of citizens. We have an excellent digital system with the help of people to quickly and effectively schedule vaccination terms, and this process itself is actually being effectively implemented, and we have had the opportunity to hear and confirm from those extraparliamentary oppositions who via their Twitter orders came forward, because in no other way they do not want to admit that Serbia and that the state is working successfully and doing their job. Our success, and when it comes to this process, does not prevent us from being solid and helping our neighbours, so we have had the opportunity to see the initiative that the president has launched and implemented, which is that a certain amount of doses are given to our neighbours, such as northern Macedonia, such as Montenegro, such as Republika Srpska. Otherwise, to point out that precisely thanks to these doses received by the Republic of Serbia, they have launched their collective immunisation process and are fighting for the health of their population. So as a state, we have shown solidarity, shown friendship, and shown that we care about helping the whole region and dealing with these problems together. But we didn't stop there. Let's take a step further, so President Vukic has also initiated that the Institute "Torlak" is considering the conditions and is working to launch the production of a Russian vaccine against the Corona "Sputnik Ve", which is largely under way. The project itself is not only important for citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the long term to ensure the production of vaccines that will definitely have to be used in the coming period, but also for the entire region, as countries from the region will be able to obtain these vaccines from the Republic of Serbia. So, this is another proof that we are really working in solidarity and that these initiatives and ideas that we are launching should also have a long-term effect, but also an effect beyond the borders of our country. When I touched on the topics of vaccination and health, just to point out that when it comes to the health system, we did not start to deal with this problem from recently, but from the moment that we started the difficult reforms that President Vukic started to prevent the bankruptcy of the Republic of Serbia and decided to solve problems that the predecessors did not know, but simply didn't want to solve. Large funds are also invested in hospital reconstructions. There is no city in Serbia where something has not been done about the city's health system, and it is still very much done. It's about reconstruction and the infirmary, the infirmary building, the health care homes, it's also about clinical centres. We've had opportunities over the past few years and to open up a new building of the clinic center in Nis. It is a reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia and an expansion of capacity. It is also at the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases Dedinje 2, it will be done and done when it comes to the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, the Clinical Centre of Kragujevac. What is the crown of success is the construction of two kovids of the hospital in Batajnica and Kruševec. And when those who are sorry that Serbia is making progress and what has been successful in this whole struggle said that these hospitals are unnecessary, that it is impossible to do this, we rolled up our sleeves and over a period of only four months successfully completed this project and our health system and infrastructure expanded from two modern buildings that contributed to successfully fighting the crown and saving a large number of lives, we continue to save a large number of Serbian citizens' lives. It was also a medical supply, equipment. I'll mention there's a new scan of the VMA that came in last. If it hadn't been for President Vukic to fight to reach a large number of respirators, who at the initial stage of this pandemic were very important, and if we had listened to tycoons who said it wasn't doing so, there were always some reasons to say it wasn't good, we would, as unfortunately, and some more developed countries than we today decide which person will end up on the respirator, who will be left to die. Fortunately, thanks to the determined leader we have, he did not allow such a scenario to happen in Serbia, because the policy he is leading is a policy where the lives and interests of Serbian citizens are always first. Simply put, the works speak of the politics of Alexander Vukic, not of the likes, tweets and comments of the politics of the yellow tycoons. When it comes to the agreement with the United States, it is about co-operation in the field of education, in the area of culture and sports. This Agreement will establish a more high-quality type of co-operation that was launched in 1960 during the former Yugoslavia. I can say that I am proud to live in Serbia, in a country where we have many young talents, many successful citizens who achieve great results both in the sphere of science and in the sphere of sport and in the sphere of culture, and a large number of recognitions and awards that they achieve and quality results on international projects are just proof of how many countries think of them, how many countries they invest and should continue to invest in the development of this sector. I will only point out that at a press conference, when Astra-Zenek was admitted to the vaccine, UK Ambassador Shan MacLeod said that our scientists were involved in the development of this vaccine today, which is successful in the fight against the crown. Where will you do the greater thing for pride in this situation when we talk about our people, our scientists and this sphere? There are no international projects, as I said, where our scientists didn't contribute at least a little bit, not only to achieve significant knowledge, but also elements that are relevant to the development of the economy. We have athletes, the successes of our athletes, whom we are all proud of, and that is all because the state is investing and will continue to invest in the development of sports infrastructure, so that young people can develop themselves further. When it comes to culture, significant funds are also invested in this segment. We have had the opportunity to hear from our colleagues that we have both a successful and developed cinematographic industry, which now deals with both our past and some facts that we must not allow to be forgotten, which we simply have to remember, as a kind of lesson for future generations and a better future for our country. So a large number of museums and objects of culture are renovated, reconstructed, it's about digitising our cultural heritage and its promotion at international level. Another important way we can develop this entire segment is by these very international agreements and exactly the agreement that lies before us today. It will open up the possibility that our citizens, the people of this sphere, together with their colleagues from the United States, can develop projects, realize them, both in their country and in our country, to use the capacities and potentials that we as a state have. Why shouldn't astronomers from the United States work together on the largest telescope in the Balkans in Vidojevica? Why should young people not attend programs at our research station Petnica, which is otherwise a unique institution of educational character, not only in this region, but throughout the world? Why not jointly develop projects and use the capacities of scientific and technological parks built in Serbia, Starar, Nis, Cačka, the scientific and technological park built in Novi Sad and other parks that will be built across Serbia? It's simple for them to exchange knowledge and experience and thus upgrade themselves. Otherwise, the importance of these agreements, the importance of investment in the field of education and science was also discussed by President Vukic when he was actually talking about the progress of our economy and about attracting investments in Serbia, because as we know Serbia is a country that is champion of foreign direct investment. In 2019, we had 3.6 billion euros in foreign direct investment. In 2020, which was hit and marked by the pandemic of the virus's corona, which is a global challenge, we remained champions because we managed to attract 2.9 billion euros of foreign direct investment and bring into Serbia world brands such as "Tojo Tyres", "Boysena", ZTF, "Brosea" and others. Otherwise, it is proof of the success of implementing President Vukic's policy, which is seen through new jobs that are being opened, raising the standard of living in our country. In addition, success is also a success that fell to below 10% in Serbia 2020, and when in some developed world countries it grew multiple, and yet I will mention it purely because of Serbian citizens, this is more than two and a half times the unemployment rate we inherited in 2012 when the SNS came to power. The policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic and the implementation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia can be described simply as a policy that is directed at every man and thus is clearly put to the attention, and not only in words, but in concrete works, that citizens are really in the first place. Also, the state has created conditions, not only infrastructure, but economic, health and others, that young people return after schooling abroad, after completing their professional training and that these skills can be implemented in this country, to help further grow our economies. President Aleksandar Vucic and what the SNS did in the previous period is actually a success in turning young people into a country where young people decide to stay, to return, to decide to form their families, because they see no better chance of living and working than in their Serbia. With the support of these agreements that we are discussing today, we will give another one in a series of contributions to achieving the objectives set before both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and before us, which is to create even better conditions for our children, to live, to work in their country and to further strengthen Serbia's position when it comes to the international scene. As Minister Vulin said, we should personally give him another mechanism with the help he will be able to fight this great challenge that has hit the world, which is this irregular migration of people from the Middle East. In the voting day, the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children will support the above-mentioned proposals for the agreement that I was talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3261	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3262	Aleksandar Vukic is the only free leader in the Balkans. The only one. The only one who can tell the truth and the EU, and his international community and his people. The only one. I had the privilege and privilege of being in front of the MPs when we passed a Labour Act that was more than unpopular at the time, and if it hadn't been for that Labour Act that you'd be building today a hospital code, which would have defended Serbia today from the consequences of the migrant crisis, which would have increased the salaries of the military and the police and the BIA, which would have given us today the third round to help our population. Alexander Vukic had the courage to tell his people what no one had ever told him – you have to save and you have to work. These are very unpopular sentences in Serbian politics. You can't say that if you want to win the election. Alexander Vukitch said that. When the people saw that what he was saying and that he was acting and living the way his people lived, he gave him many more victories in the election. The only free leader in the Balkans can therefore defend the country against the consequences of the migrant crisis, so it can strengthen its country, so it can protect Serbs no matter where they live, because it has the courage to be free. I often tell him that for his peace policy, on the other hand, in the Balkans, he rarely has sincere conversators. It is his choice to fight for peace policy, often at his own expense. Alexander Vukic was tried to kill at Srebrenica. No one has ever referred a word of apology, let alone provided us with a name that tried to kill the first among the Serbs in front of the cameras of the whole world. We never got an apology, formal, diplomatic, dishonest, hypocritical, not even that. He never allowed this to reflect relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. Never. I'm talking to you like a man -- I'm not sure I could stand it that way if it happened to me. You see, he has shown that the more important state of Serbia and Serbs and international politics and the position of Serbia is more important to him than it is to him. They tried to kill him. They tried to lynch him. He was supposed to be dead. Fortunately, he was not killed, and then he built highways towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not everyone can do that. It's a statesman. That's the difference between statesmen and politicians. That's the big difference. You were talking about a bunch of hospitals. At the time, I was the defence minister and was ordered by the commander-in-chief of the Serbian Army, President Vukic, to build a covid hospital in seven days. I didn't follow that order, we built it in 12 days, but Serbia has shown it can. And she could, because she had a firm and clear leadership. In times of crisis, it is shown how important it is to have political stability and clear leadership. Imagine that in times of crisis, like in Italy, we had a political charm that sounds very nice, it's very sweet for democracy, but imagine that as in Italy, the central government is sending orders to the province governments, the province government says – well, I don't care, and the mayors say – we're the smartest, we're going to do what we want. In Serbia, thought and thought were thought, worked from one centre, and therefore one of the reasons why we were so successful is that we are so successful in fighting the birds. Imagine that we allowed political disputes to be transferred to the field, as has been happening in Italy and many other countries. In difficult times, you see how important it is to have a politically stable country and a clear leader, how important it is to have a man to whom the nation trusts, so it goes before the nation and says what the nation doesn't want to hear, what it won't hear, what it objectes to, but says – I believe that man. I trust him. Other countries didn't have that, and they had to explain and fight in the streets. We had and we have a man we trust, Alexander Wolfich, a man who when he tells us we know it's true. Sometimes we disagree with that truth, sometimes we're angry about it, but it's true. We know they won't lie to us or cheat on us ever. That's one of the reasons we're so successful. When we built hospitals in Batajnica and Kruševec, it was a mockery, it was an avalanche of insult and ridicule – a past crisis, what you build, who needs it, you will not succeed. Excuse me, there's more than a thousand people being treated in these hospitals right now. And where would they be if it wasn't for that? Who would you take the bed with? How many of our parents wouldn't be able to perform some kind of intervention that they would normally have had to perform if it wasn't for those hospitals? Where would they lie if we had to deploy these thousands of people to all the other hospitals? Where would they operate? Where would we go to oncology? Where would the people be if it wasn't for this? President Vukic endured that mockery and that hatred and insult and did so. If it hadn't been for that, it would have been a lot harder in Serbia today. Serbia is the only country in the world where you can choose any vaccine you want. Don't pay a single dollar. Well, we're not the richest country in the world. We are by success when it comes to the vaccination of the second in Europe and the sixth in the world. So is it possible that we are the other country by size in any way in Europe or the sixth in the world by anything other than the results of basketball and water polo? How did we do that and not much bigger and richer countries? Because we have solid leadership and political stability, that's why. I know it's not very popular to say, but it's a fact. Get Alexander Vukic out of our policy and tell me if this is how we would fight the crown? Get Alexander Vukic out of our policy and tell me would we build these hospitals at that speed and that way? Get Alexander Vukic out of our policy and tell me if this is how we would successfully and organisedly fight against the consequences of the migrant crisis? We wouldn't. Political stability and clear leadership are a necessary assumption that in difficult times you lead the country and thank the MPs for understanding it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3263	Thank you. Since there are no more registered presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3264	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected ministry representatives, today we have important agreements and parliamentary groups of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasants' Party in the voting day to support these agreements. As far as the Agreement with Northern Macedonia is concerned, it is a very important agreement. Our government and president of our country are leading a policy of good neighbourly relations, leading a policy of reconciliation, and we as the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the strongest Bosniak party, support the government and support absolutely that policy. The policy, among other things, is seen in such moves as the donation of vaccines to countries in the region, among other things, when we talk about Northern Macedonia, which is the best evidence of that policy of good neighbourly relations. It is also very important in human relations, when we choose a house for ourselves, that if our house, we want to have the best home, has a pool, has a good facade, has a lawn, it is important that our neighbor has such a house. You don't care if there's a dump next to you, if there's a house next door that's down or if that house and your neighbor are good. Only in such circumstances does your house get the price. Among other things, this is how the Mini Schengen initiative should be observed, and I think that all countries of the region should absolutely support it, because it goes to everyone. As far as the migrant crisis is concerned, I've spoken and I'll repeat. The state of Serbia, our government, our institutions absolutely passed the exam. That cannot be said for a good part of EU countries. We're simply in consequence. We're not the cause. Why, for example, citizens and citizens of Libya, who had an extremely large GDP, are now leaving the country with their heads, regardless of and via the Lampeduza, going to Europe? So, it must also be the European leadership, the world leadership to deal with, because this is a global problem. We are in consequence, and we want, as far as we can, maximumly, to protect our country by these acts, but also to protect these people, migrants, who are victims of people who want to profit on their misfortunes. What we know best from the space of the former Yugoslavia, because many of our relatives, many of our friends, were victims and trafficking of people and were our or the accident of these people was used in the 1990s in EU countries to reach Germany through Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic. And then our people in the former Yugoslavia paid for it, as we hear today that it is done. And it really needs to get in the way, because I think it's one of the biggest crimes, to use the accident of a man who left, for one reason or another, his home and had to go with his head no matter what. As for the Agreement with Mexico, we heard that Mexico is a very important, strategically important country, especially important in international institutions where we need certain votes and support, when it comes to UN and other international institutions. A major country would not sign an agreement with another country if the country were not important. I think it also speaks of our role in international politics and any agreement on education, regarding culture and sports, we will absolutely support it, because it can only contribute to good relations. Regardless of geographical distance, we need to promote something called universal human values. As for the agreement with Frontex, and it certainly concerns our borders, we will also support it and we consider it important. What I want to point out is the presence of a police minister here, that I can make a point, and in my last address, I was saying that we have a stabilization of opportunities in the region. I want to ask the minister that through the influence he has in the ministry, we do everything we can and his and the ministry to have a percentage of representation, in this case of Bosniak people, in the police and all other institutions such as fire departments, etc. I'd also like to meet the minister at a session when the government representatives were here, and I spoke to the Prime Minister about the fire station problem in Brodarevo. It's a inhabited town 20 kilometers from Prepolje. This fire station will cover a large one area of the mosquito area. In the summer months, fires occur, accidents occur in houses, agricultural goods, households, forests. It's very important to us that fire station, and we really need to do, you from the Ministry's position, what's in your power, as soon as possible, it's made, so that it's released into function. Also, I would like to point out that we would have a lasting stabilisation of opportunities, and it is very important who will be the elders and chiefs of the district police department. It has to be people with no career stains, professionals who have diplomatic knowledge. It can happen sometimes that, despite all the checks, they don't come and then especially in these environments like, we have members of one, the other, the third people, they can cause inconceivable consequences, which again come to us politicians, diverse extremists or extreme forces, and from one, and the other, and the third side, they invoice it to us. So that we don't deal with the consequences, that's why I'm saying this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3265	I thank the People's MP Samir Tandira. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3266	Dear fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected presidency, the agreement we sign with Frontex is problematic. He's troubled by one of the things we have in this Agreement, i.e. more points, and it concerns the immunity of European police officers who will be protected when they operate here in Frontex teams, against criminal, civil and administrative responsibilities from our courts. Also, these officials of European police will not be held accountable for what they do in their actions, such as teams and we, besides NATO soldiers and officers who have received such immunity when they appear in our territory, besides that the American army that appears everywhere as an occupation does not allow their soldiers and officials to be subject to criminal and any other legislation of the dominant state, we are now also getting European police officers who have that kind of immunity. It's all narrowing down the sovereignty of our people and our country, and it's putting us in a situation where we're less and less sovereign, and we're more and more like the state and under the strongest, not just a soft occupation, under which we've been here since 2000. It also becomes strange that in addition to all this and all the intentions of our government and the ruling party to have strong and good relations with the Russian Federation, we do not give that kind of privilege to the Russian humanitarian centre in Nis. But in addition to all this talk about us losing elements of our country's sovereignty from day to day, I want to talk about something else. The Croatian officers will appear here as Frontex's officers. Croatian officers are someone who has shown how they treat migrants at their borders and when European parliamentarians wanted to come to make an insight and inspection, as they treated migrants, they were prevented. Croatian border police, in the good tradition of Croatian officers, have abused and bullied people. Are we now going to allow Croatian officers on our borders to do the same? Serbia and the Serbian people are a people of refugees and refugees, and we have shown in an extremely human and human way how we treat people who have passed through our country, and we notice that many of them are not refugees, because refugees are what we call a non-monetary, as one people who is experienced in what is a non-vulnerant and what refugees are. We know that young men, capable of military training and action, cannot be refugees, but those are the people who escaped instead of solving their life problems and fighting for their homeland, and the question of what task goes to other countries? However, it is us. Our security services should be of interest, but as a state, we are not in a position to treat them the way Croatian officers behave at Croatian borders. And what kind of trail Croatian officers have left in history can you see in the cathedrals in Magdeburg, where the German victims of the 30-year war have said – save us from God, plague, famine and Croats. So it's not just about this horror that we saw the other day in the movie "The Dar of Jasenovac", when the black Ustasha uniform was shown and when we thought that some villains were going wild in crazy ideology. No, that kind of cruelty whenever they thought they should defend Europe and that they were the defenders of Europe, Croatian officers showed through history wherever they had the opportunity to show themselves in the powerless. This was done in my Šumadia in 1944, when they came with a five-pointer even though they were in the domobran stations by 1943, and then thanks to Broz and his politics they managed to come to the forest and show the same cruelty over those parts of Serbia that were not in favour of the communist movement. These Croatian officers also showed their humanity, their behavior in the Storm. I do not think that this agreement should be signed and should not be allowed on behalf of the European police, supported by Brussels-based Croatian officers on our borders, harassing refugees and migrants and thus destroying what our country has done and showing that we are a people worthy of humanism and worthy of moral values and honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3267	The word has an interior minister, Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3268	Thank you very much. First, let me get one thing straight. No member of Frontex has diplomatic immunity. It has functional immunity, and the difference is huge. What does that mean? That means while he's doing his job. If that function is, say, on a two to four border, for any reason, it's protected. In four zeros one is not protected from anything. At 12.59, at 13.59 he's not protected from anything. So there's no diplomatic immunity, so let's be clear. When you mentioned Croatian officers, the first state of Serbia is human, responsible, we don't beat anyone up, we don't beat up, we don't harass, we don't live, we don't violate human rights, we don't violate the moral and ethical code where Serbs exist. That's not us. In order for the Frontex team to be Croatian officers, Danish officers, whoever, we have to agree. So no one can send us a delegation and tell you what's wrong with you. No, the state of Serbia says this one can, this one can't. So, we don't lose any prominence, we decide who our guest is, by which our guest rules and how our guest will behave and work. So it's not diplomatic immunity, it's functional immunity. The difference is really huge and no one can come to the territory of the Serbian state without us saying it can come and must respect our rules. We're not the people who are going to beat anyone's child. We're not and we're not going to let anyone and we wouldn't let anyone, and I don't think anyone would come into our country to do that, to live on some human being in our territory. The Happy Constitution, I will remind you -- a slave who comes to Serbia's territory becomes free. Free. We are a people who do not recognize slavery. We're a people who never let anyone in our space feel bad. At times when others, great, civilized, killed Jews, for us Jews were free, equal, the second they came to our country's territory. Serbia is one of the few examples, including in World War II where there was no organised anti-Semitism. There were scum like Nedic, but there was never any anti-Semitism in the Serbian people, and they respect both our prices and our day. Thank our ancestors for putting us on the better side of history. So, just to repeat once again, no member of Frontex has diplomatic immunity, has functional immunity and no one can come into the territory, sovereign territory of the sovereign republic, the free Republic of Serbia, so we don't say that we can do it by our own rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3269	Thank you. National MP Vladan Glisic is asking for the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3270	Dear Minister, in line with what you said and agreeing to what you said, I would just remind you that exactly the distinguished colleague Zukorlic was talking about that when we met with them that we would have one situation to feel a little too domestic on our ground. So I'd like you and your ministry to explain to them a little bit that this is a sovereign country and that they're just guests. Another thing that comes to mind from your exposure, and I hope it will, does that mean, since we will decide who will come from these European teams, officers and others, that we will be able to thank Croatia and that we demand that their people do not come, because of the experiences that migrants had at their border?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3271	Let's move on. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as migrants are concerned, I remember all sorts of patriotisms, by all accounts, that's what I'm going to say below. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the people who emigrated to the 20th century several times. The part was emigrated before World War II, and it was mostly economic migration that greatly helped the Serbian people in the conflicts during World War I and during World War II. It is known that Nikola Tesla, as a Serb, condemned all crimes, massacres, committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia. He told the Croats that if their hatred turned into electricity, we could light up the whole world. It is known that our migration, like Pupin, was extremely productive and that it was always to help the state of Serbia, so it was first created by the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, when the winners joined together and defeated. I think it was a mistake for Serbia, as a winner, to team up with the winners, and at the time, Woodrow Wilson asked that national states be founded, that every nation in the Balkans has its own non-ethnic, pure state, but he was a supporter of it. King Alexander, or Alexander Krajordjevic, introduced the people, as he called it, that they were Yugoslavs, that they were one people, that they were three tribes, etc. I think it was a mistake that he almost died on the Adriatic coast. Today, Montenegrins or better say the Milogorians, claim that we occupied them, chasing the occupier who occupied it in 1916, as if we had reoccupied, but they call it an occupation. That's when they forget to say that if the Podgorje Assembly doesn't work, then we'll go back to our previous situation. The previous situation in Montenegro is such that the coast before 1918, Montenegro, was from Ulcinj to Sutomor, that thanks to the occupation Serb army, Dalmatia, or Austro-Hungarian exiled from the territory of Dalmatia, and that it was expelled from Boka Kotorska, i.e. all the way to Sutomor, and that they became indefinitely. The winners in the conflict in which they claim Serbia was an occupation. After the war, we were losers again. There were many migrations in 1941 and 1945, but it was particularly expressed after 1944 and 1945. We had economic migration. Tito shared passports to get rid of extra labor and that was his smartest move. The only excess values, in my opinion, in the former Yugoslavia were brought by the gas-bitters who worked in Western Europe, because in Western Europe most of the work is done, and whoever goes to Canada and Australia is mostly living there. We benefited most from emigration, Serbian emigration, the economics that Tito, allowing passports and free exits from the country, let work, to get rid of extra labour, to work in Western Europe. That's how we gained income, and if it didn't cost us anything, except for the passports that the citizens paid to get. It was his economic move that I certainly welcome. The other kind of migration I was talking about from the wars, especially in the 1990s, wants to stick to the Serbian people and the Serbian state, to stick to the label of ethnic cleansing, that we are genocide, that they have done ethnic cleansing. Wait, how in BiH did the number of Muslims, or later Bosniaks, increase by several percent on their 1991 censuses in 2011, it seems to me, when was the census again? Turns out, instead of 44%, it's reportedly 50.1%, and the number of Serbs has fallen. How, then, did the Serbs perform ethnic cleansing in BiH if only 460,000 Serbs were missing in the Federation, no longer living where they lived before the 1991 war? Let's say that what Sarajevo, some of Belgrade's intellectuals are saying, is extorting as surrounded, tortured, multiethnic, how in Sarajevo did 150 thousand Serbs disappear? There are fewer Serbs there today than Arabs and Chinese. How is it that in this municipality of the Centre, multiethnic Sarajevo emigrated from there, migrated, 15,600 Serbs and tens of thousands of Yugoslavs who are no longer on the list? How does that happen in a multiethnic environment? How did Serbs perform ethnic cleansing, and over a million Serbs no longer live in homes in territories where they lived before the war in 1991, 1992 and 1993, depending on when, where the conflict began? How in the Federation 400 and some thousands, in Croatia with 500 and some thousands we burned to 180 thousand? So it wasn't just "Storm", we had between "Storms" the beginning of the conflict of several ethnically cleansed Serbs in Croatia but what was expelled during the "Storms", but during "Storms" it happened in a few days? How come from Kosovo and Metohija to banish the number of Serbs? Get it together and you'll get a million. It is cruel and it is not moral to judge the Serbian people and the Serbian state as someone who has done ethnic cleansing, as someone who has committed genocide. I'm ashamed of what the Serbs were doing in Srebrenica. But I ask you, where are the Serbs who lived in Srebrenica, in the city? There was only one woman left when the Serb army entered Srebrenica. Only one woman of Serbian nationality stayed in Srebrenica. Everything that's been going on for three years around Srebrenica happened in Srebrenica during the retreat, the clashes, and some of them were shot. To confess and to be a little ashamed of that crime. It's not genocide. I wonder what happened to the Serbs in the town of Srebrenica? It's genocide because they've been expelled or killed by women, children, old people, etc. Absolutely only one woman left. It's a non-selective destruction of a group that didn't happen when the Serb army entered. We have in Belgrade, I call it the Belgrade Ustashas, the Slovenians at least seem to hate us, and then the Macedonians, and then the Croats, and then the Bosniaks, but the Bosniaks in Sarajevo, then the Montenegrini, and the most of them hate us, are some Belgrade section that defends all these Ustasha crimes, etc. I'll list some of our famous migrants. For example, during 1999 you certainly heard of Dusan Teodorovic. I call him a fugitive. It's a special kind of migrants, emigrated. It is an academic, Atlagic calls it the "headquake" because when he shows hatred for the ruling coalition, he shakes his head. His hatred, his hunger for hatred for the ruling coalition, you cannot feed it however you turn. Now, imagine him, he flees during the war on the aggressor side, a Serbian academic. Academic! At the time of Tibor Cern, Hungarian, a Serbian citizen, died in Kosharam, saying, "This country was worth dying for." Right, Mr. Martinovic? Now, look, an academic, and a peasant from Kovačica, it seems to me, look at that difference in patriotism, someone who doesn't even have a sprawl of origin is experiencing Serbia as his own country, and someone is running away today giving us a lecture on how this is an evil power, etc. And another thing, he acknowledges Kosovo, as far as I know, is that I am assisted by Mr Atlagic. Now imagine that kind of patriotism, this gin, and this one's running away and he's giving lectures. Imagine another migrant, Dragan Gilas. Well, I have to mention it once. Not just because of the 619 million. Yesterday I said that gamer from New Sad, designed a video game man, 19m euros, designed the sale outside. It didn't occur to him to emigrate, open an account in the Seashell or some of those islands, as they're called, he didn't think to go there. That money was earned by selling out, designed in his head. No, he brought in 19 million. He introduced 19 million, imagine that type of patriotism, and paid a tax that amounted to billions of dinars in the state of Serbia. Imagine now the one supported by Bosko Obradovic and the political party Dveri, which raised 619m euros. It's a special kind of migrants. He was busy in the Czech Republic in 1999. I guess he wasn't up for conflicts in Kosovo and Metohija, but when the wars ended he showed up selling seconds on RTS. Imagine that kind of migrants and that kind of financial speculator, who teaches us today and his godfather about how we will betray Kosovo and he defends it in the Czech Republic. Now, a very interesting phenomenon of the range of this artillery these KLAs had. We have a third type of migrant named Bosko Obradovic. He was 23 in 1999. Tibor Cerna died when he was 19, and this one must have had more. It's too many years. Anyway, he has migrated from Chuck to Belgrade. He probably thought that he was not sure enough in the Chapanese library, so he decided to establish the “Beast ” magazine just then. Now, it was right then that he had to solve it, with his body in Belgrade, out of range, because Cacak was too close to Kosovo, and Belgrade was probably far enough. Since it's a denser populated capital, as it says, you won't shoot, but Cacak may also be shot at by the military industry, which they did. Just in case, he decided to start a magazine called Dvori. It is a special type of migrants, who, behold, was spiritually in Kosovo, but the body was in Belgrade just in case to establish a magazine "The Beast". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not our fault for the migrants. I recommend that, however we can, we find a way for them to go to Europe. We didn't destroy Libya, or Iraq, or Syria, or Afghanistan. We know best what these military interventions look like. There, Teodorovic, there's Sergei Trifunovic, and he was a minor for fighting in Kosovo, but he was old enough to whine, beg and flee to the United States, on the aggressor side to cross, because at that time the US and NATO pact were an aggressor to our country. So this guy got away too, and now he's giving us a lecture on how we're gonna do something, like that, bad for this country. We did not destroy those countries, it destroyed the NATO Pact, where most of the EU countries are in the NATO Pact. Having destroyed their countries is legal and legitimate, in my view, that refugees from these war areas, whether refugees are migrants, those who flee from that country are refugees, and in our country are migrants, I think legally and legitimately need to go to Europe, the United States, etc. But it's interesting that all of a sudden, Europe and the United States are getting a little chilly about what they're guilty of. I am in favour of that if there is a way to help them reach the EU, the United States, etc., because for their deaths, the loss of their countries, not only of war, wherever the war is hurt and the economy, and probably that among them there are economic refugees who think the EU is a promised country of dembelies, that they were bombed precisely because they need good labour in Berlin, London, Paris, etc., and their goals are not Serbia, their goal is Paris, London, Brussels, etc. I would in any way help them to reach such valuable, hardworking, honest labour, not to steal in our gardens, etc. Among every nation there are those who break the laws, and that is how we should observe them, and there we should be partially tolerated. Now imagine that anti-migrant attitude – all of them should be expelled at once. Imagine that someone solves this in Europe, the United States or Australia according to our people who had economic migration and war migration, and surely 40% of Serbs live outside Serbia. Imagine now someone decides to get rid of our immigrants and say – we will return them all, banish them to Serbia, etc. So we need to be extremely careful, organized, valuable, patient, etc. We need to raise our economy, make sure we treat migrants as lightly as possible. Do you know why? Look, migrants prefer to use the route through Serbia. Now, imagine a people who are accused of being anti-Islamic in the mood and migrants who are most likely to use the state and easily pass through the people who allegedly carried out ethnic cleansing over the people of Islamic religion. So, in a certain way, they give legitimacy to what we claim, that Serbia has never committed any genocide and no ethnic cleansing and Serbia will, sooner or later, prove it in various ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3273	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3274	In 2015, as you know, the UN Security Council, on a proposal from the UK, was supposed to adopt a resolution under which the state of Serbia and the Serbian people were responsible for genocide. The first and only resolution in the history of civilization, after two world wars, after the Holocaust, after the death camp, after 50 million deaths in World War II, after millions of killed children, after causing two world wars by Germany, in 2015, the Serb people, who have less on the planet Earth than they have killed children in world wars, was to be declared genocide people, the only nation in the world. If President Alexander Vukic and President Vladimir Putin hadn't prevented it, you and I, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, would have read in our children's textbooks that their grandfathers were members of the genocide people and that they should be ashamed of something. The people of Jasenovec were supposed to be a genocidal people. If President Vukic and President Putin had done nothing else in their life to prevent this terrible lie, they should have been written in gold letters in the history of our peoples, that's all they did. Today we are witnessing an awakened Serbian state. Nothing costs, nothing costs but courage for Republika Srpska and Serbia to mark common dates of their past. Nothing costs more than enormous political and personal courage, when President Vukic came out of front of a collapsed General Staff building and said - NATO aggression. Nothing costs but personal and political courage, but it doesn't cost our people, when President Aleksandar Vukic went to Srebrenica, bowed down to the victims, but he said he wasn't a genocide and never accused his people, ever. In the history of such things are recorded, recorded. Here, I am also taking the opportunity before you, MPs, to launch an initiative. You know, we accept the world's European rules, the textbooks are bought on the market, the cheapest bidder, everything as well as in all the other countries in the world, and that's just fine. But let it be when it comes to biology, chemistry, mathematics. The history textbook must be written by the state of Serbia and only the state of Serbia can and can or should at least have a clear and specific textbook that will teach our children. There will be at least a page on Jasenovac in that textbook. There will be three sentences in which foreign publishers explain to us what Jasenovac was, in which foreign publishers explain to us what Kosovo is, what Srebrenica is. Please, if you ever find room for this, discuss this topic, make a proposal, bring the law, do what you can to make the state of Serbia write its own history, don't let others write our history. If others write history to us, there will be some lowlife other Serbian who will say that "The gift from Jasenovac" is a war gurgling. War cooze is the slaughter of Serbian children. It's not those who slaughtered them, it's those who dared to remember it. Don't let that happen. Do this effort, let's write our textbook, just our basic Serbian truth, don't let others write it to us. Don't let us buy history on the market. Don't let history textbooks get from foreign publishers, specifically both Croatian and German, don't. Let's write it down. Let's write it because we won't be here if we don't remember. This generation was full Sunday morning after "The Dara of Jasenovac"; their eyes were full of horrors; they didn't even know it. We kept our children from that horror so that we wouldn't hurt their young souls with this crime, and we can see how much we were wrong. We should tell them that simple, simple and terrifying truth. Aleksandar Vukic is the first Serbian president to have the courage to say -- I want to make a film about Jasenovac. Let's tell that story. And you and I thought it was a story we tell about strangers, to get to know the great world that we've suffered. No, ladies and gentlemen, this was a story for the Serbian people because we forgot what happened in Jasenovac. This was a story for the Serbian people, that we first understood what they had done to us and that this absolute hatred never stopped. Can you imagine today in Croatia some of the Jasenovac heads have streets, have monuments, have a place in history? Can you imagine a people who are not ashamed of Mile Budaka, Alojzi Stepinca, and it is not true that they brought to power in Croatia Pavelic, as Krleža wrote, three Ustasha trucks, but brought him by an entire people, but brought him by an entire people, as Adolf Hitler brought him to power, but brought him by an entire people who did not raise or rise, but were raised up by miracles, in a village called Srb, behold, Serbs. It is not true that Ante Pavelic did not have plebiscite support in the Croatian people, and it is true that the Croatian state has never, ever cleared the Croatian people with the constitution, and had to do it for itself, not for the sake of the Serbs, for its sake. A people who can keep quiet about Jadovno, who can keep quiet about Jasenovac, must think well of themselves and what awaits him in the future. I had this civilizational accident to go through a Ustasha deck waiting for me in front of a cave in Jadovna, explaining that either the caves didn't exist or they weren't full enough. Such people exist, ladies and gentlemen, such people exist. That's why every rock we put into our common house of truth is precious and valuable. The Serbian people never hesitated to confess to a crime, to give up the individual who committed the crime, but the Serbian people never committed an organised and systematic crime. We didn't have death camps. The Serbian people have never systematically and plannedly wronged anyone else, never, in Srebrenica or anywhere else in their history. And I don't want to even the Brutus and the Potocaras. I don't want to count it. Every child, every man, every woman deserves respect and deserves to live, not kill herself. But I can't understand that the white tissues of mothers in Srebrenica deserve tears and respect, and that the black scarves of Serbian mothers don't deserve a tear, not a word, not a word, not a thank you. And I can't understand, I can't understand that none of the prominent representatives of the international community came to the Serbian grave and did not pardon the Serbian mother's black scarf, I can't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3275	Since nobody's in the system right now, we're continuing on the list of registered speakers. The word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3276	In interstate relations, the conclusion of bilateral agreements is considered to be a significant step towards creating as favourable conditions as possible for further improving political relations and versatile co-operation in other areas of mutual interest and importance. Encouraged by the desire to establish and strengthen co-operation in the fields of education, culture and sports, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States signed an Agreement on Educational, Cultural and Sports Co-operation. The agreement came out of the belief that such co-operation is a significant instrument of mutual understanding between the two countries, as well as an important mechanism that contributes to strengthening co-operation in the fields of education, culture and sports. The initiative to sign the agreement was launched by the Mexican side, with a desire to strengthen and upgrade co-operation in those areas. By entry into force of the Agreement on Educational, Cultural and Sports Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of Mexico will cease to apply the Treaty on Cultural Exchange between the FNRJ and the United States of Mexico signed back in 1960. I believe that this period of longer than half a century is a great waste of time on diplomatic, educational, cultural, sports and any other plan. I also think that we should look at all agreements with other countries in the world, especially friendly like Mexico, if they are not restored, to work urgently to restore them. It would be good if the initiative came from us, not to wait for the initiative from others. I think that Serbia needs every kind of help and support and this kind of co-operation deepens diplomatic relations. Therefore, this type of co-operation should be extended to as many countries in the world as possible. The signing of this agreement creates a new legal framework for the realisation of bilateral co-operation in a modern way, with respect for mutual interests, real potentials and current trends in education, culture and sports. The signing of the agreement enables the co-operation of the two countries' competent institutions at all levels of education, through exchange of experts and future joint projects, as well as the recognition of higher education diplomas and secondary public documents in accordance with national legislation of each country. After signing the agreement, the two countries will encourage language study, literature and other country culture. This creates the possibility of establishing one country's cultural centres in the other in the capitals. The idea is good, but I think it should open up the possibility for other cities in Serbia and Mexico to establish co-operation on a cultural and sports plan, to allow, for example, fraternising cities. Brethrenship is the approximation of two communities that thus want to take action aimed at developing interrelationships of increasingly direct friendships. The values of fraternization are friendship, cooperation, and mutual knowledge of the people. We from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will always advocate connecting, co-operation and good diplomatic relations not only with countries in the region, but with the whole world, because it can only bring good and prosperity in all segments. As regards the Status Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on actions conducted by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency in the Republic of Serbia. It is about an agreement signed in Belgrade on 18 November 2019. The European Border and Coast Guard Agency or Frontex established in 2004 to help EU and associated Schengen countries protect external borders, areas, free movement within the EU. This European agency expanded in 2016 and became the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, extending its role with migration border management controls and taking on greater responsibility for cross-border crime. Frontex is considered one of the EU's most important bodies in the area of freedom, security and justice. Search and rescue operations have also officially become part of Frontekst's jurisdiction, and every time such situations occur in the context of sea border surveillance. The entry into force of the Agreement will allow Frontex to help Serbia manage borders, carry out joint operations and deploy teams in countries bordering the EU if those countries agree. The activities of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency are aimed at addressing the problem of illegal migration, particularly rapid changes in migration flows and cross-border crime, and may include the provision of increased technical and operational assistance at the border. It is an operational instrument whose members will be under the control of the host country, and will work to approve or refuse entry at the EU's external borders, but also to intercept individuals who have crossed the border illegally. When the agreement is finalized, the border guard set at Serbian borders will be entitled to conduct checks at border crossings along with Serbian border guards. They will also patrol along the border to monitor it, and technical equipment will be used. This Agreement will bring significant additional value in terms of strengthening border management and combating irregular migration and smuggling of migrants through the region, and thus contribute to our common security. Frontex liaison officers have been working in Serbia since last year, where it is also the headquarters of the regional co-ordination organisation. The agreement we are talking about today should regulate the position of their officials and working conditions in Serbia. In the day to vote, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support all proposed agreements on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3277	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Samir Ćosovic. The word has a folk MP, Zagorka Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3278	Honored Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. We are facing today a set of very important agreements, and a law on which I would pay particular attention is the Law confirming the agreement between the governments of Serbia and Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking. Among other things, this agreement obliges the governments of our two countries to co-operate on preventing human trafficking, protecting against this problem and to co-operate to recognise this phenomenon. The deal will be conducted by several competent ministries from both Serbia and Macedonia and will seek to recognise new methods that those involved in this illegal activity are carrying out and working on prevention mechanisms through co-ordinated co-operation. In Serbia, there are several specialised working groups implementing a strategy to combat human trafficking. That includes the civil sector. Our country in recent years has shown a really serious willingness to fight human trafficking and this is recognized by domestic and international circles dealing with this problem. However, data from organisations dealing with this issue say that in 2020 alone, more than 50 victims of human trafficking were identified, which is more than 2019. We in Unity Serbia believe that the task, above all, is to bring more attention to this problem. Human trafficking or slavery of the 21st century is not always transparent, very often the victim's exploitation comes with the victim's consent. Very often people are not aware that they are victims of human trafficking, because the victim’s insurance comes slowly and perfiduously, because the victim introduces the organized chain in an unorthodox manner and not of whom the victim knows. No one is 100 percent protected from human trafficking. When asked who can become a victim of human trafficking, there is no specific answer, because it is neither gender nor racial or national. Of course, if we single out the most vulnerable category, it's certainly children, especially those who live in poverty or children who don't have a family at all. The likelihood that the child we see every day in our neighborhood begging on the street will become a victim of human trafficking is greater than any of our children, of my child or of any child living in a normal family. That's one fact we can't close our eyes to. I would also briefly refer to the report on human trafficking for 2020, which really recognises the efforts of the Serbian government to improve the general state of play in this domain. The recommendations in this report primarily refer to the active identification of victims, the processing of human traffickers and the various other mechanisms that our country will consider and adopt. We and Northern Macedonia have already passed a law implementing the Agreement in the fight against migrant smuggling. Migrants are also one of the more vulnerable groups when it comes to human trafficking, and that has already been said here. The law on this agreement will extend the co-operation of our two friendly states and we expect it to be natural for similar agreements to be signed with more states. A unique Serbia will support the law in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3279	I thank you, MPs Zagorki Aleksic. The word has the People's Messenger Tom Phil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3280	Madam Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates, I'd like to use your attention for two minutes first. I was born in Bitola, it's Macedonia, and I've been there 50 years on vacation, maybe 60. I've met a lot of people, I've defended a lot in Skopje, there's not a single man who didn't answer my phone to thank us for 8,000 vaccines, they didn't know about the other eight. You know what we should all be proud of, at least me, they call that vaccine the Wolf's vaccine. I wanted so much of your attention, because believe me, it's very important. There are Bulgarians who spoke there – what the Serbs give you, they give you nothing, we will give you. They didn't get anything from the Bulgarians. I tell you what the people say, intellectuals and others. So, great gratitude to the people of Serbia, so the government and the president for getting it. It's something we have to be proud of. I'm also saying it's called the vaccine, the Wolf's vaccine. As far as the case is concerned, what I wanted to talk about, you must know that I usually have objections to the law. I've had objections to one and the other which we're going to vote for on Thursday, and I have no objections to this agreement, I really don't. This agreement that talks about boundaries and all that, it's done the way it's supposed to be done, but understand, Mr. Vulin, the fear of us being old and colleagues from here. We're past DOS. I passed Jeffrey Nyss who walked through Belgrade as a Gestapo. He tried to break into my office, I threw him out, of course. He sent a cop and said, "Get out." Why are we afraid of all this? It is limited sovereignty, it is that we have that if he commits a criminal act within the framework of the job he will not be prosecuted, nor will he pay compensation for the damage, but we need to know something else – that it is our pride, our man. Are we going to let them do something like that or are we going to know, unlike DOS, that we are hosts in our own house and that he is not the main, more important than us? I'll talk about Macedonia again. One from NATO killed in traffic, a dead drunk, a Macedonian government minister and his wife. He went home, packed his suitcase and left. There is a difference in this Agreement, in what it does in the context of business and what it will do out of it. It's beyond that, if a drunk beats and kills or beats, he'll answer only in the line of work. That's why it's making us sick, because you read that he's forbidden to use torture, torture, beat, whatever the Croats do, the Croatian police, that we can't... And then, when you read it all, you read that it will not be prosecuted, that it will not pay the damage but Serbia and then you wonder if it is a restriction of sovereignty. In one way, it is. But if we watch out and don't let them act like elephants in a glass shop, because he's NATO or I don't know where he came from. Let me remind you. In Rambuje, we signed an agreement with the Contact Group and then came a Hill and brought at two o'clock in the morning to our delegation that we should allow NATO's pact wildly across Serbia, to use our resources, to arrest our people, means Milosevic first, etc. It's that fear, Mr. Vulin, that we have, and the mufti and this one here and all of us. A year of production kills us, Mr. Vulin. That's the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3281	The word has an interior minister, Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3282	Thank you very much. When it comes to years of production, we're here somewhere. We're not even a garage, let me tell you right now. We've been trampled by a lot of things, and besides, we've been trampled by this scum that set this assembly on fire, and that, at least I'll never forget it. I may be coming out of the bounds of political correctness, but when someone burns down the National Assembly, what if it's not scum or arson? What can I tell you? I can't find another word. Your concern in the legal sense doesn't have many reasons. Here, I'll give you an example. Therefore, team members can only use weapons when absolutely necessary, in self-defense to refuse a direct attack that threatens their or the life of another person in accordance with the national legislation of the Republic of Serbia. So the rules are more than clear. When it comes to damage, it is the Agency that pays for the damage not Serbia. If Officer Frontex is doing any damage for any reason, I'm not going in now why and how, they're paying for the damage, not us. We're completely irresponsible here. There was this Amadeo Watkins, there was an Englishman who used to tell us, our officers how to look, how to act, how to deal with the devastating consequences of that policy. NATO pact colonels lined up Serbian chiefs of staff, NATO officers had the possibility, even bilaterally, not even as NATO but as individual countries had a pass to enter the General Staff whenever they wanted to without informing anyone or asking for permission. Our officer can't do that. A Serbian officer cannot enter the General Staff without permission, NATO officers entered as they wished. The fact is that by the time Alexander Vukic arrived, foreigners ruled this country. They did what they wanted and how they wanted. I understand your fear, but, you know, there is no paper and agreement that will make you a proud and free man. Whatever you write, it's paper. If you're a coward, if you're a man who listens to strangers, nothing helps you. We had a Chief of Staff who pulled CDs out of his pants and taught them to foreign officials. What agreement was that? Where did it say it was going to happen? You can't be human if you're not human. You can't be a Serb if you're not a Serb. President Aleksandar Vukic has set Serbia straight, a Serbia that can't say I won't. We haven't told anyone since 2000 to 2012. It could have been anything. Whatever they tell us, they can do anything. He can do anything. Everything was fine. NATO, NATO... If we had been asked a little louder about the NATO Pact, we would have entered the NATO Pact, so we wouldn't have entered the NATO Pact. Should I remind you that the official formulation was Euro-Atlantic integration? So, not European, Euro-Atlantic. Of course, when we think of strangers coming, we remember those times. We're the only country since the Second World War she's extradited from her president to the Chief of Staff, she's extradited everything. Aleksandar Vukic has been the only Serbian statesman since 2000, who has not handed over to a foreign state or to The Hague tribunal any single officer. Here in this House were Serbian Radical Break MPs who asked to be extradited to The Hague. None, never. As we have been listening for nine years to lies that he has confessed to Kosovo, for nine years we have been listening to him populate Serbia with migrants, so we have listened to him work for foreigners and introduce us into the NATO Pact. I'm sorry, this House has passed a resolution called military neutrality, the only one. We are obliged to come tomorrow by some other majority would have to change our decision, wouldn't necessarily do that, there's no paper that will make your country and your people free if you're not free, and we're free people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3283	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3284	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, is on the agenda of today's session, among other things, the proposal for a law confirming the Status Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on actions conducted by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency in the Republic of Serbia. This Agreement will establish a legal framework for comprehensive co-operation between the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia and this Agency and regulate all aspects of coordination for the implementation of joint actions, in order to address in the best possible way problems such as illegal migration or through border crime, which are today major security challenges. The agency will also provide support to the Republic of Serbia, with an even more effective control of our borders with any non-EU country, which is also important to point out. But this Agreement has a much wider meaning. It shows that Serbia is closer today than ever the EU, although some former regime politicians such as Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic are trying to convince us otherwise. It is funny when from the authorities from 2000 to 2012, you hear criticism about Serbia's European integration, as they have failed European values and sold fog to citizens about European integration without any fundamental success. It is precisely because of this false European policy that they have brought themselves down to the level of statistical error and no lies that have been placed over their media that can not change that for years. I would remind you that twelve countries were admitted to the EU during the period between Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, i.e. from 2000 to 2012, and by 2012, respectively, only one was adopted since the arrival of the SNS until today, which shows that the EU enlargement policy in the period from 2012 was much more favourable than it is now. I will remind you that just in their time, the process of European integration was hitched to 11 months, but how many of them are fake fighters for European values best shows the fact that they made their own Union for Serbia in time, with Dveri leader Bosko Obradovic, who openly opposes Serbia's entry into the EU, and who openly propagates fascism as political ideology. In contrast to this time, Serbia today, thanks to responsible policy by Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party, has arranged closer than ever the EU, because we have just failed to turn the policy of European integration of the former regime into a stable reform process that will result in Serbia's EU membership. Progress is seen in the number of explanatory and bilateral screenings by the board and subcommittees and Stabilisation and Association Agreements, intergovernmental conferences, and in particular since 18 negotiating chapters have been opened, while two are provisionally closed. Progress is also being seen in providing 1.3 billion euros in grants, and will be provided much more. That is why Serbia is today being treated as a serious partner, as shown by the EU enlargement strategy for the Western Balkans of 2018, which recognised Serbia as a regional leader on its way to the EU, but should also point out that the EU enlargement process is too conditioned by the political will of the Member States, and far less by meeting technical criteria. It depends on two sides, but in this case, the other side is not unique, but is made up of 27 Member States, and as you all know, there are countries that are not in favour of EU enlargement, which are certainly affected by the 2015 migrant crisis and Bregzit. Nevertheless, Serbia remains committed to the EU process and full membership remains the government's strategic priority, which should be commended and supported maximum. It is precisely the government that continues to work on implementing comprehensive reforms, especially in the area of the rule of law and has already taken several important steps in this area by forming a working group on the security and protection of journalists and the task force to monitor the implementation of the media strategy. Also, although we were not under obligation, we accepted a new methodology for the EU accession process, which was originally aimed at Northern Macedonia and Albania and showed readiness to speed up the dynamics of the accession process. It is this new methodology that changes the process of European integration and introduces a new approach, so that focus is no longer on individual chapters, but on clusters that have a total of six. The negotiating chapters are now a secondary instrument, given that the key sectoral policies presented through six clusters are now: the rule of law, the internal market, competitiveness and inclusive growth, the green agenda and sustainable integration, resources and agriculture and cohesion policy and external relations, and that is precisely what Serbia is responsible for on its European path. As far as clusters are concerned, Serbia has already opened a number of negotiating chapters in most clusters, which is why we expect the EU to explain to us as soon as possible how Serbia's success on the European path will be evaluated, but, to be clear, Serbia's goal is not mere membership and meeting technical criteria, our goal is to build a modern and developed country that will be a successful member of the EU and which, by its knowledge and experience, will contribute to the further development of the EU and European ideas. It is the process of vaccination in Serbia that shows that even today, when we are not in the EU, Member States can see and learn from us how to build a system that works in times of the world's greatest crisis, because no EU member state is better than Serbia, which is important for our citizens to know. Certainly, it should be pointed out that Serbia, in addition to the strategic commitment to EU membership, will continue to strengthen partnership relations with the United States, China, Russia and other partners in the world, as it is also in the interest of our country and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3285	I thank the People's MP. The word has a national emissary Jelena Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3286	Thank you. Dear Prime Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today's exhibition will be directly related to the Agreement on Cultural, Educational and Sports Cooperation with the United States, but given the width of the topic of cultural exchange and how important it is for every country on the planet, and especially for countries that are small or medium in size, I would like to look back on other cultural opportunities, important for achieving both this and all other already signed and future agreements and co-operation. We are already familiar with the fact that our diplomatic relations with the United States have been going on since 1946 and that Mexican partners have not left us as real friends in all our historic times and troubles. What we can certainly do is foreign trade, since the Mexican economy is 15, the largest in the world and their investment in Europe was only about $10 billion in 2016. Foreign trade is certainly a topic on which we can work and deepen it when it comes to co-operation with Mexican states. The agreement on educational, cultural and sports co-operation, which Mr Dacic signed as foreign minister last year, so that in this year, when we mark 75 years of diplomatic relations with the United States and confirmed in this higher home, is extremely important for the continuation of our further relations with Mexico, given that cultural diplomacy is the soft force of every country in the world, which can extremely contribute to interstate relations, but especially the image of every country. Due to the globalisation process, which we all testify to, all the countries of the world, and in particular Europe, have met with a certain loss of personality and must choose between maintaining cultural identity and current political interests. So it is very important and urgent for Serbia to determine the direction of cultural policy and to work more intensively to regulate internal cultural policies in order to preserve cultural identity and then to make better cultural exchanges with other countries of the world. We must make efforts and resources to preserve cultural heritage, tradition, contemporary creation, high art, as well as authentic artistic figures to make Europe and the rest of the world feel the need to integrate Serbian achievements in the field of culture and art. When we are going to invest in culture if not now, when we have economically strengthened our country and when our economy can accompany the development of culture, when we can potentially raise 15 euros per capita for culture at least to the level of countries in the region, such as Croatia or Hungary with 39, 43, Northern Macedonia 28 euros. When, if not now, when we have injected vaccines with hope that the brighter days will come and that the hard days are behind us and if not now, when it is a politically important moment to show that we will not allow ourselves to cough for other countries of Europe and the world in any segment. This Agreement with Mexico covers a wide range of opportunities for co-operation and exchange. One of the topics is the establishment of Serbia's cultural centres in Mexico and vice versa, which raises the issue of the importance of the existence and functioning of our cultural centres and cultural missions abroad. I would like to commend the activities of importing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture on the expansion of the Serbian cultural centres network, but I must remind us all together that our cultural centre in Beijing has not been performing its work for almost two years. The end of the work took place long before the crown of the crisis. That is why, as a folk MP and an artist, I appeal to all competent institutions that procedural matters be resolved as quickly as possible, so that our already excellent Serbian-Chinese relations can be deepened and that space for the exploration of both cultures can increase enormously. We also believe that it is of paramount importance that the programmes in these Serbian cultural centres should be synchronised with the culture development strategy that is necessary and finally brought forward after a long-term alignment so that the future development of culture can be worked thoroughly. The strategy also needs to be more active in working on the National Cultural Council, which we are just going to discuss here through amendments and additions to the Law on Culture. As a national MP, I believe it is certainly more practical that the 19 members so far are reduced to the new proposed seven, but yet as a MP and an artist, I believe that the National Council for Culture should still be in contact with the National Assembly and that members of that high advisory body are elected precisely in this high house. In each institution, it is important, in every working body, state or advisory, that we have thinking, affirmative and quality individuals and that as a society, we use all our intellectual and creative capacities of the community, regardless of any commitment or belonging, and not just in terms of the image of a democratic society, but in terms of the existence of a healthy critical thought that is specifically necessary in the field of culture, so that we can maintain the cultural scene and our cultural identity in general and further develop and improve. I look forward to opening our cultural centres in Moscow, London, Berlin and I hope other major cities of the world, but in order for these centres to be opened, it is necessary to update our international agreements, because many of them with different countries of the world were signed in the '50s, '60s, even in the '70s, then with Yugoslavia. They're all in effect and functional, but since it's decades, they should be updated in order to accompany the technological achievements that we've all witnessed in the past few decades. My personal initiative would be to introduce artists and cultural experts through parliamentary delegations or parliamentary groups of friendships through our parliamentary activities with foreign countries who, together with parliamentary delegations, could present our country's culture on each visit abroad. This may be the problem of the protocol, but, again, we know that protocols change according to the arrangements, especially if interstate co-operation and quality development are important. Cultural centers, perhaps the proposal could also be for cultural centres of foreign countries to organise their contents perhaps in other cities of our country, so that all our municipalities and all our citizens can come and get access to different cultures of the world and that guests who come can get to know the beauty of our country better. We must improve our manifestations, festivals, we cannot only boast with a few successful ones and show this as an example of our urgency and success, but such manifestations must be supported and maintained and given the space and resources to make our contents wider and to bring some of the outcasts to life and eventually make new ones, because it all contributes to a more quality cultural exchange, so that guests from abroad who come to our manifestations have real insight into our heritage, into our tradition and our culture, which is huge and unspeakable. Following the decentralisation of culture through the projects "Towns in Focus" and "Serbian Capital of Culture" and through the funding that certain cities have now received, it is especially important that the homes of culture, infrastructure in culture change, but we will discuss it at the next sessions. All together, culture, education, sport, it is necessary to raise the level of awareness in our society, especially to cultivate school sport, because sports leagues lead us to successful sports professional leagues, lead to a healthier nation and, of course, helps us to be more successful, to build a better image abroad, thus helping our athletes and individuals who have been proudly and at the highest level possible for decades in the world. As an MEP, I will support this agreement, as well as any future that concerns quality cultural exchanges and promotions of cultural projects. I would like some of these initiatives to be included in official documents, protocols, to promote together a culture that is necessary and one of the most important Corpses of every society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3287	Thank you. The word is Vesna Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3288	Thank you. The agreements we are talking about today, with Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking and the Status Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on actions implemented by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, i.e. Frontex, are somehow linked, if we consider Serbia's geographical position as a transit route, i.e. Balkan routes for irregular immigration, but also for human trafficking. Today is the agenda of the second agreement we have signed with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and which this parliament is to ratify. Both agreements concern human trafficking. I've already spoken on this subject, but I want to point out its significance this time too. Because every step towards curbing human trafficking is a big step forward, but also increased joint control with Frontex will certainly affect the prevention of human trafficking. Otherwise, human trafficking is the fastest growing global criminal branch, one of the largest and most profitable global criminal activities, along with drug trafficking, arms and money laundering. As a form of organised crime, human trafficking is not limited to the territory of only one country, covering the stages of recruiting, transporting, exploitation of victims, in its various forms. It is located in the territory of countries of origin, transit and destination. One of the biggest delusions about human trafficking is that it happens to someone else. But the data shows that there are vulnerable groups that are more at risk. Victims come from all social classes, different nationalities, gender, levels of education. Women, children and men are subjected to various forms of abuse and exploitation, such as sexual exploitation and forced prostitution, forced labour, or labour exploitation, which most often ends up taking away passports and earnings abroad, then forced begging, also belongs to that category, forced labour in the house, forced marriages. A particularly endangered category is women and girls. They make up about 80% of the total number of victims. The most vulnerable and sensitive category is children. This agreement specifies that the competent authorities are obliged to carry out all the risks, assess parental competences, take the necessary custody measures and provide the necessary assistance and support, and all in the best interests of the child. The competent authorities of the party signatories, as competent authorities of the country of origin and the country of destination, shall take measures to provide child care in a way that is in his best interest until conditions for its safe return are obtained, if possible. Human trafficking can be a local character, it takes place on the territory of one state, while smuggling, on the other hand, always implies crossing the border. In practice, these two issues are often related. Most often, people who depend exclusively on smugglers become victims of human trafficking, because they have no freedom of movement, are tied exclusively to smugglers, who often use the situation they are in. The particularly endangered category is irregular migrants, whose smuggling has taken place in previous years, since the great wave of 2015, largely across our country's territory. From all of this, it is clear how complex and sensitive this area is. It is precisely the reasons why the engagement and co-operation of several ministries and institutions, such as the co-operation of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour, martial arts and social affairs, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the Centre for the Protection of Victims of Human Trade. I am sure that this co-operation with Northern Macedonia, but also with Frontex, will have a significant impact on the prevention and prevention of human trafficking, so I will certainly support this agreement with my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3289	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3290	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers with fellow Members, as a representative of a generation of young Members of Parliaments, is always a special pleasure to discuss in this high home the points of the agenda relating to co-operation agreements, above all that reflects the will and efforts of all the authorities and institutions in our country to promote co-operation with other countries in various areas. Since colleagues from my SPS parliamentary group have spoken a little more about agreements that are on the agenda today, and given that on behalf of the SPS I am participating in the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, my discussion today will focus on an agreement with Northern Macedonia in the field of combating human trafficking. At the very beginning, I would point out what the president of the Ivica Dacic National Assembly estimated during a recent visit by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Northern Macedonia, that bilateral relations between Serbia and Macedonia are extremely good, which is witnessed by positive and intense political dialogue, as well as exchanges of visits at the highest level. Also, as MPs, we can conclude and confirm that relations between these two countries are good and that they are developing in a good direction, and that friendship between the two nations and the two countries is particularly strengthened in these difficult times, and in addition, the donation of vaccines that Serbia has given to Northern Macedonia as a sign of solidarity. In this connection, it is important that co-operation with Northern Macedonia is deepened in other areas such as the security sector, and this agreement, which is now on the agenda, was concluded at the end of 2019 and reflects the existence of mutual will by the two countries to regulate co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking. What we expect from him is not only to contribute to better co-operation, improved co-operation between the two countries, two neighbouring countries, but also to increase the security of the entire region. Human trafficking, as we all know, is the most perfided and profitable criminal activity that knows no state borders. That's why it's a global problem. What is particularly important is to stress that this is the most cruel way of violating human rights and freedom and that this is one of the most serious crimes against humanity. Also, the simplest way to define human trafficking is to exploit one man for the benefit of another person. This exploitation is in the largest number of cases of sexual nature, but there are also different types of exploitations that are working, such as forced labour, begging, forced to commit serious crimes, as well as establishing a slave relationship or a relationship similar to slavery. That is why we can often hear today that human trafficking is also called modern slavery. No matter what kind of exploitation it is and what exploitation it is, the consequences are always the same, the victim loses his identity, loses his dignity, suffers torture, and all these consequences and each of these exploitations has only one goal, which is to gain the benefits of certain persons, and they use it in such a way that they use coercion, coercion, kidnapping, fraud and so on. What is particularly important is that in this way tens and hundreds of thousands of people in the world are enslaved and that victims of global human trafficking are either dragged into a chain of human trafficking. That is why it is important that the fight against human trafficking is, in fact, the fight against all of us and that it is the task of all of us, and what Minister Vulin mentioned several times today, what we are particularly sensitive to is the safety and safety of children, and that is something that none of us can remain indifferent to, exclusively because there is no child whose life we care about. This is why it is very important that all institutions and authorities in Serbia have a good will, except, of course, the obligations they have, to participate very actively in the prevention and repression of this criminal activity, but I must say that there is a particularly active MUP and it is one of the competent authorities for the implementation of this Agreement alongside the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour and Employment, martial arts and social affairs, in addition to the Centre for the Protection of Victims of Human Trade and, of course, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. It is important that we deal actively with this issue by our authorities and institutions because they thus improve co-operation with other countries, and in this case with countries in the environment, which is of particular importance. Once again, I note that it is particularly worrying that the number 1st traffickers target women and children. Exploitation and attempt to recruit minors are often done via the Internet. This is important because human traffickers have moved a large part of their activities to social networks and the Internet, knowing that our young and children spend most of their time online. I'm saying this for a reason why I think it's a particularly important education system. A particularly important link in curbing human trafficking is and can be an educational system, and above all, because this is such a crime and such a complex crime where both young and children are most exposed and on this road we can only stop by educating our children, where they will be able to recognise violence, be cautious, and thus provide them with some opportunities and ways in which they can first of all protect themselves. That is why I believe that this is a major challenge, but which can be implemented by especially working closely with the education system, primarily with primary and secondary schools, which is particularly important to educate children, informing them about this dangerous problem that threatens them, but also providing them with some advice on how to protect them, how to avoid these situations which can lead them to problems which are simply ways of preventing and protecting them. Also, the pillar of successful fight against human trafficking is continued regional and international co-operation with other countries, their institutions, their services and all those organisations that work to combat this problem. Therefore, co-operation is important in order to have an effective fight in the exchange of data related to the identification of victims, to prosecute perpetrators of the trafficking of human beings, but also to those crimes that have some other elements of exploitation. It is important for us to work together with other countries to be successful and efficient, above all, because of the exchange of experiences other countries have in prevention, but also all those activities that are directed towards strengthening the capacity for these activities to be very good for strengthening the fight against human trafficking. That is why I think it is important that we continue to improve both the legislative and institutional framework in this area. It is important that we speak in Parliament today on this subject. In this way, we raise and develop social awareness of this complex phenomenon, but above all, it is important that we all contribute together to an effective fight against human trafficking and thus help institutions that are involved and who are carrying out these fights. Finally, I would just like to point out that the SPS parliamentary group will support this agreement in the voting day, as well as any other agreements that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3291	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3292	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Minister Vulin with his associates, dear fellow MPs, Serbia is indeed paying great attention to border control, but also to further modernising border crossings, as well as strengthening the capacity of the border service, through the organisation of a really large number of trainings, but also by continuing investment in infrastructure, highways, corridors, as well as the introduction of new information technologies and telecommunications systems at our borders, which as a country whose strategic goal is EU membership we are approaching the European family of people and the implementation of all those necessary European standards. Serbia has opened negotiations with the EU, and in accordance with the criteria for Chapter 24 – justice, freedom and security, it has adopted many years of integrated border management strategies and, in the years ahead, implemented all of these necessary reforms really made significant progress in the area of harmonisation, not only national legislation with EU legal assets, but in parallel with that, I would say, and strengthen these administrative and institutional capacities of all relevant services at the border. I will remind you, in addition to the Border Police Administration, at our border crossings, of the 96 border crossing points that Serbia has, there are other services, such as customs, border phytosanitary inspection and border veterinary inspection, and in order to really get closer to effective border management as a country. In the area of the Republic of Serbia, as I said, we have a total of 96 border crossings, including eight checkpoints with Montenegro. We have a total of 62 highways, 15 railways, four airport and 12 river crossings. The main objectives we want as a state to achieve at our borders, i.e. the implementation of all those legal procedures that carry out our border services, are heading towards the protection of the security and property of Serbian citizens, the removal of threats to the state border, the protection of the public order and the overall security of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand. On the other hand, when we talk about borders and border police, the goals we want to achieve also concern the preservation of health and the environment, as well as the protection of financial interests and the relief and acceleration of international trade. The achievement of these objectives, in addition to the security of the country itself of the Republic of Serbia, whose, I would say, primary and first objective is the security of our citizens, we are indirectly protecting the citizens of neighbouring countries, but also the EU itself, because our country is located at the external borders of the EU-like national creation. Today, international migration is a growing phenomenon both in size and in complexity, which permeates almost all countries of the world. The relation of migration and development is indeed complex and in recent years besides topics such as the observation of the phenomenon of emigration and its relationship towards the development of a population, by considering the reasons for the departure of highly educated and highly qualified persons and presenting it as a loss for the country of origin and gain for the country of reception and the emphasis on the importance of the inflow of monetary data from abroad, resulting in an increasingly and more frequent and more frequent analysis of the phenomenon of migration in the function of socio-economic development. Today, I would say, dear fellow MPs, that today's borders are a symbol of the relationship, of the relationship that the Republic of Serbia has with neighbouring countries, but also of the national production as the EU itself. And it is through this prism that we should consider the importance of the agreement we are discussing today with Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking, but also on the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Frontex. In addition to ratification of numerous agreements with neighbouring countries, which the Republic of Serbia has indeed accepted and ratified in previous years, which concerned the area of co-operation with our institutions in charge of combating trafficking in human beings, women, children, as well as the fight against irregular migration and monitoring of migration flows, because during 2015, only through the Western Balkan route has close to two million people and the route has not been closed today. Serbia has, in parallel, invested large financial resources with the help of our partners from the EU, but also from personal means to modernise our border crossings to invest in equipment, but also to intensify on the other hand our international police co-operation through regular monthly contacts, as well as participation in joint operations in the organisation by international organisations and institutions, such as not only Frontex, but I would also say "Dikaf", which is the Centre for Democratic Control of Armed Forces, but also the International Organisation for Migration. One of the most important co-operations when we talk about this international police co-operation is seen through the participation and co-operation of our country with Frontex through joint operations, education, but also exchange of information. It is about that platform that concerns the management and risk analysis of the Western Balkan countries and "Frontex". Also, increasing the volume of international co-operation, the flow of people, goods, services and capital, one of four basic freedoms on which the EU market alone rests and which is also the basis of the initiative launched by our President, Mr Aleksandar Vucic, which concerns the regional initiative "mini Schengen", will contribute not only to economic strengthening and strengthening the capacity of the entire Western Balkans region, but also to more intensive co-operation in the area of cultural and educational exchange and all this requires open borders, borders that will facilitate trade and exchange of these four freedoms. For that reason, we need to have such border services that we need to create some kind of balance. On the one hand, we must have open borders, and on the other hand we must have this stricter control even closing borders. We have now had a case in a number of countries, the EU itself, which temporarily closed their borders to combat the pandemic of the Covid - 19. It is also necessary to continue co-operation and to work closely with different services and international organisations in order to manage borders in an adequate and efficient way today. The borders must be open, as I have already said, for regional co-operation, co-operation within the Western Balkans region and indeed and in the coming years we will also work as parliament through ratification of a number of agreements against, not only in the introduction of a transport community, regional offices for young people, but also in those transport corridors in the energy field, so that as the whole region as well as faster integrated before full membership in the EU. My colleague Markovic mentioned that crime knows no borders, that it really does not know the nation and religion. That is why today is more important than ever to tighten the control of our borders for all those criminal activities that threaten our country's stability, as well as the entire region. Problems related to smuggling of all kinds, irregular migration, terrorism, organised crime must be addressed throughout the region, and these problems are most visible at our common borders, at our border crossings. We must continue to fight organised crime and corruption, but we must continue to strengthen our state institutions, especially the judiciary and border services, as well as the entire system of rule of law which is the basis of our country's progress on our path to the EU. The agreement between Belgrade and Brussels provides for the deployment of members of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency "Frontex", which will look after joint operations, the deployment of teams in the region of those countries bordering the EU. The activities will focus on halting irregular migration, particularly rapid changes in migration flows, which Minister Vulin spoke of in his opening address, as well as cross-border crime. Indeed, by adopting, by implementing "Frontex", because the office "Frontex" already exists in Belgrade and they have, establishing co-operation with our competent institutions, above all I mean the MUP and the implementation and ratification of this agreement, we will actually include greater technical and operational assistance from Frontex at our borders, which will protect both the Republic of Serbia and all of our citizens. It's very important, I said in 2015 more than two million people went through our country. We are protecting our borders not only to protect our country, we are protecting both EU citizens and the entire EU, but also candidate countries with which Serbia is bordering itself. I would say that this is a technical agreement, that this is the agreement that we are discussing today and that we are going to vote on in the day, I hope, with the support of all fellow Members of Parliament, and adopt and ratify. Frontex also signed with other countries in the environment, it is the same type of agreement, the technical agreement was signed with Montenegro, Albania, Northern Macedonia. The agreement was signed by EU Commissioner for Internal Affairs and Migration, then European Commissioner for Internal Affairs and Migration Dimitris Avramopulus and Serbian Police Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, which allows the European Border and Coast Guard Agency to carry out joint border controls on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in co-operation with the Serbian border police to strengthen the EU's external borders, but also greater security of property and citizens of our country. Also, I would like to say that Frontex can already deploy teams and be operational in the territory of countries that are not EU members and with previous consultations with the EU itself and the country concerned. Also, according to some of the information I found in the European Commission's statements, Frontex plans, that he planned in the previous year, by the end of 2020, that there are about 10,000 people and that Frontex will be able to conclude co-operation agreements with countries that are not in the very immediate environment of the EU. This agreement, when we enter its very essence, the whole text, I would say, is a single operational instrument, whose members of Frontex will be controlled by the host country, and will also work to approve or refuse entry at the EU's external borders, but also to question individuals who have crossed borders illegally. However, it should be said that Frontex liaison officers have been working in Serbia since last year, that their headquarters is regional offices, and coordination organisations, and that this position should also regulate the position of their officials and working conditions in Serbia. I have indeed heard this day, an independent fellow who is an independent messenger of the people in the congregation, indeed has brought forth a series of falsehoods. It is evident that the gentleman did not read the text of the Agreement himself, because if he had read it, he would have seen that in Article 7. Agreements where privileges are better defined, the immunity of entire members of teams are said to be that the home Member State can lift immunity from the criminal, civil and administrative judiciary of the Republic of Serbia and thus the abolition must always be explicit. Also, if any damage is done by Frontex members, the Republic of Serbia may, through the Executive Director, request that the compensation be paid by the Member State participating in the Frontex mission, so that this agreement will contribute to strengthening the relations and security of our citizens, strengthening relations between Serbia and the EU, as well as greater security of our citizens. Finally, I would like to say that often borders are a symbol of the relationship between the countries and the good neighbourly relations that the Republic of Serbia has with our neighbouring countries. The boundaries often separate us, and culture and good neighbourly relations are what will bring us together in the future. With this in mind, I would call on all my fellow MPs, regardless of which political parties come to support the ratification of such important agreements, both in the interest of Serbia and in the interest of greater security of the pigs of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3293	Thank you. National MP Mr Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3294	Dear Presidents, respected ministers with co-workers, respected fellow MPs, the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU in actions conducted by the European Border and Border Intervention Agency in the Republic of Serbia was signed this year. The essence of the agreement is that members of the European agency as Frontex help Serbia manage borders, conduct joint operations and deploy their operational teams along the area where Serbia borders the EU. The adoption of the law will set up a legal framework that in a comprehensive way regulates all aspects of the coordination necessary for the implementation of the actions of Frontex officials that can take place in our country. The aim is to provide full support to the Republic of Serbia for more effective border control, strengthening the capacity of our border units to be more operational and efficient in the implementation and management of migration. Frontex officials will not act independently, but exclusively in coordination with our services and according to the regulations and laws of our country, which is otherwise a candidate for EU accession. Some Frontex liaison officers are already present in Serbia and the co-operation has already been established, and the headquarters of this organisation and this office is already in our country. The border control law defines a way to carry out international co-operation. This implies a set of powers, actions and measures to be carried out at the national border and at border crossings in order to combat cross-border crime, infringement of borders, control of border clearances and take measures and actions towards persons making illegal actions. Joint activities of our services and Officer Frontex will also focus on solving the problem of illegal immigration, human trafficking and smuggling of migrants, preventing drug trafficking and weapons, fighting terrorism and cross-border crime. Although Serbia is not an EU member, it is a partner in migration management, as well as part of an EU border control system. Five Western Balkan countries Albania, Montenegro, BiH, Northern Macedonia and Serbia signed agreements with Frontex as part of Brussels' new approach to resolving, managing migration. Co-operation with neighbouring countries, as well as strengthening international co-operation with agencies such as Frontex, is part of a national strategy for integrated management of the borders of the Republic of Serbia. It is important for Serbia that the countries of the region co-operate on this issue and that we all find solutions to migration together, because the problem will be in the coming years. Co-operation can only improve and solve problems. Frontex was founded in 2004, to help EU countries, as well as countries associated with the Schengen area. The organisation's headquarters is in Warsaw and is considered one of the most important parts of the EU in the area of freedom, security and justice, and has been particularly important since the beginning of the 2015 migrant crisis. Many humanitarian organisations have been known to accuse Frontex border guards of violating international, refugee and migrant rights or to tolerate how their colleagues from individual EU member states do so. In many situations these charges were justified. All these years of the migrant crisis, we have been very successful in dealing with all the problems and Serbia's position is to support all migrants in the coming period and to systematically resolve their status and enjoy the minimum of human rights. The Balkan route will continue to be very interesting for migrants. Serbia's migration cannot be avoided at all. With or without Frontex, we have to deal with this problem, have a strategy and predicts how to deal with these issues. When it comes to the agreement of the Republic of Serbia with Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking, it is the same in the context of security and control of our borders. The agreement with Northern Macedonia addresses issues concerning co-operation on prevention, identification, protection of co-operation in criminal and other proceedings. Human trafficking is a global phenomenon affecting all countries, especially countries in political and economic transition, undeveloped countries, developing countries, as well as countries affected by war. This bill is in the interest of our two countries and Serbia in this way shows how much it takes for the whole region to co-operate on all issues that are in the interest of the citizens of the Western Balkans. By giving the vaccine to Northern Macedonia, Serbia has proved its commitment to provide the neighbours with hands and help whenever possible and will be so in the coming period. These agreements are in the interest of our country and the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all these agreements on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3295	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3296	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the creation of an environment in which we can all progress is of great importance to the Republic of Serbia. One of the agreements that is here today is an agreement with Northern Macedonia, and Minister Selakovic also spoke about bilateral relations with Northern Macedonia. On that occasion, he said that relations are at an extremely high level, that meetings are at the level of the president of the state, the Prime Minister, but also at the level of foreign ministers, which speaks of good neighbourly relations between our two countries. The relations between our two countries are based on five principles, namely five guidelines defined during a meeting between Alexander Vukic and Prime Minister Zaev. They say this: one -- the willingness of both countries to resolve all open issues through dialogue, improving the friendly relations of the people, citizens of the two countries, improving economic and trade co-operation, intensifying mutual communication at the highest level and supporting each other on the economic path and strengthening good neighbourly relations that contribute to the stability of the entire region. For the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is of paramount importance and it is important to reiterate that the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of the Interior of Northern Macedonia have several co-operation agreements, more specifically, which have been concluded in different areas, which are the area of fighting organised crime and regular migration, readmissions, driving permits, as well as internal controls. It should also be mentioned and reminded of the donations of the vaccine, which President Vukic gave on behalf of all of us to Northern Macedonia, because this shows these good neighbourly relations and intent, the good intentions of the Republic of Serbia towards Northern Macedonia and co-worker Dusica Stojkovic mentioned "mini Schengen", the importance of "mini Schengen" not only in this sense of economic strengthening but also further. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia was signed in Skopje on 16 December 2019 and it will contribute to the affirmation of bilateral co-operation between our two countries. The aim of this agreement will be to improve systemic resources to combat human trafficking, and the aim of this agreement is to integrate its content into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which contributes to the natural coordination of national activities to combat human trafficking. At the very beginning of the exhibition, I mentioned the need to create an environment in which we can all progress, and I believe it is very important and I believe that no one will object to me for looking back at the current political situation in the Republic of Serbia and the region, given that it is certainly in a big relationship and of importance even with today's agenda points. Yesterday, the SNS Bureau sessions were held and it analyzed everything we got as a fact that the people, or what the citizens, what the people thought of us. Of course, we owe the citizens great gratitude for their support, for they know the people who are serious and who are capable of bringing change and solving problems. However, support will not last a single day unless we are ready and determined to continue working on ourselves, to work even harder, even more seriously, even more diligently and to fight and to show the citizens that we want to fight for the progress of the Republic of Serbia. As the president himself, Alexander Vukic says about these others, about our political inexperiences, we don't have to say anything, because he says much more what they say about themselves, what they generally talk about than we could ever talk about. We have to change ourselves and be even better. Accordingly, we opened this week in the territory of the municipality of Voždovac and the Office for Communication of People's MPs with citizens. This is of great importance to the citizens of Voždovac because this is the first time the history of Voždovac, according to my knowledge, that the citizens of Voždovac, but also the MPs, will have the opportunity to communicate with each other in the premises of the Voždovac municipality. Each of us in his domain must give maximum. I know how many individual colleagues and colleagues, MPs, and that they are in constant communication with citizens. I also know how much it means to our citizens, to our fellow citizens, to our neighbors when they can call us any day, whether it's a day or a weekend. You, Minister Vulin, said Alexander Vukic was the only free leader in the Balkans. You'll agree with me, I'm sure as other colleagues and colleagues, MPs, when I say it's absolutely true, but it's also that for us, we all work together and all our strengths to make it possible for Serbia to make a better place to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3297	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break from one hour. We'll continue at 3 p.m. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3299	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, respected ministers with co-workers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the fight against crime of all kinds is a priority of SNS policy and a policy priority that was outlined in 2012 by the coming SNS to power. Human trafficking is the form of the most serious type of crime that basically has the exploitation of people and the endangerment of basic human rights and the freedom of every human being. For this reason, it is very important that the fight against human trafficking is effective, powerful, that information exchanges occur between countries, because human trafficking does not involve only one country, it is a global problem and implies presence in many countries. For this reason, it is unusually important to sign an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Northern Macedonia in the fight against human trafficking. What I want to stress is that this agreement recognises all phases of communication between the competent state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the competent authorities of Northern Macedonia in identifying and identifying victims of human trafficking. This Agreement also recognises and defines all preventive activities to be undertaken by the competent authorities of the States. In the focus of this agreement, in my opinion, is in fact the protection of victims of human trafficking in accordance with the assessment and their needs, but also the prosecution of all those perpetrators of this disgusting crime. I must also point out that the extent of the seriousness of the Republic of Serbia attaches to this problem, that is, this criminal activity, is shown in the agreement and in the part where it is precisely defined that the five competent state authorities of the Republic of Serbia will be engaged in curbing the problem of human trafficking between the two countries. This shows that human trafficking requires one multi-sectoral approach, one related functioning of all institutions, and not only institutions, but also the non-governmental sector. I must point out that the first time in the Republic of Serbia in 2019 in Belgrade is the opening of the first shelter for victims of human trafficking, which is also very important from the aspect of their identification, but also from the aspect of their recovery, in order to overcome the trauma to which they were exposed, but also from a point of view so as not to come back into the hands of traffickers whose primary goal is to actually get the money through exploitation, i.e. make profits using the most diverse and demonstrative actions, such as coercion, coercion, etc. Of course, what I want to point out is that during the migrant crisis, which was highly expressed in 2015 and 2016, with other state institutions, the police took all necessary actions and measures to protect the safety and security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also to ensure that people who for various reasons had to leave their hearths. I would especially like to stress that this agreement, and during the migrant crisis, is particularly focused on the issue of children and on the protection of children, both migrant children and children in order to protect them from human traffickers, precisely because special protection measures are being taken to protect their best interests and, of course, special risk assessment measures and special measures in support of voluntary return to the country of origin, if possible. If not possible, all necessary actions are taken to ensure adequate accommodation for children victims of human trafficking. What I want to point out is that, since the arrival of SNS with one responsible economic policy, there has been a strengthening of the police, particularly in terms of police equipment, in terms of new uniforms, in order to have the necessary means to work. What I especially must stress is an action relating to obtaining apartments under more favourable conditions. These apartments for members of security forces, including police, have certainly started building thousands of apartments in Belgrade, then building in other cities, Nis, Vranj, Novi Sad. In this way, the state shows that it takes care of police, who honorably and fairly guard the state border, but also care about the safety and security of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, by receiving apartments, they will be further motivated to carry out their jobs adequately and responsibly. I also have to point out about the equipment, in the last year and a half, the police have got four helicopters most modern, with the most modern equipment, and these helicopters are about to serve in medical support situations, in order to treat and transfer patients from one place to another, but also in case of emergency situations, fire extinguishing etc. We need to remember in 2014 when the floods in the Republic of Serbia were unremembered. The yellow tycoon company in 2012 left the country devastated and destroyed. In 2014, superhuman and superhuman efforts and citizens and all institutions were made to save people from the flooded area, and above all I think of Obrenovac. But I also have to say that they didn't have a single boat at the time because the yellow tycoon company was led by the yellow biggest octopus, Dragan Gilas, for example, sold the boat for nine thousand dinars. Also, I must point out that the police played a major role during the Kovid pandemic and as far as helping our population, I mean, primarily in terms of support and help with food, in taking medicines, but also in monitoring the situation on the ground and protecting the population from this severe infectious disease. For differences from the police who performed their duties honorably and responsibly during the Kvid 19 pandemic, the hooligan attacks, led, of course, again to Dragan Gilas, took place here outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Those hooligan attacks hurt cops. One of them broke both legs and that cop and today he's in recovery, still unable to work. Therefore, the policy of Dragan Gilas and the yellow tycoon company is – kill, lie, steal, manipulate. They don't have any other policy. Hate policy, and above all, hate policy towards the most successful, which is our President Alexander Vukic, is what feeds them and supplies them. It's a policy that can't lead to anything but their self-destruction, because there's an impenetrable barrier in front of them, and that's the people and the huge trust the people gave to our president, Alexander Vukic. I also want to point out that Serbia is another country in Europe by the number of vaccinated populations. I also want to point out that Serbia is the only country in the world where citizens can choose which vaccine they will be vaccinated with and of course the vaccination is fully organized in a fantastic way. Over a million inhabitants have been vaccinated, and revaccination has been secured. One of the goals that Alexander Vukic drew and one of the goals of this government is to fight the mafia, and to fight the mafia on all fronts. In that sense, I would like to commend all the security structures, as well as the police who in one perfect way carried out the arrest of the notorious mob-criminal group Belivuk, brought them in, deprived them of their freedom and brought justice so that they would no longer walk the streets of Belgrade and would not continue to commit the most monstrous crimes. What I also want to point out is police work in the local community, police working with their citizens, as well as that, while visiting police stations across Serbia, you said that the only success of the chief of police administration will be how much crime there is less on the street and how safer and safer citizens are in their cities, municipalities, villages and how much safer their children are in their streets. These are all the reasons why the MP group Aleksandar Vukic – will support all the proposed agreements for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3300	Thank you. The word has been made by Minister Vukin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3301	Thank you for allowing me with your speech to address you, too, honourable MPs, but also Serbian citizens about a very important topic that we are not talking about enough. It's just a cop in the community. So, my medium-term goal, as Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior, is that what we used to call a police officer, is to return to all major cities first, and then to do so in every local self-government in our Serbia. It takes us a first period of nine months for people to undergo appropriate training and courses, to receive a significant number of police officers. But here, I want to tell the citizens of Serbia that in the next year, for a year and a half, I want to say that in all the great cities we have, like once, officers in every sector, in every neighborhood, we have a man that we can address both ourselves and our children and that we are far safer in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3302	Thank you, Minister. I'm glad you mentioned a medium-term plan. You know I like medium-term and long-term plans. Let's move on. The People's Messenger Nenad Krstic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3303	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, since we are today discussing an important agreement with Northern Macedonia, because I am someone who comes from southern Serbia and I know how much these agreements mean, primarily to the population living in southern Serbia and the population on the other side of the border, that is, on the other side of Northern Macedonia. I just want to point out that there are more than 30,000 Serbs living on the other side of the border in the Kumanovo area and that every agreement that is on the agenda in our parliament is very enthusiastic, because they too have a vision of a guarantee of survival and life in another country, and good neighbourly relations with Northern Macedonia are helping us. We have seen, the first amount of vaccines that our President Aleksandar Vukic gave to the brothers' people in northern Macedonia means because one part of these vaccines will surely reach our citizens, I say, citizens, or people who exercise their rights and live in northern Macedonia. These agreements are more than necessary to prevent and, if possible, eradicate human trafficking, because the most difficult and inhumane act is also the act of trafficking in someone's life. So, such agreements are more than significant, and all in the positive direction of well-being for the citizens of Serbia and Northern Macedonia also says "Little Schengen", as well as the then donation of a vaccine that also means life for all citizens of Northern Macedonia. I just want to apostrophe the fact that members of the internal affairs, or border police, and at the time of the migrant crisis, a good part of our police officers went to the border with Greece, helped northern Macedonia prevent the same and illegal any kind of trade, including people, all for the benefit of two people, since the migrant crisis took place most in southern Serbia, i.e. most of it passed through Presevo, Vranje and Pcinj County. So, I say, I come from Pcinj County, and I know how important co-operation between the two countries is, and the adoption of laws like this. I would also like to commend the Vranj Police Department, given that there has been one crime for the weekend, where it has not been 48 hours, the action of members of the Ministry of the Interior has shed light on the case and put the case ad act. Unfortunately, one young life has been lost, but I repeat that all of our members of the internal affairs are doing their job and truly deserve a great commendation, given that within 48 hours they have found and ended this case, that young lives, primarily female children, are protected. I will also refer briefly to the agreement with the European Union. We are seeking full membership of the European Union, so that every agreement with the European Union is for our benefit, and we also have the co-operation of services with the European Union, i.e. border control and smuggling of any kind does not suit us either, and we know well that we have a border with three countries that are full members of the European Union, so I also say that this agreement is of importance to our country. I think in the voting day, the legislator group, Alexander Vukic, will support this for our children. Just once again commendation for the quick and effective response of the police forces in Vranj.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3304	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Nevenka Kostadinov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3305	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating trafficking in people on the agenda today is being brought in order to improve, prevent, identify, protect, refer to and co-operate in criminal and other procedures and assist in the voluntary return of trafficking victims, citizens and to improve the fight against trade. This is because human trafficking is one of the most difficult forms of human rights violations. Co-operation with neighbouring countries, especially in the Balkans area, is very important for both economic and political and security reasons, both for citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for citizens of neighbouring countries. One of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia are good bilateral relations with its neighbours. In particular, we have adopted several agreements with the Republic of Northern Macedonia over the past year, all in order to improve neighbourly relations that are of interest to the citizens of both sides. I will mention several agreements concerning improving the relationship of co-operation with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. During 2019 an integrated border crossing of Presevo-Tabanovci was opened, on which services work together, all in order to facilitate the flow of people, goods and capital. During last year, we adopted an agreement relating to co-operation in the field of science and education, and at the last meeting of the Assembly we had an agreement on the agenda on co-operation in the fight against migrant smuggling, and here, today we have an agreement on the fight against human trafficking. Our country is also telling its neighbours that ten days ago Serbia donated vaccines to the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to protect the health and lives of our southern neighbours. It was with these vaccines that she started immunisation in Macedonia. Today comes a new contingent and new amount of vaccine, which Serbia donates for the second time to its southern neighbour. As I said, good co-operation is important for all citizens of one and the other countries, and it is especially important for border zones, for border posts and for citizens who live and work along the border on both sides. I am saying this because I come from the border area, from the municipality of Bosilegrad, which is situated in a triangle on the border of Serbia with Bulgaria and Macedonia. Given the proximity of the border and the fact that in the near past with Macedonia we lived in the same state, when there were no borders, many of our fellow citizens were educated in Macedonia, then they were employed there, and later emigrated with their families. By setting boundaries, people, families, and families were separated. This has led to our municipality being dangerous with the state border on two sides, which has also brought new problems to the local population. To facilitate the border crossing on our municipality's territory along the border with Macedonia, the Goles border crossing, which serves to cross the local population with the help of the ID card, has been opened, and this transition is of great importance to the locals, because they do not have to cross miles to cross from one country to another. I would like to point out that there is a need to provide better conditions for the work of officials at that border crossing, because people there work in very difficult conditions. First of all, I'm referring to the adaptation of the facility itself, where the border police are working. There is an even bigger problem in road infrastructure, and that should also be done. Namely, the border crossing from Bosilegrad is about 40 kilometers away, 20 kilometers away, and the section is paved under asphalt, and the rest is a road without asphalt. This way, employees of the MUP and border police go every day, and many travel all the way from Vranja, Leskovci and other remote cities. In the direction of the border crossing, Bosilmetal mines also work, and this is the way they travel daily and employees in the mine to their workplace, as well as cargo trucks with ore. The road passes through populated places, through the villages of Klamino and Bistar, and the locals struggle with dust, which rises by passing the vehicle. I note that the state road share on the Macedonian side was paved over the entire length of last year from the Goles border crossing to the Kriv Palanka municipality. Somewhere in the length of about 20 kilometers, as long as the distance of the unfalted section of the road is on our side. Given the needs of the border crossing, mines and employees in it, as well as the locals, I think that the priority of all the priorities is to pave the way for us, which would make it easier to travel and live in the area, because this kind of road infrastructure places problems both in winter and summer. To point out, these are extremely beautiful areas, where nature hasn't spared its beauty, so now it's up to us to exploit these potentials, and we can build infrastructure to make it easier for the lives of the people who live there, and to keep that little population in that area. This is because our end is in a specific geographical position, very poor and devastated, and the sharp border is another problem. That's why we need to limit the problem, i.e. Threats, turn into an advantage, i.e. A chance, and we can only build infrastructure and connect people on both sides of the border with joint projects modelling European countries to preserve these regions. In doing so, it is necessary to work on creating conditions for the employment of people so that they have something to live on in those areas. I keep saying that the border is not guarded by the military and the police, but by the locals, i.e. people who live on both sides of the border. Now, Minister, I would ask you to allow me to take advantage of your presence and present another problem that plagues, not only my fellow citizens, but also the citizens of the mountainous mountainous areas, namely, the problems that military vehicle owners have about registration. In fact, it's military trucks and jeeps that were purchased from the military in their own condition, but now people have a problem, they can't register them. These vehicles are very important for areas like ours, because they're the only ones who can traffic on such terrains, they're very important for the population, because they're necessary for the supply of food to people who live there, for the transport of sick and old, and cargo trucks are for the transport of wood, both for their own needs, so to sell further, because the exploitation of forests is the only source of income. In fact, the problem arises in technical examinations, when people cannot carry out technical checks, so they are forced, some drive vehicles inside, where they pay for registration at very high prices, others drive their vehicles in Bulgaria, where they register after the checkup, pay for registration there, and then drive them to us, and thirds who do not have any of these two options, risk driving such vehicles unregistered, very often and technically incorrect. I would therefore ask that there be some possibility, even if these vehicles are assigned special tables, to limit their movement, because such vehicles do not go on highways and highways, only traffic in such areas, because they would enable people to drive their vehicles, that is, to settle their needs with vehicles, and on the other hand to drive them in accordance with the law. In the end, let me just finish, to get back on the subject, that in the voting day, I will support the agreements that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3306	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go. I'm just saying that the parliamentary group is still 130 minutes away. Of course, I don't expect you to talk that much, but just so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3307	I think I can spend all my time, you'll have to wait. Dear Mr. Vulin, I am pleased to see you very often and in this assembly I am looking at in this high house, which speaks of your commitment to work, you and your ministry. I am pleased that this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking is on the agenda for several reasons. First of all, we are with the Macedonians ethnically close people, and on the other hand we have the same history. Furthermore, we have the same Serbian Orthodox faith, although the Macedonians own another, but it is still not recognised by the Serbian patriarch, almost the same language and almost the same letter, almost the same culture, if not the close and common and almost the same past. That is why this anti-trafficking agreement is extremely important and it is good that it is on the agenda of this high house. This co-operation, as we have seen, will take place on many issues from the domain of combating human trafficking, and in particular on the exchange of information and data on the identification of victims of human trafficking, as well as on the exchange of information in order to recognise protection and help victims of human trafficking and voluntary return to the country of origin of these people. The same is true of the implementation of joint projects in the area of prevention in the fight against human trafficking, and I think it is an extremely good area. Furthermore, on the exchange of data in criminal proceedings, and I believe that the exceptional area of co-operation is important in organising training, workshops and seminars and in exchanging experiences in the fight against human trafficking. Dear President of the National Assembly, human trafficking is extremely linked to corruption. I'm not going to talk about it, since I was talking about it in the last session of the Assembly, there's white, black, gray, etc., but I'm only going to give one piece of information when it comes to human trafficking, white corruption. When it comes to white corruption, I will give an example, which is corruption in order to achieve a privileged position based on a kinship or friendship. I am giving an example to Bojan Pajkic, who was president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, who has been attacking SNS and coalition partners these days, especially President Vukic. Pajtic, while in the Executive Council of Vojvodina, employed what I am saying from Jesic: "Pajtic employed in the Executive Council of Vojvodina's aunts, sisters, aunts, sister-in-laws, sister-in-laws, brother-in-laws and godmothers by being of 270 workers in the Executive Council of Vojvodina when he came, when he left, he had 670 workers," 17. 09th of June 2014 That's what their yellow Jesic said about Pajtic, and he's giving lessons to us these days. Speaking of this agreement with Northern Macedonia, let me say that Dragan Gilas, for Europe, Gilas, since there are two passports, met in Macedonia with criminals and underwear thieves from Miami, where he agreed to fund the opposition and destroy the authorities, especially Alexander Vukic, and bring himself and his opposition to power. To this end, they received funding of about 300 to 400 000 euros and financed protests "One out of five million" with the goal of ousting the authorities not by the elections but by the street. Speaking of Dragan Djilas, let me say that both Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic, otherwise the political and electric rabbit of Dragan Djilas, spit on the victims of Jasenovac these days, as you have seen. In a duet, they staged a tweet saying that President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic is "a patient and should be treated", only because, respected citizens, as he said he saw the film Predraga Gaga Antonijevic "Dara from Jasenovac" because he said he was "hard and important to our people who died". This Twitter player was particularly angry that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic said that the realization of the film is happening on his initiative. Can you believe that was supported by Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic?- I'm sorry. Speaking of Jasenovac, I apologize, just one piece of information after one 30-40 years of studying it, I have four scientific papers at four international conferences on Jasenovac, immediately to say that there are few of us from Serbia, one or two, to say now one piece of information that has not happened in the history of humanity, not one nation, but what is Serbian. Note, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Ustasha looted treasure of the gold jewelry of the fallen Serbian martyrs of the Jasenovo death camp in 1941-1945, from the necklaces of gold, gold teeth, gold chains and other gold jewelry turned Ustashas into diamonds, but was used by Ustasha in immigration and Zagreb's Kaptol for arrival, believe it or not, Franje Tuđman to power and arming the secession of Croatia in 1991-1995. It didn't happen in mankind's history. Ferdinand Jukic, these are all Croatian sources, a former agent at the time of the ban on the supply of weapons on the black market, testified that the diamonds from the Jasenovic victims brought Tudjman to the cabinet of Croatian Cardinal Franjo Kuharic in 1990. And behold, Jukic says, I quote: "In the early 1990s, when the money for Croatian defence ran out, I was invited to the office of President Franjo Tudjman, who showed me his hand on diamonds, said – When you are already, as it is said, all-powerful in supply, trying to sell something." Jukic says his diamonds were in three bags, and he took several diamonds and sold them. What is important, the Croatian elections say, was later worth about 80 million dollars. So with the gold teeth of Serbian and Jasen victims, turned into diamonds later, after 75 years, Tudjman and Croats took the weapon with which they slaughtered Serbs in 1991. All I'm saying to you, honourable MPs, are Croatian sources. Let's move on to the deal with Mexico. Thanks to Mexico for not admitting so-called. independence of Kosovo and Metohija. However, I must say, there are those in Serbia who recognize him. Look wonders, one Mexico and a mass of countries do not recognise, but admits that's why Serbia's Turajlic, who said in 2018, "Kosovo is lost territory for Serbia, the fight for Kosovo's resolution and Metohija is a game". This is a play for her. Do you know who that woman is? This is the woman who said about Stefan Nemanje's monument, quotes: "The monument of Stefan Nemanje should be torn down and removed from the Sava Square in Belgrade as soon as possible." The media under the control of Gilas claims that no one said they needed to be torn down. Here's a quote, a day, a time and an hour to quote. Furthermore, on N1, under the control of Gilas, she said that this monumental monument, I quote, “something that every normal man should be ashamed of. ” And to cut this short, dear President of the Assembly, why is she and not her, you'll see, there's more against Stefan Nemanja's monument? In my opinion, firstly, because he was raised to the Serbian lighthouse, secondly, because Stefan Nemanja is the founder of the medieval Serbian state, because the monument is the work of a Russian artist, further, because the initiator of the monument is Alexander Vukic and finally, because the monument to Stefan Nemanja is good for Serbian cultural and patriotic duration. Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr. Vulina, now that we're on this agreement with Mexico, we said Mexico does not recognise the false state of Kosovo, but it has academics who confess. Academic President SANU Kostic, academician Simovic, academician Teodorović and, believe it or not, a post member of SANU Ljubodrag Dimic, who defends Kostic, and he said, quote, and as you respected citizens know you MPs, I do not speak up in my head. Citing, the president of the Academy said - Kosovo and Metohija de facto and de jure is not Serbian. So I repeat -- Kosovo and Metohija de facto and de jure are not Serbian, a finished quote, which is notorous untrue. I ask respected academics – is that ours, de jure, according to our Constitution Serbian? Is it Serbian after Resolution 1244? Is the United Nations Charter Serbian? Is that a legal document? Is the final document from Helsinki in 1975, where it is explicitly said that the provinces do not have the right to secession? Why are respected academics saying that? They have no right to do so as academics, because we have not opened the constitutional issue of Kosovo and Metohija, in this high house, or in Serbia. It violates territorial integrity, because we didn't open it. Is it true we didn't? That's right. That's what citizens all know. Now, allow me, respected citizens, the academics must know that Kosovo and Metohija are the site of our Serbian destiny. Do they know or don't they? In Kosovo, we were most looking forward to it, ladies and gentlemen, and we hoped for it most in Kosovo. In Kosovo, we reached the most, we suffered the most, and we resurrected the most. In Kosovo all things came true, and the kingdom, and the kingdoms crowned and the monasteries, and the Patriarchies, and the first spark of Orthodoxism sought and a mighty line of Nemanja, of which 12 saints became known as 12 of God's apostles. In Kosovo, gentlemen of the academics, the law was above us. We were all together in Kosovo. And today, in two sentences, Kosovo is covered in darkness, crushed, fueled. There is no harvest, no seed, no generation, no order. Everything in between, the academics, gave and defiantly turned. Gentlemen of the Academy, in Kosovo, we are in a Serbian state of oppression, and our foundations are being embraced. The Serbs are almost small. There's been grief down the Bistrica. There is no work, no order, no justice in Kosovo. Only for the Serbs in Kosovo there is no right, neither the Roman nor the Holy One, nor God's, nor the human, nor the honorable one. A lot of black people have repeated themselves on it, with wounds, open, with tears in their eyes, with a candle that beats, with an ash that never stops, with a scarf of black that we don't take off, and we had law and state. We had everything to do with Kosovo. Gentlemen of the Academy, today Kosovo is under someone else's boot, pressed with hatred. The Metohija in the garage, only our mountain and water over it were not killed. The Imperial Prizren is in black, the Left in flames. "From the left, the fire of the dusk of Simeon, "the fire of the dusks of the world, defends them, lest the dusks deceive them. The seminary has relaxed, and gentlemen of the academics, here she comes back to life. The students are down there again and the songs are singing. And where are we, gentlemen of the academics? Are we dead with worry? Why are you, gentlemen academics, estranged from yourself? Has the impotence, gentlemen of the academics, burned you? Is that missing, gentlemen, Kosovo from you? Are you losing it, gentlemen of the academics, the sense of human measure, the sense of justice? Do you agree only to other people's criteria that we're guilty of defending ourselves and defending ourselves? Do you mind, gentlemen of the academics, the Serbian duration in Kosovo when you speak like that? Who doesn't know, gentlemen of the academics, that we didn't kidnap Kosovo from anyone, but only always defend it? We will defend him now, if necessary, with you, gentlemen of the academics, or without you. It's our country, gentlemen of the academics, from the primordial and caring of our greatest today. That's why, gentlemen of the academics, we're missing our differences on Kosovo. Let's strengthen our unity from within. Let us learn that the crown of Lazareva in Kosovo is not lost to be abducted around it. She stayed in Kosovo with her head to gather. Let's get together, gentlemen of the academics, to be cursed by the pass. In the end, Mr. Vice President, Dr. Orlic, it's never been easy on our journey of honor. Well, by that, gentlemen, we've been remembered. So let's turn to ourselves. Let's go our separate ways, which Alexander Vucic and SNS are on now. Why, gentlemen? Because someone else's path never gets home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3308	Thank you. The word is Svetlana Milijac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3309	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, today we have before us a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking. How trafficking is an illegal act and a criminal act, and we know that President Aleksandar Vukic, president of Serbia, has put one of the priorities before all of us and the Serbian government, which is the fight against crime and corruption. We will certainly vote this bill in the voting day, but before that we need to talk about what is happening both in our country and in countries in the environment and everywhere in the world, as far as human trafficking is concerned. Since human trafficking is an anti-legislative act that violates the legislation, i.e. the intended origins of a country, then, international regulations, also endanger vital functions both victims and society themselves. Human trafficking is an exploitation, and exploitation of the victim involves forced labor, sexual exploitation most often. It also implies the forced execution of criminal acts on behalf of and on behalf of other persons, and it also implies what we mentioned a little, and we should mention, servitt or organ removal. All types of exploitation lead to the victimization of society, a violation of human rights, are a serious crime that has been financially motivated. Human trafficking, especially trafficking in women and children, is a problem of world scale. It affects not only countries in transition, although more often, it affects much more developed societies. The international anti-trafficking system rests on the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, which is a violation of all other conventions, protocols, or declarations relating to the fight against human trafficking. Standards for the protection of human trafficking are defined closer to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, which was held in New York in 2000 and stems from United Nations resolutions. It is subject to a protocol called Palermo Protocol and is based on three deparadygmas, i.e. prevention, protection, processing – prevention, protection, prosecution, or processing of organised groups dealing with human trafficking. The bearers of organized human trafficking are serious criminal groups. I said there were those in Serbia. We remember the example from Smederev when the organized crime group, of three men and one woman, kidnapped, tortured and sold for 200 euros to a 17-year-old girl. After that, we also have examples from the Frogs that the same organized crime group kidnapped men, followed them, or deported them to Belgium that had to commit crimes for them and where the organized criminal group made a daily income from these victims of human trafficking over 2,000 euros a day. In order to improve prevention, identification, protection of victims of human trafficking, guidance and co-operation in criminal proceedings, or in criminal prosecution, today we have before us a proposal for a bill to confirm the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the area of human trafficking. This Agreement relates to any type of trafficking in human beings and concerns that both countries Parties to this Agreement, which have committed themselves by ratifying the Convention to mutual co-operation in the fight against trafficking in human beings, are working together to identify victims, to help those victims return to their country of origin and to all other protocols, or processes in criminal prosecution of perpetrators. What is very important, and we should point out, is that Serbia, like the other republics of the former Yugoslavia, represents a transit of countries of human trafficking, i.e. victims of human trafficking through our country, and the paths of human trafficking are intertwined. According to Europol, the most frequent victims of human trafficking come from Albania, Bulgaria, Moldova and Romania, and transit through the Republic of Serbia and other countries, such as Macedonia, BiH, while, I say, their destinations are Holland, Belgium, Germany, Great Britain, Italy and Spain. Trade routes for people through Serbia start from the south to the north, that is, towards the west. Here we have to mention one case that happened two years ago in Nis at Konstantin Veli airport, when, with the help of the employees of the airport, an organized criminal group has been identified with the help of the police who tried to kidnap a 14-year-old girl and move her abroad, of course, past her will. They originate in Kosovo, and live in the Republic of Macedonia, and that is why this agreement between our two countries is very important. This agreement aims to provide a comprehensive and continuous response of society to human trafficking in line with new challenges, in line with new risks and threats, and to achieve this objective, i.e. by continuing co-operation between our two countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3310	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Boris Bursac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3311	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing today a set of very important and constructive agreements, and I would personally refer to the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking. Dear colleagues, believe it or not, according to the latest UN data, as well as other relevant organisations, such as the international organisation for the fight against slavery, more than 40 million victims of modern, or modern slavery have been identified in the world. To be wordologically precise, modern slavery and human trafficking are used as roof terms for the act of recruiting, hiding, transporting, providing or obtaining persons for forced labour or sexual activities through the use of force, fraud or coercion. Human trafficking is a global phenomenon and there is no country on the globe, regardless of the degree of its development, which is immune to this criminal activity. The goal of human trafficking is clear, which is to make profit or some other benefit through the exploitation of humans. We distinguish sexual exploitation, forced labour, forced begging, forced to commit crimes, illegal adoptions, forced marriages, and even organ trafficking. Often, human trafficking is associated with sexual exploitation, and women and girls are considered to be the only ones at risk. The fact is that 70% of the victims of exploitation are women, but there is no need to forget a work exploitation whose victims are mostly male. Since at the previous session we adopted an agreement with Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating migrant smuggling, I feel the need to make a clear distinction between these two terms. When we talk about smuggling migrants, the goal of smugglers is to make a profit by illegally transferring one or more persons across one or more international borders, of course, with the consent of a smuggler. On the other hand, when we talk about human trafficking, as we have already mentioned, the goal is to make a profit through the exploitation of victims over a long period of time. Smuggling always means crossing the state border, while human trafficking can be an internal, or local character, so when the whole process takes place on the territory of a country, a country. As for Serbia, according to official data from the Centre for the Protection of Victims of Human Trade in October 2020, 48 human trafficking victims have been identified in Serbia. Of that number 23, there are children, 15 girls and eight boys. We must note that the process of identifying victims of human trafficking is further difficult, both by the migrant crisis and by the pandemic of the coronal virus. The general view of the professional public is that migration and situations characterized by the mass of the number of people on the move also represent how fertile they are for human trafficking, and that the number of victims of human trafficking among migrants is much higher. However, this stance in Serbia has proved incorrect because migrants are seen briefly in Serbia and Serbia as a transit country, and the process of identifying human trafficking victims is difficult. Also, the Centre for the Protection of Victims of Human Trade pointed out that at the peak of the migrant crisis they had a modest number of applications, namely three, and then pointed out that it was almost impossible to carry out an adequate assessment of the victims of human trafficking among the migrant population, because it is a population that constantly travels and does not stay in Serbia's territory for long. In addition, the presence of a pandemic of the coronary virus has made human trafficking less visible because much of the activity of human traffickers takes place via the Internet and social networks. Taking into account all these facts, increasingly difficult circumstances in identifying victims, as well as the views of experts who say that the grey number of alleged victims of human trafficking in these areas is far greater than the official one, Serbia as a serious and responsible state is taking all the steps to curb this criminal activity. In addition to the findings, this is the very proposal for an agreement that brings to Serbia the very important forms of co-operation with Northern Macedonia, which are primarily reflected in the exchange of information and data relating to the identification of victims, the exchange of information in order to provide protection and help victims of human trafficking and the voluntary return of these people to the country of origin, exchange of information and data on criminal proceedings in order to more effectively prosecute the perpetrators of criminal offences, the implementation of joint projects in the field of prevention and the fight against trafficking in human beings, training organisations, workshops and seminars and exchange of experiences in order to strengthen their capacity to combat human trafficking. It is a very important agreement for the Republic of Serbia, which aims at timely and comprehensive opposition to this form of crime that we recognise as human trafficking. That is why, I hope, too, in the day of the vote, we will support this, as well as other proposals in the hope that they will be the basis for a strong, modern and safe Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3312	Thank you. The remaining time for the parliamentary group is 99 minutes. The word is Vesna Nedovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3313	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has stood firm in the fight against organised crime in every sense and every aspect. Human trafficking is one of the most difficult forms of human rights violations. The most common victims of the store are women and children. The agreement concerns prevention, identification, protection, co-operation in criminal and other proceedings. The competent authorities participating in co-operation in front of the Republic of Serbia are the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, the Centre for the Protection of Victims of Human Trade, the Republican Public Prosecutor's Office. In front of the government of Northern Macedonia are the MUP, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. Meetings are organised once a year, sometimes more often, exchange information related to the identification of the victim, assist victims, organise voluntary return home, exchange of data in order to prevent, organise training, exchange of experiences. The protection of human trafficking rights concerns the assessment of the needs of victims, informs of rights related to accommodation, health care, social protection, provision of the necessary services and support, assistance in the provision of personal documents, protection of victims in the period of investigation of criminal prosecution, authorisation for temporary stay, support for victims for participation in criminal proceedings. The aim of human trafficking, victims are by force, threat, abuse of trust, relations of addiction, difficult opportunities, the retention of personal documents, recruited to exploit labour, forced labour, prostitution, other types of sexual services, begging, use for pornographic purposes, to take away organs or body parts, child trafficking for adoption and others. Interregional co-operation is very important in terms of exchange of experiences as a strong need for everyone in the region to be involved in solving this problem. In the last decade, children have become the target of people dealing with human trafficking. It's mostly done via the Internet. Trafficists have adapted their methods and are using enhanced youth and children on the Internet, especially in the time of the crown. There's 750,000 predators per second on social networks. It is very important that the more talk is made about organising lectures on the subject by primary and secondary schools with trained lecturers, perhaps even with the person who was the victim, who, by example, will most likely pass on the evil that lurks and points out where the danger threatens. The sowing of hate, the insult, the poisoning of everything continues. The brutal insult of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic by calling her "a mare", as well as the insult of our young counterpart. Someone who knows you well, and who worked and collaborated with you, and in particular Dragan Djilas, especially his desire to boss, Goran Jesic called the real name "Moity Python Team". You of that Flying Circus have allowed us to be satanized. You apologized in order around on behalf of the Serb people only to be in the company of those who and their crimes prescribed to the Serbs, and the goal is to remain in power. Do you think you were big in their eyes? No, they didn't even notice you. It is amazing how much the campaign against showing "Dara from Jasenovac" was right in Belgrade. On-call fighters against the Serbian church, Serbian victims, campaigned against the film. Gilas's sympathiser was distracted by showing the horrors of a nation, for you were so compelled to watch and that RTS collectively vaccinated us with hate. Gentlemen, this isn't about waking up some evil in the Serbian people. This people have never been chauvinistic. The goal is for people to regain consciousness and our children to have a real picture of Serb deaths, not to live in the belief that we are the "bad guys" that spread evil all over the world. Thank you, Dari from Jasenovac, and don't forget. In 19,432 children were killed in the Jasenovac camp. Of which 11,888 Serbian, 5,469 Roma children and 1,911 Jewish. In Voting Day, I will support this agreement as well as my colleagues from the "Alexander Vukic – for our children" parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3314	Thank you, Mrs. Nedovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the very bill of co-operation with the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the field of combating human trafficking tells us a very important fact that has somehow been pushed aside for decades, which is that we share with Northern Macedonia and its citizens the same economic space, that we have a lot in common and that the problems we have are common in one piece and that we should solve these common problems. Serbia is back several years and often attacked by its neighbours, it seems to me the most for reasons not to strengthen Serbian multinationalism, because in Serbia there was no serious, but because of the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, it seems to me that these politicians who led their countries, in the first place, were not responsible even for their citizens, because I can't imagine that someone is attacking the economic development of their neighbours without seeing the opportunity for them to profit from something, i.e. raising their standard of living. You know how worried someone in Croatia is that Serbia may have more GDP growth than Croatia has if it gets a better standard of living from this growth in Serbia. It was a feature of incompetent politicians who wanted to turn their internal problems on Serbia or on the conflict with Serbia, as it seems to me that Serbia in the region should always have been the on-call culprit, to blame Serbia for its problems, which are purely internal. I'm glad our northern Macedonian neighbours don't look at Serbia as the enemy and don't need it. We have proven several times that we want to work together with Northern Macedonia, that we want to develop good and political and economic and every other relationship. In addition, Serbia has submitted a portion of its vaccine against Kovid to the citizens of Macedonia as an expression and goodwill, as well as a desire to help our neighbour really deal with this Kovid. The second law, it seems to me, is much more interesting because the problem lasts longer, and more affects all social life flows in both Serbia and the countries in the environment, and as we know in the EU. It is an agreement with the European Agency on the protection of border belts. I have to say that in addition to getting serious problems when the migrant crisis started, and it started somewhere in 2015, Serbia was burdened with fiscal consolidation and trying to recover its own economy, burdened by the humiliation of the international community that Serbia was guilty of everything that happened here in the 1990s. Unfortunately, and self-absorbed by the former regime, she was also found in a migrant crisis. Many think Serbia was not on a specific scanner at the time. Yes, it is. And how, yes, there has been a change in government, is that Serbia has been given the opportunity, but also in one part of the international community that has never been in favour of Serbia, they expected our mistake as well. A mistake to justify all that was done to Serbia in the 1990s, so that Serbia and Serbs, above all, would be portrayed as barbarians, as bullies, and to drag Serbia into their problems and thus solve the migrant crisis by making Serbia a country to stop the migrant crisis and all of the negative consequences in that stop and Serbia itself suffers. I would also like to say that I would like to confess, first of all, to the members of the MUP and the entire government led by Aleksandar Vukic, because Serbia passed the exam. Unlike many countries that were considered and self-proclaimed to be much better decorated, much more civilized and much more humane than Serbia. These people who have come, I am not going into whether these are economic, political nature, the security nature that Serbia has found on the route for any of them by state authorities is not being violated. In part, and that Serbia had bitter experiences with its own people and much of it and that the Serbs did not, although they depicted us as such. Then Serbia began to gain a huge reputation in the international community, not only among politicians, but also among ordinary citizens who for what reasons followed the situation of the migrant crisis and what kind of relationship migrants have on the way to their own destination. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, Serbia's leadership was attacked from within. I have witnessed here several times from MPs who supported dear Gilas as well as the Serbian and Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and all the interior ministers and defence ministers, in the end, as Serbia becomes a refugee paradise, as Serbs are being expelled and refugees settle in these areas, as entire settlements are being made. We listened to the whole conspiracy theory, not just in the media, but, unfortunately, here in the National Assembly. It was their right to speak of it, not to prevent it, but it was our right to ask for their responsibility in some elections, which happened a little less than a year ago. As a result of such an irresponsible policy, which has been led and in the work of the media led by Dragan Gilas and Solak, there have been some kind of guard, Mr. Minister, some parapolitan structures that have begun to legitimise migrants on the route through Serbia, that scare them, and I am glad to hear from you now that this cannot be done in Serbia anymore, because we, as MPs, have authorised only one state body to legislate, and these are members of the police, or the MUP. And that's not only true for Serbian citizens, it's true for anyone on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Don't let the reputation we have for this crisis be damaged in any way, because it seems to me that every mistake we make is 100 times more difficult than any mistake to make by any other people or any other state. We have our security structures, they are responsible for the security of all Serbian citizens and all those in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If someone thinks they're taking the law into their own hands, outside institutions, they have to be punished according to the law, whoever they are, and there's no discussion there. How much of the world's reputation and how much of Serbia is under Alexander Vukic's leadership is correcting its reputation in the world is telling the fact that a large part of the world's public is monitoring what is happening in Serbia in the fight against the pandemic, that is, the virus that has hit the entire international community. We still have to fight even harder to show that reputation in the right light. Because, Mr. Minister, for weeks I've been getting calls from citizens, our citizens from the diaspora who ask one question, which is, can they enter Serbia? Our citizens. It's not their fault they're asking that question. They left another Serbia, another Serbia that was humiliated by the work of the international community and blamed for the wars of the 1990s, and I will repeat that self-indulgence from the former regime and that self-indulgence went to the point that we as citizens should feel guilty about something that we did not do as members of a nation, nor could anyone on our behalf do it. They left such a Serbia. They don't know this new Serbia now. They don't know our Serbia. They do not know that Serbia is the place where they will be most respected and most secure and most protected than in any other country in the world, because they are our citizens and that we do not allow anyone, through social networks, to scare them that they will be arrested or returned from the border if they want to visit their relatives or come to Serbia. To tell them they can be, no matter what they don't live here, our citizens, if they're here to be vaccinated. That reputation I'm talking about isn't only important to the international community, it's important for us to stop feeling guilty too. I'm a little older, I can't have that feeling in me to make, but in these younger people, in generations that came after, who simply over all the media for some political purposes, within political accounts humiliated an entire nation, these are the reasons why we have to focus even more on returning the reputation of the Republic of Serbia to the International Community, because there are members of our peoples and our citizens all over the world. I see nothing wrong with that and in this agreement that we have concluded between Serbia and the United States of Mexico. Somebody gonna tell me what we have in common? Maybe we should ask a question, even if we don't, why don't we share experiences? Why don't we spread culture, why don't someone meet Serbia in a slightly different way in another light than Serbia was presented in the 1990s or from 2000 to 2012, because through any exchange, through any co-operation that's honest can't produce anything bad, nothing negative. We can only have some improvement from that. The better is that Serbia's reputation comes first, as that reputation means that Serbia is becoming economically more acceptable to any investor. And that our citizens who left the Republic of Serbia 10 and more years ago, to show one fact, which is that in a very short time period in Serbia, a much greater chance of having to succeed in life and achieve themselves on a professional basis than in those countries where they are today. Surely such a desire and struggle would be much easier for us to do so if we did not have that internal problem, seen in the former regime, Dragan Gilas and Solak, which in every way, every success of the Republic of Serbia is trying to undo or portray as a crime. Just remember that until a few weeks ago, they said that there was nothing from the vaccination in Serbia, that they would stand in line and receive vaccines that they said were not good and that they did not achieve the full effect. You know what, they attacked the president of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, all the ministers in the government why we didn't just provide Western technology vaccines. It's like it was important at that point. It was important to primarily protect the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and public health. But who cares about money? It's been proven that in the past they only thought about money. They will think even less about our lives in the future, because they have shown how much they cared about our lives as they have ruined our lives by destroying our economy, our economic and economic system and any future so that those children who remain in Serbia can have and come true. There is no problem in supporting these laws, Mr. Minister, because as far as I can see that these agreements Serbia is slowly but certainly much faster than others would like to take place in the region, in Europe and in the world it belongs to.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3316	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3317	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will talk today about the Agreement on Educational, Cultural and Sports Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of Mexico. First of all, one huge thank you, one enormous thank you to this wonderful great mighty country for confessing so-called. Independent Kosovo. There's no such thing as a creature. There is a Republic of Serbia with two autonomous provinces, Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. The center of our spirituality, our traditions, our culture. Three monasteries and one church are on UNESCO, the Pećka Patriarchy, Gracanica, the church located in Prizren of the Virgin Mary of Ljeviška and the monastery Decani. It's Serbia, full of history, traditions, culture. Once again, Mexico, this beautiful, perhaps far away, but extremely significant country. One of the main objectives of the Republic of Serbia is, above all, foreign policy, good foreign policy management thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia and its President, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. Remember what we looked like from 2000 to 2012. Like a ghetto. Nobody wanted to work with us. Devastated land, destroyed everything. Today's a respectable country. We have extraordinary relations with the People's Republic of China, full of respect, friendship, but also partnerships. Thanks to them, we got a million doses of vaccine. Also, an extraordinary relationship with the Russian Federation. Also, India, Brazil. It means BRIK countries, but also Japan, Israel, the United Arab Emirates, for the sake of Mr. Vukic and the Government. Extraordinary foreign policy. We're building bridges. That's very important. It was seen during the pandemic, if you're networked, if you have information you can pass, if not hard. We are today another country regarding vaccination in Europe. Please, Serbia of 7.5 million, behind the UK, we are sixth in the world. That's how it works. As far as foreign policy is concerned, it should also be noted that our president's initiative was signed and "little Schengen". What does that mean? That means regional development, a good economy. Because anyone who wants to invest will invest in the region. Of course, he invests in the Republic of Serbia and a lot. That's what we see by the percentage of employment. Sometimes 26% unemployed, today plus 7.5%. The historical minimum. I'm sure there wasn't a pandemic to make it 5% in two years, European level. What does "little Schengen" mean? Improving the economy, faster flow of goods, but also capital, recognition of qualifications, goods, people. With a ID, we'll be able to cross the border. That's how it works. Not just that. Our foreign policy has done, that is, our President and Government, not to neglect either the country by chance or the non-classified country. We even have a project. In 2018, there were only 50 students from unclassified countries, today in 2021, 200 students. That's our bonus and that's our plus. You need to work on the bonding. Bilateral policy or trilateral, anyway. It is extremely important for a country of 7.5 people, such as the Republic of Serbia. Now indeed, in this magical country, which is about the vastness of the 13th world, as far as population 11 and the economies of the 14th country in the world are concerned, it's very respectable. We have concluded this agreement and it refers to culture, sports and education. As far as education is concerned, of course we will, how would we do it? The exchange of scientists, but also publications, information. What is still very important and what this agreement is about, which is the opening of cultural centres, the approximation of these two countries to each other, learning language, just improving. We're small, we need friends, like big ones. Besides, it turns out whenever it's thick, it's the ones we believe in. Why? Because we're doing a good job of foreign policy. That's how it's supposed to stay. That goes for sports, that goes for culture. Most importantly, it may still have to be pointed out that there is one member that refers to the protection of cultural heritage, which is of paramount importance. So there is no exporting from the country, nor from the United States of Mexico's cultural heritage, this also applies to Serbia. I will be happy to vote in favour of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3318	Thank you. The word is Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3319	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected fellow MPs and fellow MPs, every agreement we have considered so far and finally adopted has shown that everything it stands for, particularly President Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Government, is being determined and implemented. I believe that this agreement will, above all, contribute to one safer situation in our country, more peaceful conditions, but it will also show that the story of the "mini Schengen" and better relations in the Balkans' space in some words and theories grows to work. My colleagues, previous speakers, mentioned a donation of Serbia's vaccines sent to northern Macedonia and it is only one in a series of indicators when Serbia is economically strong, stable, and always wants to help everyone in the region. I believe that after nearly 30 speakers who have discussed these agreements so far, everything has been said. I think we've touched every topic and every benefit and benefit these agreements will bring. But, dear Minister Vulin, I think your presence in this tide has always been a special weight, because you run a ministry that's been hit daily and whose members worry about the lives of all of us every day. I know that tomorrow the MPs may be able to give you some questions, but as the Rules of Procedure says and rules determine, they will start from the smallest parliamentary groups, so I don't know if I or any of my colleagues will be able to discuss current events with you, but I certainly believe that in addition to these agreements, everyday life in our lives is very important and crucial to our citizens. Speaking of which, every speech of yours is kind of inspiring and every discussion you've had here today has opened up a lot of questions and opened up a lot of issues. First of all, I want to look back at something that we've talked about here on many occasions, which is the fact that whenever an incident happens that nobody can really predict first on impact are the people who represent, for example, the government in that city or in that municipality or in that autonomous province. The other day, there was a catastrophic incident in Novi Sad, where two or three boys were injured, I think. The lightning police reaction, members of the MUP, has arrested the perpetrators, but the interesting sphere, representatives of the former regime, is not enough and something has happened that has become a practice, that the mayor of Novi Sad, Milos Vučević, or the people who run Novi Sad today have been targeted and found guilty of fighting outside the discotheque. It wasn't the case the first time, it happened, and it seems to me, when it was that incident at the discotheque. So, all that is revealed and quickly revealed, the defendants are brought to justice, and that's not enough, but it's been trying to make some kind of political story out of it for days. Then the question arises – what additional pressure are these people who are just doing their job and are working at the MUP and are the first to be hit? If it wasn't just the case in this case, you could see that when there was a fight in Laplem Selo, more than 20 young men were beaten, as many as there were. The fight was arranged, the son of a man who represents some interests with Rada Trajkovic and Kurti was injured, only I don't know whose interests, and the citizens know better that they are the interests of all those not Serbs, was injured in that agreed fight, and then faster, they better accused the Serb list and Alexander Vukic of telling him. I'm saying all this because such disgusting accusations upset the public and upset the citizens of Serbia who rightly wonder if anyone can and to what extent can muddle, throw away, accuse innocent people of something they have nothing to do with. Where is there a limit to that spoken word? You know, it's really hard to explain to anyone maybe that nobody could really predict what was going to happen in front of that discotheque in Novi Sad, or the coffee shop, or whatever, and it's really hard to explain to someone right now that even though the police did do their job, that the scam they were throwing these days remains and is somewhere to be carried out. You spoke, Mr. Vulin, here and about the situation of 2015, when President Aleksandar Vukic, along with Mr. Vladimir Putin, prevented that disaster from Serbia bringing the epithet of genocide, genocide, but, for the sake of the people watching this transmission and everything that's going on in our country, you know, there was a female MP here. She is the first now to hit fist of Dragan Gilas, who presents such lies and the truth that they must even, from the Russian Federation's foreign ministry, deny her when she presents those lies. I will just remind you that on 27 June 2016, she was one of the signatories, so MPs who requested the motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica. So, it's about Marinika Tepic, and everyone knows it, and I'm underlining her name and name, because today this woman is the striking poet of Dragan Đilas and the woman who stands out today, after thousands of times of repeated lies that have been broken by the truth, she continues with her packing or, what the people would say, by financing the affair, by trying to invent some kind of affair, and she presents herself as some alternative. I'm just wondering from this place, hypothetically, if it were to happen I don't know what kind of miracle, because their results are negligible by the latest research and this 3% reduction in censorship will be difficult to skip, what would happen if Marinika Tepic came to power, would she then submit this initiative again, and would Serbia take on itself something she didn't do and become a genocide people? Many of the things that today's representatives of one part of the opposition, and gathered together, miraculously, are again in some new Democratic Party or Democratic Party regime, in all ways trying to hit Alexander Vukic and his family. Somehow beneath the grains passed this information that Miroslav Aleksic, proven now, lied about the connection between Andrej Vukic and Aleksandr Vukic in the case of "Jovanjica". Did he make an apology somewhere, could you hear it somewhere? Yes, yes, I lied, I was wrong, I won't do it anymore? No, he continued to tell such lies. What concerns me especially, and I think that, Mr. Wolin, you will have what to say, is the fact that we as MPs here adopted the Code of Conduct. When we adopted this Codex, I debated the subject, because if we narrow down space to so many MPs from this place that we discuss everything that bothers the citizens of Serbia, what might be their concern, fear, if we have narrowed our space to represent the interests of those people who voted for us or those who didn't vote for us at all, then what is the role of the MP? What concerns me is the fact – while we stick to the Codex and always place an opinion on MPs, and even in the case of Marijan Rističević, procedures for the spoken word in parliament, we have a situation for individual representatives of the former regime, and now the presidents of some parties, such as Vuk Jeremic, to be directly threatened by citizens on social networks. So this is what's happening since this morning, on his official Twitter profile. Dear Minister, I've received several calls, messages and scribbles from these tweets, so I'm curious if any of the competent institutions, and I know that the prosecution must first of all be involved, feel and recognize the dangers and threats that this man has made? In a discussion with some users of this social network, Vuk Jeremic made one remark – I will not be in prison, I must disappoint you, and you will remain the reality in which you were born and you live, because you have not earned the better in your life. After that, he contacted a Twitter user by his name and last name, and told him – you're on the list, we won't forget you friend, remember what I said. He didn't end his attacks, his frustrations, his threats, he continued. Also, he called one user and said – when all this is over we'll download the bot servers, there won't be any identity hidden, including yours. You'll be washing toilets for the rest of your life. The highlight of his threats and monstrous statements on that social network is and – don't one day whine too much, see that we're going to meet you, answer you, and that brings you points, etc. Of every human waste like you, I remember you best. Honorable Minister Vulin, when such things are said by someone who bids today, tomorrow to be president, or whatever ambitions he has, there is a question of what ordinary citizens can expect and what will happen if, by some miracle or by some miracle, Vuk Jeremic comes into a position to decide something in our country. The citizens in the last election told us it was an impossible mission, but they rightly worry and ask what they can expect from someone when they publicly pose a threat like this. That's what I'm gonna end up with. Your work and the pressures you put up with both you and the government of Serbia and the members of the MUP are huge, but the job you do is primarily for honor and pride, because with the policy of President Aleksandr Vukic you and the Government of Serbia are doing what is best for our country, for our children and generations to come, and that is the basic policy and president of Alexander Vukic and SNS. You will always have allies in us, you will always have partners, because from a better and better place to live than our Serbia, we have neither, nor can we ever have. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3320	Thank you. The word has first Minister Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3321	From a man who treats his frustrations and complexes, you can expect that if he got power to start living then, he'd start to do what he threatened to do and what he did. You know, I'll remind you, most of you I've known almost all my life, we were all opposition, and when we were opposition we knew we had to fight for a better Serbia, for a different Serbia, but we fought for a Serbia where these things weren't possible. We didn't do it as an opposition. We didn't act like one. We didn't threaten Serbia that we would close it, that we would... We did not threaten ordinary people with whom we do not politically agree that one day, because of their attitude, they will serve as slaves, and we did not call them human waste. We're just the ones who are trying to pass a law by which every profile on the Internet is going to be public, signed by name and last name, that's exactly what we're up for, not hiding some bots, or whatever they're calling it. You know, it's about one man's hypocrisy. Do I need to remind you of those sad press conferences that Vuk Jeremic held when someone insulted his wife, or did he think that his wife was offended, so it was crying, and it was gathering, and what about the wives and families of all of you? What about the families of Serbian citizens who disagree with Vuk Jeremic? What about the family of Alexander Wolfie? When he was holding a press conference and crying in front of the cameras, saying that he was, how much does it hurt to do this to his family? He's suffering, he's carrying, he's fighting, but he shouldn't put up with it, he shouldn't carry it, he shouldn't fight it, he shouldn't. In a normal country, it's not a topic. We've been in Parliament for a long time, we've all been in politics together, it's never been this dirty, ever. But that's what people did. Our political life has been polluted by people like Jeremic, who can say something like that and write something like that. I'm sorry to hear that, but unfortunately, it's a fact in politics. That's why he won't go to the election. He knows it doesn't go to elections in the local community, let alone the republican congregation. Come out, say, my political program is that I'm going to arrest you all and lock you up, and everyone who doesn't think the same thing will be closed, so that's my political program. Say it. After all, we saw it, so they burned this Assembly, it wouldn't be our first time to see it, but I'm sure Serbia doesn't want to see the burning assembly anymore, it doesn't want to see those July riots, as it doesn't want to see October 5th, where, what, we're gonna burn another assembly. Uh, we're big and brave, we're strong, we're great, it's a political program, it's our platform, that it's the people's money that's being spent to renovate the assembly they set on fire. I don't believe that's what Serbia wants. But that's why there's the election, come out, gentlemen, to the election, that's your program, you hate all of us, you want to lock us up, arrest us, beat us up. Great, it's your political platform, come out, please, but just get out. Just go to the election, don't ask for it anymore. Thank you for noticing the police work. You know, when it comes to it, it's not an incident, it's a part of a mass fight, it's a crime, there's eight people arrested, it's immediately lit up, right, during that night we found out who the perpetrators are. The perpetrators were brought in during the morning, since they were from Shida, so they were not from Novi Sad, they had already gone, they had to be found there and it was immediately done. We know who's damaged. We've got help. It's good work in Novi Sad. The police in Novi Sad are doing well, the police are three months ago, in Backo Palanca we had a cheerleading shot, it was immediately lit up and it never happened again. That group was broken in Backo Palanca. Two months ago in Novi Sad, an attempted murder was prevented. Namely, already arrived a team from Belgrade that found, as they say, and the shtek-stan, had a weapon and was ready to liquidate the owner of a famous restaurant, a catering facility in Novi Sad. We shed light on it before the intention was carried out, or before the crime was planned. A few weeks ago, an attempt to extort from a football player named Vojvodina was lit up, and a man was arrested who tried to recalibrate a football player by making up some kind of debt, as is usually done. It's immediately lit up and done. Several events in Novi Sad were prevented before the last one happened in a village called Bukovac. So, you're doing a good job in Novi Sad. I want to thank not only the members of the Ministry of the Interior, but I also want to thank Mayor Vučević for the extraordinary co-operation, the exceptional sensitivity he shows to the police, helps us at every step, from material, so to arrange the rooms, always to come out to get the vehicles for the police, so to one really understanding of the weight of the work we do. The communication between the chiefs of police administration and the mayor of Novi Sad gives results and shows that it is better and feels more secure for citizens. Of course, Novi Sad is a big city, there are always those who think they should break the law, but if you have room to look at a little bit of news, go back and you'll see how large the lighting works are, but lightning lights. As it happens, that's how you find the unsub and that's how you punish yourself. Crime will always be, but it's only important to know that crime isn't worth it in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3322	I thank the minister. According to the application for a word, the word now has the deputy president of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children Mrs Sandra Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3323	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Orlic. I will also fully agree with the previous speaker, my dear colleague Mr. Mirkovic, and also with you, Mr. Vulin, because what citizens want, what citizens think, they certainly did say, not only about supporting SNS, supporting development and Serbia's progress. You also mentioned Novi Sad, and you mentioned Mr. Vukevic's mayor. The third term in office of mayor is indeed, if nothing else, an indication that Novi Sad is going in the right direction, that it is never moving faster and that it is headed by Mr. Vukevic Novi Sad that has an absolutely different perspective than it had in the past. We know and it doesn't take much to remember how the province was led by Mr. Pajtic, if I may call him a gentleman, since we here often hear different adjectives when it comes to members of the former regime. Then journalists rarely attack us that we may be in our own dictionary and speech a little more directly. But I don't know how else to call someone who's hungry, who's stolen, who's turned back the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, directly putting his hand in their pockets. How else can I call him a thief? I really don't know what the second term is, nor do I want to use it, nor do I want to be politically correct in this case, because to me, thieves are what they are - thieves. And thieves are the ones who steal on the track, and perhaps even less deserve to be called so by those who took from Serbia and its citizens, from the future of their children. Not only are we talking about 619 million, we're talking about much, much, much larger numbers that I'm sure we're not going to succeed, unfortunately, and our citizens of Serbia, never to the end to add. You're right, Minister, when you say that Serbia has made it clear that it does not want to be led by those who burned this building. We have had the opportunity to hear the will and to see the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly the latest research tells us absolutely in support of the fact that support for Serbian President Alexander Vukic and SNS is never greater. As for Mr. Mirkovic and what he is, and I apologize, I will return to the topic, chairing, please, just briefly, given that I have to rely on this discussion of previous speakers. Serbia has made it very clear and said it does not want those who are, you will forgive me in the dictionary, j* mother of Serbia. Now, I'm going to make an effort, so just citizens will understand, but this is transmitted by RTS and I'm going to try to get my own dictionary, regardless of what I'm going to tell some former leaders and politicians, but it's talking about them, it's not talking about me, it's not talking about me, it's not talking about this Assembly, it's not about MPs who are decent, young people sitting here and they're just telling the truth every day. That truth is ugly. When something is ugly, you use words that are appropriate. In this case – the seciks and thieves seem to me, even insufficient to say for all those whose name this adjective is attached to and to whom it applies. I welcome you to notice this debate on Twitter. The Wolf Jeremic does not matter to us in that sense, absolutely, not at all, it is important in which way a man who calls himself a politician, I will not agree that he is a politician, he is a criminal and a thief, actually refers to voters. Because, you know, on Twitter, I also support this initiative that we have to have our identity because things would look quite different, people, who, some people, write in Serbian language, see that somewhere in Instagram, they are defined from the cities of the Republic of Serbia, so they are 18 years old and on Twitter, they are voters, it should at least be clear to them that they should be adequately related to these people, that they answer their questions, and I have carefully reviewed the entire Twitter discussion and saw that there are really some important questions for the Republic of Serbia. Questions concerning the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You've been too polite, Mr. Mirkovic, and I fully understand and support you in that, but I won't be. I won't be, because I don't think Mr. Jeremic's goal was likely to read it here or possibly pass it on on to RTS, because I suppose that's not in his expensive shoes and suit he could say it on RTS because it wouldn't be appropriate, right, but, indeed, I will, for the sake of the truth, be able to call me again in any kind of name tomorrow, and it will mostly be on these Gilas media, very trendy, and I will risk so much, and indeed, for the sake of the truth, I will pass on to the citizens of Serbia the way that Mr. Jeremic was counting on Twitter with voters and citizens of the Republic of Serbia who asked him for some answers, so finally and the ideas that he promotes through his political party. But since he's completely senseless, that's how he calls it, and there's absolutely no hope on Twitter that he's shown, because that nervous detachment, I can't call it any other way, I think there's someone else that needs to be involved, really, it should be considered how this man deals with ordinary people. Minister, can we expect that tomorrow, when he goes out on the street, by some psychological assessment, he may begin in that way, in that nervous detachment, to deal with citizens, with free passersby, the question is. So let's go like this. What you missed, because you were decent, Mr. Mirkovic, is that with a certain Milic, actually tweet goes like this, so that I don't paraphrasise – militias, poor women, unable to make a living in a different way than moral prostitution – so much so that we can address women the way they've committed-sensively – those young people who, unlike your owners, don't buy diplomas and think with their heads, will be Serbian builders after I send you to where you belong, into a sewer. This evil will pass, just as everyone before it will, and then what you deserve will come upon you. You will not be punished for vengeance, but for evil never to happen again. There's one who's very disputable, again, and here, I'm asking to be excused for reading this, but again, I'm saying this is about who's the author of this tweet and it's Vuk Jeremic. It corresponds to a certain "Suzi Sheep", a "nik" or nickname on Twitter. He says to this "Suzi Sheep", or "Little Djoka 1", if we are to officially - sheep with small dicks living like parasites, Vukic pays them out of money that he unwittingly borrows abroad, which one day will have to bring back our children, so we will brutally show you. So this is a dictionary of a man who claims to lead Serbia tomorrow and claims to lead citizens of the Republic of Serbia. He's talking, if we're going to go deeper on the subject, about some money that's unwittingly borrowed abroad. He found out of all that he was talking about money, a man who proved part of Patrick Ho's international criminal group and who received some money for who he knew by what embassies. His advice was paid in thousands and thousands of euros. We don't have to talk any further about what kind of moral cartoon this is, because I think every next time I use an expression that's much more appropriate than what I've just called it. Let's get back to the subject. Mr. Minister, I believe that the agreements that have been ratified in the House of the National Assembly and those on the agenda today, as well as those that are only for this relatively short-term meeting, are evidence that Serbia is a friend and a reliable partner on all meridians and that the diplomatic capacity of Serbia is growing, and the interest of the world is that it is working with Serbia, which was not in the previous period, when the international reputation and diplomacy was being cared about by Vuk Jeremic, this one, who would... Serbia-Montenegro's mother, when Dragan Djilas, Borko Stefanovic, in her "Prad" shoes cared about international reputation, I believe that he should not particularly be told, after all that we've heard from Borko or Borislav Stefanovic, the only one who should not really be published on the issue of international respect for diplomacy, especially Kosovo and Metohija. So they don't care about citizens' interests today. Of course, they focus exclusively on the interest of their own pocket. And there's nothing new about it. They do not address themselves as representatives of citizens, they do not address us as representatives of parties that have certain ideologies, which would make Serbia an even better place to live, but in addition to what Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is doing for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I think that for life they could just sit, watch and learn. The nervousness in their ranks, especially today, is great. This also shows the continuation of the fight against crime, corruption and the mafia that the president of Serbia has launched, which you, ministers, have carried out with lightning actions, and I really congratulate you on this once again, and every time I see you here, I will really give you congratulations, because you have done something that many before you may not have done. As we know, in the National Assembly yesterday we debated, and tomorrow we will hope and adopt, as we will adopt these agreements, and the Law of Origin of Property, and from there it is likely that this nervousness is tycoon extremely large, because Gilas is not sure, not that he is not sure, but he knows that in no possible way, nor by magic, he can prove the origin of his property. We could think about that and the headlines that we could see in the media a while ago, that he and his brother Gojko had taken out of the country a certain million dollars. It's probably that the pots that got full everywhere, so something had to move a little bit to the other side, so we wouldn't be so obvious. The question is also how to hide 35 apartments, and I'm sure after the institutions knock on the door of those 35 apartments, and as far as we could see in the information these days and today, the NBS sent a certain inspection, probably having, not likely, but certainly having a good reason for that, precisely in "Multi". For this reason is also the stuttering and crying of Dragan Djilas and today, with all kinds of statements, the imbuing of any false affairs by Marinika Tepic, who today tried to construct another affair on her street performance. We're getting less and less understanding what she's actually trying to say. I think that the public is almost no longer interested in what she was going to say, and of all things, I think it is really important that Marinika Tepic explains to us in what capacity she appears at all these press conferences. It constructs, of course, the affair, we know of whose account, but we could deal with whether Marinika Tepic appears as "pi-ar" "Multicoma", an octopus where Dragan Gilas probably collects all the perfect and best window washers, and he is among them, as far as we can see, one of the most capable and best window washers that exist on the planet. I don't know that any other window washer, and if anyone else knows, let me correct me, has earned 619 million or so of his initials, and we've had a chance in some of the shows he served on his televisions to see that he tried to romanticize that biography, so he was honest, hardworking and hardworking, so he earned his first million. By the way, he said a lot of truth, more than he intended to say, and by the way, that his first fortune, he earned his first money right at the moment he was in power, which is in 2005, as he said. The first money, serious money, which is like capital and resources for the future octopus he made in "Multicom", just earned in 2005, and we will remind Dragan Gilas since 2004 is in power. So a lot of truth has been told in everything that Dragan Djilas has said to his talker on the show, and Marinika Tepic to explain to us whether she is employed in "Multicom", at Dragan Dilas, every time she shows up, when she attacks "Telecom", when she attacks state institutions, is she a "Telecoma" PR? We know that the mercenary is Dragan Gilas, the tycoon is Dragan Gilas. We know he's using mob methods. We know he's hanging out with mobsters. We know they have a photo album with all the mob heads from the past, and she and Dragan Gilas, and then just to tell us what quality it appears in, because certainly neither she nor Dragan Gilas represent anyone's interest except their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3324	Thank you. The People's MP Ivan Ribaq has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3325	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, as well as drug trafficking, arms smuggling, excise and all other goods on which big profits can be made, has become a remarkable, lucrative and criminal job since the start of the migrant crisis and trafficking and trafficking. Since organised crime groups have significantly faster contacts, co-operation and common interests than the official state authorities and for them there are no obstacles, neither in terms of border controls, nor in terms of language of different, different creeds or other specificities, all in order to achieve a one-off profit on human disaster, so this kind of agreement is necessary, in order to reduce the intentions of these criminal groups, and the fight against them is much stronger and more effective. The border with the Republic of Northern Macedonia is an extremely frequent area for the smuggling of different types of goods, because it is here so-called. The Balkan route for, which is known in the drug trade, but its channels are also used for human trafficking. Since I have spent my entire working life in a service dealing with smuggling, I am aware of the real danger of human trafficking and that it is no longer a national but regional and international problem, and in this sense it is essential that the Western Balkan countries co-operate in the fight against this type of crime. Human trafficking is one of the most flagrant and difficult forms of human rights violations, and therefore it is necessary for our country to co-operate with Northern Macedonia on prevention, on detection, identification of perpetrators, protection of victims, and in criminal and other proceedings. A large number of institutional authorities on both sides, which will be responsible for implementing the Agreement, such as the Ministry of Interior, such as the Ministry of Justice and the Republic of Public Prosecutor's Office and others under Article 3. The agreements are guaranteed that this co-operation will bear fruit. We should also point out that the most sensitive and vulnerable category in human trafficking is children. Therefore, it is particularly important that Article 9(4) of the Code states that: The agreement is precisely defined as the return procedure of the child, the victim, the country of origin, with a risk assessment, an expert check of parental competences and the provision of all necessary assistance to victims. What is important to say is that prevention, as in all matters, is a prerequisite for an effective fight against human trafficking and it is important to point out that Article 5 of this Agreement provides that the two countries work together to carry out information campaigns, especially when it comes to child trafficking and joint monitoring and analysis of new trends in the observed area in order to address these challenges more adequately. It is known that we live in times of many challenges that make border control more difficult, of which the migrant crisis and the coronary crisis are currently the most sensitive. Given the fact that the Republic of Serbia has allowed citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to enter our country without PSR tests, as well as that officially Skopje supported among the first to support President Vukic's initiative on "Mini Schengen", it is of strategic importance that both countries' competent authorities co-ordinated and joint efforts to fight every form of border and other types of crime. What is the essence of SNS policy, which was initially defined by President Aleksandar Vukic, is good and friendly relations with all countries in the world, with neighbours in particular. The Serbian hand of friendship and reconciliation has been given to all those who want it. Of course, unfortunately, there are also those who are inexplicable, with an indignation, who refuse, in order to achieve and protect their own interests, politically correctly wrapped in a gleaming coat of nationalism, such as those who were offered a donation when they needed it most in the form of a respirator, despite the fact that they first recognized Kosovo and Metohija's independence, despite their efforts to crush the Serbian language, shamed Desanka Maksimovic, Shantic or Ducic, or those who send their soldiers to celebrate the criminal action "Storm", to increase the fame of those who were expelled from the centuries-old hearths or despite drawing targets at the head of prominent Serbian intellectuals, academics and athletes. To illustrate the latest example of Boxing Champion Nikola Sekloć, who was now accused of being a national traitor, that he is an agent of the Serbian secret service and that he is ready to commit various crimes on behalf of Serbia against the Montenegrin people and the state only because he was publicly declared a member of the Serb people in Montenegro and made a contribution to the defence of Serb shrines, the sanctity of the Serbian Orthodox Church in that territory. Or those who don't want us for friends, relying on strength, not in numbers, but in strength, friends promise them something that neither by God's laws nor by earth's, nor by theirs, believing naively that they think well of them, and not knowing that they just want to realize their own geopolitical interests in that territory, with the eternal desire to never come to a lasting reconciliation in these places, because their role and importance would be lost, and their strength would dry. Despite those individuals who do not want our hand of friendship, which is very little, less and less, I would take advantage of the opportunity to highlight good neighbourly relations with the countries in the environment, especially with Bulgaria, with Hungary, with Romania and in particular I would point out, with Northern Macedonia, and we can see this also in what President Aleksandar Vukic recently handed to Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev 5,000 vaccines at the Tabanovca border crossing recently and which is only the first part of the official assistance that Skopje will receive from Belgrade. Of course, friendship is a reversible process. We must also welcome Prime Minister Zaev's decision to return to school the study of Serbian language and culture and to open a Serbian cultural centre in Skopje. Walter Winchell, an American journalist, said that best friends are the ones who approach you when the rest of the world leaves you. In a situation called the crown crisis, Serbia has only sent aid to Northern Macedonia in the form of vaccines, thus showing that although it is a small country, its soul and heart are as big as Siberia. We are as a country today a factor of peace and stability and a country that thanks to the wise and state policy of the president and his team is able to be a driving region of the Western Balkans, and this can be confirmed by the following facts. We donated as a country and two thousand vaccines to Montenegro that we have always cherished and we will cultivate a brotherly relationship. Despite the shy acceptance of our hand of friendship by the new government in Montenegro, despite being expelled by the ambassadors, despite the arrest and condemning of our citizens without any basis or having no basis to honor Serbia to interfere with the internal issues of Montenegro, we will never leave our people down as other peoples. It is understood that despite all obstacles, we will be working on vaccination. We continue to work on the vaccination of our population in Kosovo and Metohija, and that is the least we can do for our fellow citizens who have once again shown their strength, their unity in recent elections, and where the Serb list, the only true Serb representative in the area, won 10 scheduled mandates and I congratulate them from this opportunity. This unity and their strength obliges us to be unique in the next period in the protection of the national and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija, because it will be against us, as President Aleksandar Vukic said at the press conference yesterday, and the EU and US united forces, as well as Albin Kurti, as a radical Albanian right-wing man who predicates to be headed by the new government in Pristina. We have also provided 5,000 vaccines for the immunisation of our citizens, health workers in Republika Srpska, where we have again shown that we are a stable support for the Serbian people there. Also, President Vukic also offered assistance to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, just as he helped the city of Gorazd in the course of an epidemic of covids, which we showed, primarily him and then his entire team, that Serbia is a country that is facing the future, not the past. Dear gentlemen, as a state in the past few years, we have been significantly strengthened and become a respectable diplomatic player on the global political map, which is confirmed by the most difficult test of the root crisis. We can only regret that some of the proposition media or members of the so-called The opposition is making efforts to untrue news of vaccines, vaccinations and any other move that this government has made in breach of the Serbian government's reputation among citizens, while the world's largest and European media show that a small country can successfully deal with the world's biggest challenges. However, we believe that the wise Serbian people sees who is thinking well of him and who is doing it in his interest, especially because they do not see it through some foggy and imaginary promises, but through eclative measurable indicators, what are the improvement of travel and other infrastructures, the preservation and strengthening of the international position of the state, continued increases in wages and pensions and health care, safety and progress of our citizens in all fields. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3326	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3327	I would first like, Minister, to agree with what you said in your statement that Aleksandar Vukic is the only free leader in the Balkans. It is and it is because Aleksandar Vukic is the only free leader in the Balkans Serbia is the leader of the Balkans and therefore Serbia has these results and as regards the economy, where we are first in Europe, and as far as the reactivity is concerned, where we are first in Europe, and we are among the best in the world. Such a policy of the Republic of Serbia and such economic indicators and indicators as regards the fight against the crown of the virus show that Serbia is stable, strong, that the leader of the Balkans is desirable for the conclusion of an agreement with all states and that is why all our friends are handing out to us and that is why it is important for us to agree with the United States. Mexico, which is a true friend of Serbia and the Serb people, Mexico, which has said not unilateral recognition of Kosovo and only that argument is enough to build good relations with Mexico. As for the agreement between Serbia and the EU on actions carried out by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, I must say that this agreement is also in favour of our border being better protected. In protecting our borders, the MUP will participate even stronger and even better than it has ever been before. As Minister Vulin said in his presentation today, I liked his speech so much that I would have to quote it a few times, it was a time when NATO colonels and lower officers ruled Serbia and commanded both the military and the General Staff and the Ministry of Defence. The period ended in 2012. It's past the time when the vice president of the former regime's DOS government was arrested for spying. A time has passed when former Chief of Staff Zdravko Ponos had NATO mentors in his cabinet at the General Staff. It was a time when Vuk Jeremic and his associates led perhaps the worst, not perhaps, but the worst foreign policy in Serbia's history. That time has passed and that's the time behind us. Now it is time for the agreement, now it is time to make friends with both the EU and Russia, and China, and Mexico, and Northern Macedonia, and all other countries that respect Serbia and the Serbian people and all other citizens. As for the third agreement between Serbia and Northern Macedonia on preventing human trafficking, it is an extremely important agreement on crime prevention. As we know and as my colleague Ivan Ribać said, Balkan drug routes are unfortunately known, and drug routes, and as regards the route of arms trafficking and human trafficking. One of those routes, unfortunately, is going across northern Macedonia, across the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija and beyond Western Europe. Serbia is also in the way. Serbia has stepped in the way and trade of people and Serbia is doing well when it comes to the migrant crisis. Serbia knows that it distinguishes refugees and migrants, because both Serbia and the Serbian people and how well they know what refugees and migrants are. We Serbs, unfortunately, especially in the 20th century, and when it came to World War I and World War II, and the events of the 1990s, and unfortunately the beginning of this century, we had to be persecuted from our centuries of hearth. On this occasion, I would also like to commend again the film "Dara from Jasenovac" which clearly showed which pain and googogue our people passed. According to the International Institute in Jasenovac, more than 700,000 Serbs and about 100,000 Jews, Roma and other nations were killed. Of that number, 800,000 people, according to relevant international organisations, were unfortunately 110 thousand children. That's true. While we here in the Assembly are talking about the truth, while Aleksandar Vucic and his associates are successfully leading Serbia, as agreements are signed, while we have economic growth, while we are the first in Europe to re-vaccinate, we have on the other hand and a policy of lies. However, the policy of lies is slowly interrupted, which says the latest verdict to Miroslav Aleksic where he is proven to be a liar. The verdict of Miroslav Aleksic is proof that no political career can be built on lies. Alexic's lies at the expense of Alexander and Andrej Vukic have been proven. That's the policy of the former regime. This is a policy of lies, and I am very glad that Minister Vulin and my colleague Sandra Christmas have highlighted the importance of work and good governance of local self-government, such as Milos Vučevic, Mayor of Novi Sad, and what is important and good work of the New Sad police. In this case, it is clear that a local self-government, a city in co-operation with one of the most important institutions, in co-operation with the MUP, can produce, not only good results, as far as the lighting of serious crimes is concerned, but to prevent crimes from happening. This is an excellent indicator of how far we have progressed in Serbia. So, not only are we fighting the mob, not only are we lighting up the most serious crimes, but thanks to our police, we are preventing them from happening. That's the difference between us and that's the difference between the former regime that took part in those crimes. Of course, in the Day of Vote, my smallness, as well as my dear colleagues from the "Alexandar Vukic – for our children" parliamentary group, I will vote for these agreements and, of course, the Law on the Origin of Assets that we discussed yesterday, because both these agreements and this law and everything we discussed yesterday and today, which we will vote on tomorrow, confirm that the state of Serbia, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic is leading the policy that leads us to a safer and more stable future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3328	Thank you. National MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3329	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I'm always pleased when Minister Vulin is here with us, when we have a chance to talk to him about key issues concerning our country's security. Of course, it is very important that at the head of the ministry there is a man who is open, honest and patriotic, but even more important than someone who has the courage to oppose all those who are threatening Serbia's security, whether they come from abroad, whether they are criminal drug cartels who want to threaten the safety of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but of course who are trying to negatively affect our country's political and economic and any other rating. I am sure that in line with what has been done in the past few months, that this fight will give the right results, that we will manage to meet all these challenges in line with what is definitely a major challenge, which is to bring about a security situation, not only in the territory where the Republic of Serbia, the territory of the Western Balkans of Southeast Europe, is, but in the territory of Europe, and there are many challenges. Today we are talking, I will dedicate and focus on an agreement with Northern Macedonia on trade, on combating human trafficking and co-operation when it comes to human trafficking. It is very important that political relations with Northern Macedonia are correct, it is very important that we showed our colleagues, but of course to the Macedonian people that we have the will to have dialogue, to integrate. It is very important to say that Prime Minister Zaev has accepted the open-handed idea of President Aleksandr Vukic on Mini Schengen, so that as far as Northern Macedonia is concerned, we also have the opportunity to co-operate in the field of economy, in the field of investment, in the construction of infrastructure, but also in the field of security co-operation, of course. Given that through Northern Macedonia to Serbia, we have this great challenge that, as my colleagues had previously said, there are also routes in the area of drug trafficking, but routes in human trafficking. We are here together with the authorities in Northern Macedonia in 2015, in fact, I think we have endured and overcome one of the biggest security challenges that has hit this part of Europe surely in the past few decades, it has been a migrant crisis. In 2015, I will remind our citizens, it has been marked that more than a million migrants have passed through the territory of the Republic of Serbia and what is most significant that the Republic of Serbia, as in the crisis now, has shown that there is a very good crisis management, that there is a very good and visionary leadership that was then led by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic to present the job in fact without any major incident. And then the Republic of Serbia, then to our people, then to our Prime Minister, Vukic, they gave recognition to all of Washington, Brussels, Beijing, Moscow, all the centers of power all over the world, since then many of the other leaders of the more developed countries in Europe had resorted to closing their borders, that even some were building wires, to protect themselves with the wires of migrants coming from the Middle East, the Republic of Serbia and our people had shown and read and taught a serious lesson on humanity, in respect of human rights, to everyone in this world. In fact, in 2015, we were a star country, for the first time in decades, even in this America. You remember, Minister, at that time you served as a very important minister of labour, employment, social policy and martial arts when the Republic of Serbia was visited by the then President of the Committee for Arms in the US Senate, now late John McCain, with a 14-member delegation from Congress and Senate, was here and with you, with President Vukic, and gave a great recognition to the Republic of Serbia on what she did in terms of relations with migrants and the migrant crisis. I want to point out very much because it was in fact one of the waterworks why both the United States and Germany and many other European countries, why they changed their relationship with Serbia in some domain, because they saw that Serbia was a reliable partner, one reliable, stable country with stable leadership and leadership, which, of course, is able to cope with these situations, but it can be seen in particular on the ground that it respects what is called European values and the highest values that mankind has achieved in the 21st century, and that is to respect human life, to fight what is certainly tried from the entire route, starting there from Aleppo in Syria, Diabakir in Turkey, and through Greece and Northern Macedonia. Here in Serbia, it was impossible to trade people, it was prevented here, it was being helped by these people. Serbia has shown how mature it is. Serbia has shown how serious a country is and how far it can deal with these problems, of course. Of course, we support in SNS this kind of agreement. We want an even better and stronger dialogue with the authorities of Northern Macedonia on all issues and in all areas. I also think, since these are good things that will result in citizens, both the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the whole region, for some questions that we need to solve for each other. My colleague, Professor Marko Atlagic, spoke about the problem with the church and that is something that Macedonia and Serbia should solve. It is something to be solved with the SPC here in Belgrade, not to look for a mediator or to look for a solution in Istanbul or at any other address, but rather a solution here in Belgrade and Skopje, in a dialogue between two friendly and brotherly peoples. Of course, as other problems have been solved in the past, I think that this problem that is key and perhaps the only one that exists and that is an open issue between the two countries should, of course, be solved. It is also very important that co-operation with Northern Macedonia be stronger and stronger because of what is created in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, which unfortunately Serbia does not control in full capacity, and as regards, of course, the booming of drug trade, the booming of businesses with human trafficking, and what concerns us most here, our party worries the government, most of us in parliament, is terrorism. It is the fact that hundreds of people who have been and are currently in Syria's territory are returning to KIM territory to pose a threat not only to Serbs in KIM territory, but to the entire region. I believe that, together with the authorities in northern Macedonia, we should work to point to a permanent international community, to point out to the US and our European partners that they are co-workers of the individual commanders of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, located on KIM territory, are free to move, normally live there and pose a very large security threat to the entire region. I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they are one of the most prominent commanders in the Islamic state of Syria and Iraq from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, that it is Ladrim Muhageri, that it is still a few people who are taking high positions within the now-named Al-Qaeda, or Tahrir Al-Sham, who is acting on the territory of Aleppo, or the Syrian province of Idlip, and that we may think that it is far from us and that perhaps it cannot be spilled here, but today's global terrorism is being overrun by the speed of light, and we have to... Of course, there is a very, very large responsibility for both the MUP and our services, which should work well with services throughout the region to overcome these problems, of course. As my colleague Mrdic said earlier, to prevent them and there you definitely have one big support to deal with these problems, of course. What is an essential message for us here in parliament, complete and unreserved support for the fight against organised crime, the fight against corruption, zero tolerance for corruption and all those who want to rock this country, no matter what stations they belong to, no matter what social miles and levels they come from, and I believe that this is the greatest quality of this government, the greatest quality of what defines as the policy of our President Alexander Vukic and SNS to make one serious state, the state of law that we are fighting for, in which it will be able to work freely, free to trade, free to develop businesses, free to develop entrepreneurship and all the values that we are fighting for, and the achievement of the best possible level of well-being of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which we have shown in the previous period that we can, that we can build roads, that we can provide foreign investment, that we can provide domestic investment. Of course, we shouldn't lie to each other. We should tell the citizens the truth. To ensure all of this, we need good security, high-level security, we need stability, we need uncompromisingly what you've done with these clans, quick arrest, quick trial, quick conviction. No one in this country can threaten anyone, no citizen, and not speak to threaten and threaten the head of the president of the state, because of course, that is the goal of those who want to weaken Serbia. Both abroad and here, the target is Wolf. I, of course, fully support you and my SNS colleagues in this business to be uncompromising in order to show that in the future, not that you can act in that plan, but that you must not even think in that domain. Serbia is the most important of all, Serbia has a priority. Alexander Vukic's policy, economy, new jobs are a priority for this majority, for our party, and we will continue, of course, to fight with you in this fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3330	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olja Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3331	Thank you, Your Honor, President of the Assembly. Dear Ministers Vulin with an associate, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today ahead of us with a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating trafficking in human beings, which I will look forward to today's presentation. Namely, the agreement on the agenda today is just another in a series of agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia and another example in a series showing good co-operation between the two countries. The ministry of the interior of the Republic of Serbia with the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Northern Macedonia has a number of concluded agreements in the field of fighting organised crime, irregular migration, readmissions, driving permits, as well as in the area of internal control, helping to exchange a large number of information. The practice itself has proved to be good, and this also shows that about 1,300 operational information is exchanged annually on average. The agreement on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking is the result of a country's definition of procedures to improve systemic resources to combat this phenomenon. Here, above all, is about the system of prevention, identification of protection, co-operation in criminal and other proceedings, but also the aided voluntary return of victims, of course, with access based on the protection of human rights towards human trafficking victims. Good results can only be achieved by exchanging information, strengthening capacity and professional development in order to reduce their numbers over time by early detection, lighting and prevention of criminal offences in this area, and the consequences will be mitigated. Certainly a major contribution to this fight will also be to the effective processing of natural and legal persons, as well as to the legal protection of victims of human trafficking, taking into account the international obligations of states and acting in accordance with national legislation, the objectives and principles of international acts in the fight against human trafficking. The relationship between Serbia and northern Macedonia in every respect goes up the road and is based on the mutual friendship of the citizens of these two countries, which contributes to our good bilateral relations, but also contributes to the whole region, so there has been full agreement on the issue of resolving relations between Belgrade and Pristina through EU-sponsored dialogue. I believe that in the next period, it will continue to hold sessions of the two governments, which existed during mutual assistance during the pandemic. I am pleased to hear that we could help and that President Aleksandar Vukic has proved in difficult moments that we are not only the closest neighbours, but also best friends by donating over 4,000 doses of phaser vaccines to northern Macedonia. Someone's gonna say it's a small amount of vaccine. True, but bear in mind that this amount is sufficient to vaccinate almost all red-zone medical workers in this country, which represents the preservation of the health system with our help at times when it is and how burdened. We tried to get consent based on a contract Serbia has with the "Fajzer" so that we could donate the vaccines and then immediately made the transfer to save as many lives as possible. Thanks to this donation by our president, citizens of northern Macedonia have gone into immunisation before others in the region and this part of the world. I have to take this opportunity and thank all the doctors and medical workers who, almost a year later, still fight daily for the lives of all of us. Thanks to the reputation of President Aleksandr Vukic in the world and the commitment and great effort of health workers, we are the second country in Europe by the number of vaccines, and the first by number of re-vaccinated, or overall protected citizens. Serbia can boast that it can vaccinate two and a half million people without a problem, and another dose of vaccine will be obtained, so there are no causes for concern and that all citizens will be able to vaccinate. What we are seeking is also to provide health infrastructure so that we can produce at least one of the vaccines here in Serbia, which would be a huge success for our country. As the president noted, at the end of April or at the latest in early May, the drugs that proved effective in the fight against the coronary virus will arrive in Serbia. Serbia will be the third country in Europe after Germany and Sweden to have these medicines available. These are extremely expensive medicines and have proved to be effective in saving lives even more full and older people, which is most important to us, because human lives are the most important to us. In addition, I will remind you that despite all the aid measures it has given to businesses and citizens during this pandemic, Serbia has the lowest GDP decline in Europe in 2020 and in the year during the Kovid 19 pandemic, a bilateral exchange of Serbia with Northern Macedonia reached 860m euros. All of this is a clear indication that Serbia is leading a responsible policy led by Aleksandra Vukic. Desiring to continue friendship with Northern Macedonia and in the light of further progress on the plan of curbing all types of criminal activity. At the end of the ministry, I want to congratulate you on everything and how well-implemented actions. In line with all the proposals put forward, this and other proposals in the voting day, together with the parliamentary group, we will support Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3332	There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. Before a joint single search is concluded, they shall have the right to receive the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not exercised his right. I give my word to Djordju Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3333	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Mr. Minister, I think it is quite clear to you after today's debate and debate, it is our pleasure to have you back in Parliament. I think it is quite clear that, even after today's debate and after the debate that we have had on the legislative proposals that you have defended in this House during the previous period of time, it is clear that you have the full support of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in a serious and responsible business that you are doing, which is not a selective continuous fight against crime and corruption. When you have the support of parliament, and parliament is the voice of the people, and this parliament represents huge trust and support for the citizens of Serbia, then count on you and the government in a very important business having huge support for the citizens of Serbia. Also, during yesterday's day, Mr. Minister, and that was said, we discussed an important legislative proposal that should contribute to the realization of one of the six key principles and principles on the basis of which the Government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, which is a determined fight against crime and corruption. It's about a law concerning the origin of property. That's how we make it clear. I also said that during yesterday's debate, and I'm going to repeat it again, but I'm deliberately insisting on it. Whenever that report arrives, the European Commission is said to be -- there is no political will to fight corruption. Here, I say again – we confirm, there is a clear political will of the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue fighting a decisive, not selective, effective, continuous fight against crime and corruption. We also confirmed this during yesterday's discussion of an extremely important legislative proposal. It is a very important goal, for Serbian citizens to understand that goal. So, on the one hand, the government, as Professor Marinkovic, said, has a zero degree of tolerance, but on the other hand, this Parliament together with you representatives of the executive government, along with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in one synergy normatively and practically, is working decisively to realise this goal. I see that there is, Mr. Minister, a fear and that some critics appear. I find very interesting texts in the writings of certain media that someone has come to the property, whether I don't know how to clean a window or not. I don't argue with that, and I don't want to blame anyone in advance, and I don't want to judge anyone in advance, but it's a very interesting nervousness that was caused by the adoption of the law we talked about yesterday. What's with the anxiety and the criticism? I'll do it again. If the President of the Republic says he's ready to be the first subject to check, if each of us, and they say we should move, you know what they say -- we should start from above, probably think from the authorities. Well, if each of us says we have no problem, we'll start from above. Each of us is ready to be subject to verification. How does it get so nervous with these critics unless there's something we don't know or something that's covered up? What is it that bothers them? They are disturbed by a regulated and legal state in which the institutions of the system function, they are bothered by a state where everyone is equal to the law and no one is above the law, and it bothers them that no one is stronger than the state or is finally bothered by the fact that one policy that is primarily depicted in hate will finally be exposed, demystified, and that is the policy that was needed through a factory of affairs, a cheap political marketing to bring some kind of political point. At least someone was hoping to score a political point. If that's what they were hoping for and it's finally over and we're finally gonna put an end to it. They don't need to worry. There are absolutely no selective targets here. We're talking about the legal security of citizens here and we're talking about the equality of all citizens under the law. If someone acquired property irregularly, illegally, the state must sanction it and must know and that is the essence of the operation of that law we spoke of yesterday. I'm sorry, but I had a need to take advantage of your presence and say this. As far as the agreements we are talking about today, of course the great importance and importance of the agreement, it is about co-operation in the field of combat, it has already been about human trafficking, border and coast guard to cultural and sport co-operation. Don't mind, but I'll start with one agreement first, and that's the deal with Mexico, and I'll tell you why I'm starting with this agreement first. The agreement with Mexico, which concerns co-operation in the fields of education, culture and sports, was signed in Belgrade in June 2020. The agreement was signed by the then foreign minister, today the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ivica Dacic. The diplomatic relations of these two countries were established as early as 1946, and this year we mark 75 years of bilateral relations and I believe that the two countries' relations will move along the upward path in the future. There are no open issues between the two countries, but a long tradition of friendly relations and close attitudes in all areas of co-operation. It's Mexico, which is why I purposely came specifically from this agreement, because Mexico is one of the states that have not recognised independence so-called. self-proclaimed Kosovo states, but Mexico also voted against Kosovo's admission to UNESCO. We should respect and greet and cultivate relations with these countries. If you remember, before a certain period of time, we talked about Lesota and we talked about an agreement with Lesota. At that time, we said that co-operation was very important, in the meantime, the Lesota government was changed, and we said that it was important for us to continue bilateral co-operation through these agreements to establish good relations and continue good bilateral relations with the new current power in Lesota. And with every state that has confessed, with each of the 18 auctions that has recognised Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. Serbia and Mexico share their stance on the integrity of international law. They have exceptional political relations and Serbia is expressing great gratitude for this support for maintaining the territorial sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Every step in co-operation with countries that have not recognised or withdrawn Kosovo's recognition is very important and important that it shows that Serbia is open to co-operation in all areas and takes care of its foreign policy. The lack of a strong and economically stable Serbia, the fact that Serbia does not respond to someone who thinks for himself and who has a position, that Serbia does not respond to someone who leads an independent foreign policy that is in the best interest of our citizens and that it does not want to spoil relations with traditionally friendly states, is not our problem. It is important that the Government and this National Assembly work in the best interests of our citizens. The signing of this agreement will contribute to Serbia and Mexico's co-operation in the fields of education, culture and sports, and will allow the conclusion of periodic co-operation programmes to further strengthen bilateral relations. Mexico is, therefore, a large country, I think over 120 million people, the first tourist destination in Latin America, as far as I know. It is very important that we cultivate good relations in parliamentary, government, but it is very important that we cultivate good relations on the university plan as well. Serbia is a market that attracts the growing attention of Mexican entrepreneurs, I don't know how well it is known to Serbian citizens, but we will continue to work on attracting investment and trade. One of the largest foreign companies in Serbia is owned precisely by an investor from Mexico, and we hope new companies are coming to Serbia, because Serbia is today an attractive investment destination. The agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, colleagues said a lot, I don't know what I could add, co-operation in the area against human trafficking, was signed in 2019. Recently in this house we also talked about an agreement with Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the area of the fight against migrant smuggling. Namely, there is a significant difference between the concepts of human trafficking and migrant smuggling. In the smuggling of migrants there is a consent of a smuggler, the target of smugglers is to earn, earn money by illegally transferring this person across the international border. There is no victim's consent in human trafficking, and that is an important difference, but these actions are accomplished by torture, violence, coercion, threats, fraud and so forth. Human trafficking is a major problem in the Western Balkans region, where it appeared in the 1980s. The then-SFRJ in the region stood out according to a higher economic standard, and Serbia in most cases was the ultimate destination of victims, unfortunately, human trafficking. The situation changed in the 1990s due to the collapse of the country, numerous wars, the arrival of foreign military troops, due to the favourable geographical position of the territory, Serbia was suitable for transiting victims, unfortunately, from Moldova, Russia, Bulgaria, from where victims went further to Spain, France or to the Middle East countries. Because of the search for foreign affairs, victims often accepted business offers, which is worst, these offers often came from those close to the environment. Today, this problem is even bigger and harder because of growing demand and offers via the Internet. There is no profile, i.e. the characteristics of the victims of human trafficking, although most often they are persons from marginalised socio-economic environment. Human trafficking is an undeniable birth problem. Even 80% of the perpetrators are male, while in the case of victims, 80% are women and girls most often exposed to sexual exploitation. It is of great importance that it is constantly working to prevent and combat the problem of human trafficking, both national and regional, international. Accordingly, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a strategy to prevent human trafficking, especially women and children, and protect victims from 2017 to 2022. What I also want to point out, and my colleagues have talked about it, Mr. Minister, the SPS parliamentary group wants, for who knows which time, to say clearly that Serbia today, no matter what they say, is a symbol of new values in the region, that Serbia today is a factor of stability in the region, that the clear goals Serbia wants to achieve when it comes to countries in the region, which is peace, prosperity, good neighbourly relations, co-operation. Serbia has a principled stance, Serbia does not interfere with the internal affairs of other countries, but it would be good if other countries had such a principled attitude towards Serbia. Serbia has shown that it is a symbol of new values, that it is friendly, solid, in the most difficult moments and selflessly helps its neighbours to obtain the necessary vaccines for the immunisation of the population and health workers, a reminder of 4.680 doses of Faiser vaccine. As regards very briefly, the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on actions conducted by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency in Serbia, concluded in 2019. Our country's co-operation and these European agencies began in 2009. An agreement that did not have a legally binding nature, but has since that day set up a framework for co-operation between the border police and the Republic of Serbia and Frontex on the basis of which they have conducted different activities. The adoption of the European Border and Coast Guard Regulation in 2016 opened legal assumptions for deepening Frontex's co-operation with Western Balkan countries, including Serbia. These joint activities focus primarily on addressing the problem of illegal migration, their flows, cross-border crime, and include, inter alia, operational and technical assistance at borders. Today, these problems are recognised as one of the biggest and most significant both at regional and international level and internationally. This cooperation is of great importance in terms of more efficient, faster, easier to address these crises and these problems. Finally, I would point to the fact that the confirmation of the Agreement with Macedonia and Frontex is very important in the common struggle of states, regions, as well as the entire old continent against migrant smuggling and in general with the migrant crisis that has been going on for several years and that will take quite a while and the next time period. As my esteemed colleagues said in the opening part, the morning part of today's session, of course the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposed agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3334	Thank you. In the end, I give my word to Minister Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3335	Dear President, President-in-Office of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, friends and comrades, I would like to thank you for your fruitful, patient discussion, a discussion in which there was anything to be heard and learned, a discussion that showed how parliamentary life should look in Serbia and what it looks like, responsible, serious people devoted to their task. You know, if someone else had such a parliamentary majority, I'm not sure that he would be so serious about both parliament and his business. You have shown that there are no prime numbers in parliament, but that there are political thinkers, who have something to say about every topic that comes before the MPs, you have shown that you have been chosen by law. I want to thank you for the seriousness that you have devoted to the proposals that the government has put before you. I look forward to your support, and I am truly encouraged by how much all our MPs understand the problems facing the government, which our country is dealing with, and what you are giving us, so much support, without which nothing in this country would be possible. I am honored to have the privilege and privilege of spending this day with people who care so much and care about our only mother Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-24-0.u3336	Thank you. I thank you, because he says so, and I like to say the same to another Alexander, Minister of the Interior, for today's presence and exposure. I also thank him for these words he said he was pleased to participate, and I want all ministers to accept it that way and understand it, not as some simple obligation, or a heavy commitment to spend the whole day here with us, but as part of our joint work and a joint team on the common road we're on. This concludes, and I officially conclude a joint, unique search on the drafts of the law in points one to six of the agenda. We'll continue at 10.00 tomorrow. As we said, we continue with the remaining seventh item of the agenda and the first item of the agenda, the discussion in particular. It is in the afternoon, so to speak, i.e. by 4:00 p.m., and 16-19 p.m. time is scheduled, as the last Thursday of the month is to ask parliamentary questions to the Serbian government. After that, after 19.00 hours, or exactly at 19.00 hours, depending on the completion of the question will be the day for the vote and that will end this session. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 134 MPs present in the hall at this time, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 280. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The People's Messenger Samir Tandir has a word.
