ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11497	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 12th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the meetings are attended by 95 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that at this point in the hall there are 100 MPs, that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions from items 4 to 9 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the sittings of Aleksandar Pantic and Jacques Pavlovic, election members of the High Council of Judges. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Articles 192, paragraphs 3 and 201, and in accordance with Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure, I open a joint uniform search on: a motion for a decision on the selection of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Supreme Council of the Court of Justice from the Court of Justice, a proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the Public Prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plan, a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Administrative Court, a proposal for a decision on the termination of the functions of two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the National Bank of Serbia. I'm asking the Proposer's representative if he wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11498	Thank you, Chairman. Dear President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, you are presented with proposals for two decisions of the High Council of the judiciary, one is a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office and the second is a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the High Council of the Court of Justice from the order of the judges of the Court of Appeals. On the basis of Article 47. The Law on Judges, the High Council of the judiciary, has been in "Official Messenger 17/21", since 26 February 2021, announced the choice of judges for the Basic Court in Bačka Palanca. In "Official Messenger No. 53/21" of 28 May 2021, announced the choice of judges for the Administrative Court, in "Official Messenger No. 58/21, of 9 June 2021, announced the choice of judges for the Administrative Court, the Court of First Instance in Leban, the Court of First Instance in Petrovac at Mlava, the Criminal Court in Lazarevec, the Criminal Court in Negotin, the Criminal Court in Ruma and the Criminal Court in Sombor and the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia No. 87/21" since 10 September 2021, announced the election of judges for the Court of Justice in the Great Plan, the Court of First Instance in Prepolje and the Court of Justice in Ivanjica. So here we have a motion for a judge's decision, which is the first time they've been elected to the judge's office by several ads from the High Council of Justice. And here we have two ads from the High Council of the Court of Justice. We've united, combined those ads. So, one was declared one court seat, the other was an ad for five judges, a total of six. We've united it. Since we have elected three judges to permanent judicial office for the administrative court, you have before you the motion for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected for the administrative court's office. So there are only three candidates, because in three places, three advertising posts are already filled with judges who are already in permanent judicial office. The High Council of the Court shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Judges, the Rules on the Programme and the way in which the examinations are to be assessed, assessing the expertise and competence of the candidates for the judge and the Regulation on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise and competence and dignity for the selection of judges, carry out a complete selection procedure. So, a board of the High Council of the Judiciary has been formed, so it's an educated commission. The Commission has carried out a verification of the applicant’s applications for those courts and established their timelyness, permit and completeness. On October 4th 2021, an examination was conducted for candidates for judges who were first elected, who applied for the election of judges at the Lazarevec Criminal Court in Negotin, the Ruma Criminal Court and the Sombor Criminal Court. On 7 October 2021, a test was conducted for judges who applied for the election of judges in the Administrative Court. On the 11th of October 2021, an exam was conducted for judges who were first elected for the General Court in Bačka Palanca and on 25 October 2021, an examination was conducted for the candidate for judges who were first elected for the General Court in Leban and the basic court in Petrovac na Mlava. The exam, as you know, consists of written text and written assignment. The written text serves to determine the expertise of the candidates who have submitted the application and the written task of their capacity to perform the judicial function, because it is practical work, for the sake of the judge's decision. So, to see if these candidates are qualified to serve as judges. The assessment of the examinations is a basic criterion when proposing a candidate, i.e. setting out the order of candidates. As regards users of initial training at the Judicial Academy for them is taken as a criterion of expertise and training, a final assessment shall be taken in initial training at the Judicial Academy. After the examination, the commission held talks with candidates who applied for judges and then complete material was delivered to the High Judicial Council. In addition to the Commission's report, the High Council of the Court also obtained an assessment of the work for candidates coming from the order of judicial assistants, and also of the data and opinions of competence, expertise, dignity of candidates from the authorities and organisations in which the candidate worked in the legal profession, and for the candidates coming from the courts an opinion of a general session of all courts, the court from which the candidate starts and a session of all judges of the Court of Justice of the Greater Court is held in relation to the court in which the candidate is acting. Following a complete procedure, the VSS proposed the following candidates to be elected to the judicial office. These are candidates, for the Administrative Court are candidates: Mirjana Popovic, adviser to the Supreme Cassation Court, Tatjana Popara, adviser to the Administrative Court, Katarina Petric Ilic, adviser to the Administrative Court. As we see here with the Administrative Court, since the court of the Republic rank, besides the judges who have already been elected, judges who are in permanent judicial office, the proposed candidates are advisors in the courts of the highest rank, meaning, in the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Administrative Court. For the Basic Court in Bačka Palanca, the proposed candidates are Jelena Savic, the beneficiary of the initial training at the Judicial Academy, Milica Dubljević, the user of initial training at the Judiciary Academy and Milena Balletić, a judicial assistant at the Main Court in Novi Sad. For the Main Court in Velika Plana are proposed: Dusan Milosevic, user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, Goran Lalić, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Velika Plana, Svetlana Jović, Judge at the Primary Court in Požarevec, Tamara Radovanović, Judge at the Main Court in Velika Plana, Jelena Vukković, Judge at the Main Court in Velika Plana. For the Court of Justice of the Basic Court in Prijepolje are proposed: Majda Iglica, Deputy Public Prosecutor for the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Prijepolje, Tijana Konatar Špica, lawyer, registered in the register of attorneys of the Barcak Bar, Marija Vizljina, user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, Jana Pejović, municipal lawyer of the municipality of Prepolje. The decision on the motion for a candidate for Ivanjic is proposed by Aleksandra Filipovic, a judicial assistant at the First Basic Court in Belgrade. For the basic court in Petrovac on Mlavi, the proposal is: Dragan Jokanovic, judicial assistant at the basic court in Petrovac, Mlava and Jelena Kukolj, prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec. Sasa Brankovic, a judge's assistant at the primary court in Leban and Silvana Stankovic, were proposed for the main court in Leskovec. For the Lazarevec Criminal Court, the proposal is: Dejan Kastratovic, a judicial assistant at the Criminal Court in Valjevo and Sanja Jovanovic, a judicial assistant at the Criminal Court in Valjevo. For the Ruma Criminal Court, the proposal is by Milica Beljin, the beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, for the Sombor Criminal Court, Nebojsa Vasiljevic, the user of initial training at the Judicial Academy and for the Criminal Court in Negotina Valentina Rajačić Jovanovic, secretary of Negotin High School Negotin. These are, in the opinion of the VSS, the best candidates of those who have applied. They all meet the conditions. A short biography of all candidates is in your materials, so I will not talk about the biography of the proposed candidates. Only the data prescribed by the Judges' Law are contained in the biography as criteria for selecting judges. That's what you have in the materials, so you're familiar with that data. In order not to report again, I will now explain the motion for a decision to elect a member of the VSS from the Court of Appeals. So that's the candidate who's gonna replace me with the VSS. Since I am also a member of the VSS of the Court of Appeals, I will now explain the motion for a decision. In fact, the term of office, as you know, of the members of the VSS, takes five years. I am now running out of mandate in a few months, the process is being launched six months before the end of the mandate of one of the members of the VSS, and respectively, the president of the VSS on 31 August 2011, President of the VSS, made a decision on the launch of the process of proposing a member of the VSS from the order of judges of the Court of Appeals. The election for the VSS member was held on November 2nd, 2021, so these are the elections that all judges of the Court of Appeals vote on, so all judges of four appeals, were present at the OSCE's mission in Serbia. The elections went completely regular, there was no single objection to the commission on the regularity and course of elections, and after the elections, there were two candidates, Vesna Sladojevic, judge of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad and Gordan Veljovic, judge of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac. After the elections and the numbered votes, Vesna Sladojevic received 97 votes, while Gordana Veljovic received 101 votes, but the victory was, therefore, Gordana Veljovic received a number of votes. At a meeting of the VSS held on 18 November 2021, the VSS decided that Gordan Veljovic, judge of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, proposed to be an election member of the VSS from the order of judges of the Court of Appeals. You are facing a proposal from the VSS to elect Gordana Veljovic, judge of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, as a member of the VSS from the Court of Appeals. You don't have a biography here, it's not necessarily prescribed by law, but I'll just tell you a few words about Gordana Veljovic, who is proposed for an election member of the VSS. Gordana Veljovic was born in 1965 in Topoli. The Faculty of Law graduated in Kragujevac in 1995, and immediately began her career in court, as a judicial intern. For the municipal court judge in Kragujevac, she was elected in 1999, she acted in civil matter. Since 2010, the judge of the Grand Court in Kragujevac, and then acted in criminal matter, and since 2017, the judge of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, and acted in civil matter. So she's been doing both criminal and civil matter and her entire career and her entire career, spent her entire working life in court. In addition, she was also a member of the Disciplinary Commission of the VSS, in its mandate from 2016 to 2020, so she was also familiar with the work at the VSS. Otherwise, the mother is four children, speaks Russian and French, and she also has basic knowledge from English. We believe that all the proposed candidates are absolutely and worthy and qualified and deserve to be elected to the functions for which they are proposed. I'd like to finish this, and I'd just like to invite you to support the VSS proposal in the voting day and vote for the proposed candidates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11499	Thank you. Let's move on. The word has Djordje Dabic, on behalf of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11500	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the VSS, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, at a session held yesterday, supported all proposals on the agenda, and I would like to congratulate this occasion on all the judges who will be elected in the voting day, here at the plenary session of the National Assembly, with a desire to carry out their work responsibly and committed. This is certainly one of the last, if not the last choice of judges in this way in the National Assembly, we have since January if the referendum is successfully completed, changed the way the judges are elected, and it will be more the jurisdiction of the VSS, since those dates, the start of constitutional changes, when they start to apply, it will no longer be the authority of the National Assembly, and we have conducted a serious debate about it, I would say for many years, because since 2013, we have been obliged to comply with this part of the choice of judges, with European recommendations, with the Venice Commission, and this is a success of this National Assembly meeting and implemented. We've prepared constitutional amendments. We are going to a referendum on January 16th, when we will make a serious reform of our judiciary and a way for judges to no longer be elected in the National Assembly. We must say that, with the help of our lawyers here and the general public that we have included in the whole process, we have found one solution that will once again retain one role of the National Assembly, at least in an indirect way, in a way that we from the National Assembly will have the opportunity to choose members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and thus retain some sovereignty, i.e., the people will continue through the National Assembly to have an impact on the choice of judges, I say, in an indirect manner. Not directly in the way that was now the case, but in one indirect way. It seems to me to be an optimal solution supported by the Venice Commission and thus we come into a situation to open up, or close another cluster. This used to be Chapter 23, when we were often honored from the European Union that we had to change exactly what we were talking about, the way we choose judges in the National Assembly. This process, I say, was and how transparent, inclusive, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has held, I think, 11 working meetings. All over Serbia, they went and talked in many places. Prominent lawyers, university professors gave their part and found an optimal solution to be made in front of citizens on January 16th. I think we need to talk more in public about the referendum itself. It is not enough to hear exactly what the subject of this referendum is, and it gives the opportunity to have a variety of speculations, abuses, and, we have heard many times already, the truths that are being placed in the public that this referendum was actually made in order to, I don't know, throw out the preamble of the Constitution, that is, part concerning Kosovo and Metohija. We kept saying here and there in other places that it wasn't the subject, not to vote on preamble, it certainly remains part of our Constitution. We are voting here on the way the judges are elected but, I say, precisely because this is not sufficiently public, it seems to me that both the ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia should campaign a bigger campaign, given that the referendum is within a month, that citizens should be presented with exactly what we need to say. Because only we in the National Assembly, as far as I can tell, are talking about these constitutional reforms. So we need to explain to the citizens how important it is because of our further path to the EU to make these changes come to the agenda, to declare that the referendum is successful, because that way we manage to continue to stay on that European path, to take another big step towards that European agenda where we are currently, when we look back, here these previous days, several clusters have been opened. So it is time to finally wrap up this whole process and really become a full member state of the European Union. I hope that the referendum will certainly be successful and that in this way we will show that we are a responsible society which, above all, cares for its national interests. We have managed to integrate this part in these constitutional amendments on how we will continue as the National Assembly to have influence in the way the judges choose, I say in an indirect manner, through the delegation of people to the High Council of the judiciary, but, of course, we are fulfilling everything that the EU, the European Commission, the Venice Commission has asked us to do in this EU accession process. What is certainly important to mention is that this process was done in one transparent, good and responsible way, all contrary to what the former government did in 2009. In 2009, we'll remind ourselves, a thousand judges and prosecutors overnight ended up on the street without any explanation. The whole European public, the professional public was horrified by the way that the state, the regime at the time, dealt with judges and prosecutors. We're showing today that we're not like the exes who, without any reason, were replaced by judges. We here give even greater independence, even greater legitimacy to the judges themselves. We are trying, therefore, to find the most optimal solutions and all that we have agreed here will be in front of the citizens on January 16th, and I am sure that the citizens will support it at the referendum that will be before us. The way we continue to choose judges we have explained and that is all and how it was done in one transparent, good and responsible way. Just to prevent possible abuses and to influence the fact that any abuses of our public are no longer taking place, we often hear, I say, still a matter of preamble. We hear the question that the referendum is being damaged for Rio Tint. This is exactly what we need to talk about and explain to citizens how important the referendum we are going to go to on 16 January, that it has nothing to do with Kosovo and Metohija. We don't change the preamble, I say again. We don't change any parts about bringing Rio Tint to Serbia. This is where the biggest machinations and public abuses have been heard in the last few days. We've seen that the state has met all the demands of the protest. We saw that even last Saturday, despite everything we've done one, I'm going to say, a handful of people, very irresponsible politicians gathered around Gilas, that failed tycoon who tried to make mini power plants quiet and similar. They went out to the streets, blocked our streets, tried to challenge the incidents again. I say once again, all of this that we're talking about today must be repeated to keep the citizens aware of why we're going to the referendum, that it has nothing to do with Kosovo, or Rio Tint, and it should be explained to the citizens that they would not be mistaken, that they would not be disaved, that they would not be on the street, because they were brought by the people who had all this and cooked up, who brought Rio Tinto and today they invite you to protest. Today they invite you to block our traffic. Therefore, there is a great responsibility both at the National Assembly and on all members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to talk about these issues in a transparent and responsible manner so that citizens are not mistaken for some failed politician and tycoons taking them out onto the street and destroying their country. Once again, in the voting day, we will support all the points that are on the agenda, and that is important because in this way we are fulfilling everything that we today in the European agenda are as a state and how we are prepared to join the European Union and in this way we are making another big step towards this full membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11501	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Tomic, as a proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11502	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Pantic, fellow MPs, at today's session, we have a agenda point, which is – a proposal for a selection of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. The session of the Committee on Finance, Budget and Control of Public Resources was held on November 25th, 2021, on the basis of a proposal from parliamentary groups to elect Mr Stojan Stamenkovic, who, otherwise, holds this post in the previous assembly. What we want to say in general, and I think that all the members in their discussion today will be apostrophe, is that it is a great pleasure for us to have such a man first Serbia, the second that the National Bank of Serbia really holds one continuity of work when it comes to selecting members of the Board of Governors, precisely because at the most difficult times when Serbia was to make very important decisions in co-operation with both the Serbian government and the president of the state outside the National Bank of Serbia, were indeed people of the greatest integrity and greatest experience it has. Mr. Stojan Stamenkovic is an extremely experienced economist, who has been following up almost 70 years at all, in terms of not only the area of the National Bank of Serbia, but in general macroeconomic analysis and macroeconomic projections in terms of finance, not only Serbia, but in those times and old Yugoslavia. It was an extraordinary honor for us to talk to such a man because we had a lot to learn, because apparently Serbia has been in historical times many times in the opportunity to make very important decisions that are in fact decisions for the future of our children. When we talk about how important it is that there are people of integrity who will make such decisions and advise, at the end of the day, the most institutions in this country on this subject, then we should say that what we had the opportunity to hear from him, which is that for the first time now, the IMF no longer invites Mr Stamenkovic to participate and attend the negotiations of Serbia with the IMF, is in fact an indication, too, that Serbia is going a good course, that for the first time now we have a governor who is really in close co-operation with both the Serbian government and the president of the state, that all decisions made are made on the basis of the consensus of all political factors in this country, but also a consensus with international institutions, because we have established this relationship of trust between international institutions when it comes from finance and the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. It was for us, in fact, an indication that the problems we are talking about today and that somewhere we felt would happen at this time when we spoke on November 25th we received answers from Mr. Stamenkovic on the Committee. I'll tell you before I say anything we've talked about, and when it comes to inflation, when it comes to a macroeconomic indicator in the future and at the time of this crisis, and what the pandemic has made, and what the energy crisis has done, before that we have had the opportunity to hear Mr. Stamenkovic's team taking part, which is the Board of Governors, who together with the Governor of the National Bank makes certain decisions is effective, quality, professional and that what is seen by this member of the council, is that he does not doubt that in the times to come, which are the crisis that will always be the most responsible and best decisions. This is what is most important to us, that Serbia cannot be a loser, that there is such a basis that shows that all decisions we make are consensual and that all decisions we make are in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the interests of the state of Serbia and that they are of interest to our future. What I want to tell you is that since 2012 Mr. Stamenkovic has participated in the adoption of various acts that speak, in general, of analysis, research and scenarios of possible crises, but what is important is that in his works in which one of the most significant ones has participated since the 1970s, it is that in a group of economists who worked together with USAID, FREN and MAT, he said there was a post-crisis model of economic growth and development in Serbia from 2011 to 2020. So he actively participated as a member of the Board of Governors right in raising Serbia's economy from the moment Serbia fell to the lowest branches, when in 2012, Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS with their coalition partners took responsibility for the rescue of Serbia's economic situation, in which it fell under the irresponsible policies of all of the previous governments and presidents who in some way in debt to this country in an extremely irresponsible way and where one long-term exit plan was to be made. What we are talking about today last year, when a new crisis came and a new momentum showed that neither developed economic states, such as EU members are barely dealing with problems, Serbia remained on their feet and kept all the results it had. This also shows high growth rates with which Serbia will come out this 2021 with the year of post-pandemic Kovid 19, but also shows with its decisions now that we have an energy crisis. We had the opportunity to see the NBS results at the end of November which showed that Serbia came out with, thanks to NBS, 16.45 billion euros to larger foreign reserves, which shows that, when we talk about an increase in foreign reserves that existed at the end of 2020, it was 13.5 billion euros based on a report submitted by the NBS to the Finance Committee this year. Gold reserves are at 37 tonnes level. We had the opportunity to hear this yesterday at an open session of the government of the Republic of Serbia, where President Aleksandar Vukic and Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic attended. What we had a chance to hear yesterday, as you can see when major crises are coming, and it's energy, so the energy and finance of a country are closely linked. When you have a certain kind of crisis, you have to react without delay, you have to balance the network itself, the power grid of Serbia, to provide balance for the electricity industry itself to provide all citizens with electricity and then you have to react on the capital market, you also have to as NBS to prepare money for the purchase of electricity as much as you lack to balance. Yesterday, we had the opportunity to hear Mrs Tabakovic say that 750m euros are ready to buy electricity to ensure this balance and that all consumers will receive electricity as soon as possible in the midst of this snow that fell on Sunday and to establish normal electricity production. That's what the government's task is to take care of its citizens, that whenever there are certain problems and challenges, and now it's energy, we have an increase in inflation rates, that the state reacts. We heard on Mrs Tabakovic's Finance Committee that she said, we were worried about inflation itself and we asked Mr Stamenkovic that question. What the state has to do at certain times, is to reduce inflation or stop progress, you have to bring in certain measures, the stock reserves have to react, a particular paper market of value to react in order to stop such problems when it comes to these challenges and, most importantly, the indicator of all this is the end of the year. At the end of the year, we will have an exact picture of how much we were at what level of growth we have in business activities, how much inflation was average when we talk about the whole 2021, but what's encouraging, I think that's the results, yesterday we also saw Mr. Sinisha Mali, that we don't have to worry because Serbia has finances, that we'll have on the accounts when it comes to the Republic of Serbia enough money to finance and pay and pensions and everything that's the plan for 2022 the budget, that we don't have to worry about and when it comes to securities markets of value, that the state doesn't have to react in January and February of the month, and that's what's in fact an indication that both the National Bank and the Government of Serbia and the country when it comes in real timely response to political decisions, and in order to protect all those target groups that in the country that it can cause certain disturbances when it is in terms of finance and the economy and the economy, and the economy that it really shows that it's the economic stability of the economy and the economy, and the economy of the economy. It is important that an international organisation, such as Bloomberg, simply says that the National Bank with its projections, when it was 2021, really showed a high degree of responsibility and that, in the end, credit ratings do not fall, but just go up. So they're always somewhere in front of B plus, which is talking about pre-investment that highest rating A, and that's what's important to us. The price of gas, as you have seen, has therefore been given to Serbia for maintaining good political bilateral relations with the Russian Federation and this is indeed the relationship between the two presidents, Alexander Vukic and Mr Vladimir Putin, showed that when it is difficult to help and should show ultimate responsibility. Obviously this winter is critical for everyone and it will show... And yesterday you had the opportunity to hear that the most developed countries of Europe, such as Germany, with a change in their policy towards certain strategic projects, such as "North Stream 2", will cost a lot because it does not release gas through "North Stream 2" almost Germany will cost a spotty monthly about 60 billion euros, and that is an indicator when you're making certain political decisions that can not take into account all the analyses that professional people like Mr Stamenkovic are doing, and they can simply take you on a really bad path because that we have really gone completely to what Europe is looking for, and not only in 0.38% of people who didn't have these two days of electricity, but we would not even talk about the production of electricity from power plants, and we would have even more problems that would have looked at ourselves in such percentage, and not only in these two days of electricity, but we would be looking at a much higher percentage. Therefore, when you make certain decisions as a state and make decisions some political factors that would like to enter the Assembly here, creating some public opinion about how there is no concern for the country's economic activity, for the standards of environmental protection, and then show complete irresponsibility when it comes to protests and trying to stop Serbia in the way of your progress, and that it has proved to be now, simply when you go out and manipulate citizens when it comes to certain decisions, the countries in that part come out as some quasi-ecologists and you give yourself the right to scare people with certain inventions, then you get in response to the first European Union opening a cluster 4, in which you give recognition for all that you've done as a country in recent years, sometimes when it's both traffic infrastructure and traffic policy and Balkan energy networks and when it's about energy alone and when it's about protecting themselves, and when it's in terms of life that we'll be in one country that we'll be in which we go to one way and Serbia. Believe me, many of our colleagues and MPs and citizens from the countries of the region say -- well, you have Vukic, who really has the courage to make very responsible decisions, which suffers great pressures because of these decisions, but really as citizens, because at this point we don't have a "lockdown" as many countries in our neighbourhood, which are even EU members, we don't have a problem with electricity, except 0.38% of the citizens who, these two or three days by Monday, expect full regulation when it comes to electricity consumers, who don't have a problem with the price of gas that they have to pay on the world market, which has jumped from the day before because of the Greens decision in Germany not to release the North Stream, so the price on the world market is not like ours, $270 per thousand of gas is already worth fifty, and even jumps to a thousand and 600-700. So, you see, in fact, we're in the environment. And when you have such an environment, then you need very experienced people who need to work on these analyses to simply find all the scenarios that one country is going to behave on. It was a great pleasure for us to talk to a man who was both in the governments of Milka Planinc and in the governments of Ante Markovic and in the governments of Mr Avramovic, so, in the end, a member of the Board of Governors from the arrival of Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic, to take part in such important decisions that the state should make. The result that has been shown as regards foreign reserves and as regards stopping inflation that has started to grow, and otherwise when you look at other EU countries, it has been significantly, significantly smaller, projected to 3.7% on average for this year, it is also covered for the next year and the 2022 budget. So at this point, it's true that inflation growth is higher, but it's also true that the measures the government is implementing and the National Bank of Serbia for next year, so the beginning, we expect it to fall. Therefore, we believe that Mr Stojan Stamenkovic, a proposal for a member of the Board of Governors, is a good proposal, as long as Serbia has such an expert on its team, which should make responsible decisions by the state and by the NBS, we believe that we should support this proposal and vote for it. So we propose that all MPs support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11503	Thank you. Do the representatives of the board of directors want a word? (No) Before we move on to the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, one piece of information for you, colleagues. Today's vote is scheduled to take place around 17.00 hours, so you can comply with your obligations. We are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary clubs. The People's Messenger Samir Tandir came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11504	Thank you, Chairman. Dear President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Pantic, I am pleased to have you back with us, and I would like to congratulate you on your comprehensive report, you often come here, and I would like to acknowledge your engagement. I'm sorry the representatives of the ministry aren't here today, I think we'd have a lot to discuss, but there will be opportunities. Before I start discussing today's agenda, I want to look back at yesterday's cabinet session. As citizens and citizens remember, I spoke yesterday about the problem of supplying electricity in the Sanjay municipalities, but also in principle in all of Western Serbia. I am pleased that the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, attended the cabinet session that took place, because it is obvious that some things must be withdrawn and cut off, as it is obvious that some officials, ministers and directors of public enterprises behave quite autistically. Let me tell you, when you put three, six months, 2023, 2024 in your plans and programs, it all looks nice, nice and progressing. However, we who do not live in Belgrade live in the edged municipalities, we who will return, who live in the Sanjay municipalities, and some settlements and entire settlements do not have electricity, that means nothing to us on paper, right now. So, what you've had since the winter, it's ruined you, if you've had a freezer or you're dealing with agriculture, you've got a lot of material damage, and what you're writing in some reports, it doesn't mean anything to us at all. What makes me happy is that the president realized what a problem this is, thank him, and that he must obviously influence certain ministers to begin to interfere with their portfolio. I hope this will be the last winter in which we talk about cleaning snow and the power outage, because it's not just a problem in the system, for some officials, it's for us living in these municipalities a basic life problem and simply the inability of normal functioning. As for today's agenda, as civilizations developed, she felt the need to create a certain legal system. There were various empires that were extremely strong, we have an example of Hun, Mongol, etc., but they didn't leave any deeper civilizational trail, because they didn't have, among other things, their legal system. Powerful civilizations, powerful empires, who wanted to last for a long time, realized that as much as they were both military and economically superior, they had to establish something called justice and justice, because they realized that whoever's law lies in the topless, his tracks stinked of inhumanity, and that injustice went wrong, and that evil couldn't suffer. Then we have civilizations and empires that lasted hundreds of years, and among other things, the key to their success is in that legal system, where even if citizens were enslaved by these empires, they felt certain legal certainty. It's something that's very important to us today, it can be an extraordinary lesson in how we need to function today. What the SPP, as the strongest Bosniak party, points out, which has been defined in our programme acts, and what rickety President Muamer Zukorlic has always insisted, spoke, even a number of writings, is a uncompromising fight against crime and corruption. This is one of the foundations of our co-operation and reasons with the strongest SNS party and one of the reasons why we support the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's clear that we have results when it comes to fighting crime and corruption, especially at this global, state level, let's say, level. A serious crime group named Velja Belivuka has been broken. We see that the investigation goes on, and that's something very important, not just to establish those perpetrators and the perpetrators themselves, but to establish money flows and see where the criminal group stored all that money. Why? To send a message to all those who want to deal with crime so that this crime is not worth it and you can't say it – I'm going to do a little criminal, so I don't know, to secure my age, etc. That's why a clear message has to be sent so that criminal activities, law violations don't pay off. What is done in that segment, and in these cases we absolutely support it. But what we are insistent on is that this fight against crime and corruption is really going deep. What we're talking about is fighting crime and corruption in the environments where we come from, means in the Sanjay municipalities. Last week, we were saying that counterpart Jahja Fehratovic received threats from certain criminal groups. You might think, when someone who is an intellectual, a university professor, a MP gets open threats through social networks, what kind of legal certainty and any other security can have an ordinary citizen. Before that, what I expect from you, but also from all people, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, is to react urgently and to start a uncompromising fight against crime and corruption in the area of the Sandzah municipalities. What is an eclectic example of the haughtiness of criminal groups is the murder of journalists and humanist Edin Hamidovic in August of this year at a walkabout in Sjenica. So that's the case that President Zukorlic and other colleagues from our parliamentary group have discussed, so I have, too, spoken several times. I don't think there's a colleague who hasn't heard and now maybe someone will say – here he is again speaking on the subject. Of course we're talking about it because we haven't moved from a dead end. You can't happen to kill someone on the promenade while he's walking with his wife and kids. It doesn't matter which nation, which religion, which is a party, for God's sake. So everyone has the right to their political conviction, but no one must think that because someone else thinks they can take his life. How many innocent victims could there be, people walking around, they have no idea what's going on? What's the key problem? As in the case of the Zemun clan, as in the 1990s when crime was present and at the end of the Belivuk group, the problem is the spray of people from the system and criminals. The moment we break these ties, when people in the system understand, when we detect them, we throw out and punish them and punish them all for no longer being allowed to abuse the police badge, the position of the judge, the prosecutor that he can be a little, I don't know, partner with some criminals. Crime becomes stronger than the system when it has the support of certain people in the system. We have a clear commitment both to the president of the state and to the Prime Minister and to the entire government. We support it, but we need to see who's in the deep and what's in it. In the case of the murder of Edin Hamidovic, it didn't absolutely move off the dead end, it just happened. That's where I'm talking about the degrees of responsibility. The killer has left the country. Meanwhile, there has been a sudden death of rickety Zukorlic, and now these criminals feel strong again, brave and those in the Shadow there are waiting for, asking, sending messages over social networks, etc. This is something that we absolutely cannot allow and we need to examine who has allowed these criminals from the system to behave like this, and in this case we have a certain Bojan Trncic, head of the police station in Sjenica, which is part of that group and which, together with them, according to the knowledge that I have, is involved in certain criminal activities. This murder isn't the only one in the Shadow. We have the murder of a certain old woman named Miladija Kocovic, as well as the murder of Master Hussein Derdemez. It's something that's very symptomatic because it's happening in the border area towards Montenegro. What happens in these parts of our country, and the municipalities of Sjenica? It's something internal control needs to examine in detail. As for the Fahrudin Skarep cases, Erada Bakan and Fahrudin Mavric, the Justice and Reconciliation Party, primarily the rickety of President Zukorlic, but all our MPs have repeatedly spoken on this subject, appealed, asked the Ministry of Justice and the competent institutions to deal with this case in particular. Now we see that certain political structures or political structures in the formation are trying to make the accident of these three families to take advantage of some political point. It's something that absolutely never occurred to any of us, and that's something we can't allow. So, I want to take advantage of your presence, Ernad Bakan was 19 years old, a freshman at Zemun High Health School, when he was hit by a certain I.M. So, the trial is not over yet, and the next hearing is scheduled for December 27th. Because of the court's impeccableness, we now have an attempt to politicise the case. So now no one will say the court has done its job, but will say – uh, some Bosniak has been trampled at a walking crossing in Belgrade and now they will not condemn it. Please, we can't let that happen. So I really believe that it's not ethnic, in any way, motivated, but to tell you that there are people who don't think like me. As a political elite, as a parliament, as a part of the ruling majority, we must not allow such messages to be sent. We need to give citizens clear explanations and explanations and that people really trust our judicial system. As for the case of Skarep and Mavric, we also spoke several times, even organized certain forensic studies, analysis to prove that the case did not happen as presented. I'd like to ask, take this opportunity, the representatives of the Justice Department, the minister of justice to accept these families for a conversation and talk to them. Through institutions, these problems are solved, and they cannot be solved on the street. Someone will abuse these people's emotions. When, God forbid, you lose a member of the family, let me tell you, no verdict can bring it back to you, but what's important is that we have trust, especially in minority communities in the judicial system and in the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, and it will be fully established through a partnership relationship, or through a conversation to see what bothers families here, what they have a complaint, whether it's some kind of corruption, obstruction, etc. The only solution I see is one conversation. That's why I think that with these families at the highest level, so the Ministry needs to have a conversation. As for the need to elect new judges, I think it's more than important. We can't fight crime and corruption, we can't have an effective implementation of that fight if we have hundreds of cases waiting in our courtrooms. I'm going to say a few statistics concerning the Court of First Instance in Prepolje. So we have four and a half thousand lawsuits. The lawsuits are done in two courtrooms. According to the judge, we have about two thousand of these lawsuits. According to some statistics, about 15 cases of judges can end in a month, and you see now we're about five, six years old it takes to finish all of this. This is the data I got. So I think they're accurate, but you can check it out. We have 500 criminal cases. We also have two judges dealing with this problem. The choice of judges, the new judges, is very important. What we permanently insist on is percentage representation. So, we want representatives, not only of the Bosniak people, but of all other minority communities according to their participation in the percentage of the population to have both judges and prosecutors and other court staff in both primary and higher, etc. Why? That's how we make this trust that we're talking about. Of course, it must not go to the expense of quality, because very often we also have candidates here, honestly, with whom simply, from professional, it doesn't matter that they are members of my people, we can't support them because, according to us, professional standards don't satisfy. What I want to point out, as far as I'm concerned, is that my time is leaking, in terms of the functionality of the Commission's procurement procedures. A very important institution, and I don't think they have enough human resources, that there should be more people. Why? Because you're coming into a situation, like the city where I come from, or that part of our country, that you've got a bunch of contractors who just happen to be in every tender that they don't get objecting to, pay a tax of 120,000 dinars, and now that someone shows up to you in the course of the infrastructure season and blocks you out a road tender, you've lost that infrastructure year. What are you going to tell the citizens, and in fact, you've only done it by law. The Commission is overwhelmed by these requirements and you are failing these financial years, funds, etc. So we will absolutely vote when it comes to this proposal, as far as the Commission is concerned in public procurement procedures, but I think they lack human resources, that they lack more people to be more functional, simply those answers have to be legally done in seven days, 15, a month, and not to go indefinitely. As for the election of the Board of Governors, certainly supporting the National Bank, which runs a clear monetary policy, the course is stable and I think that we as MPs, citizens and citizens can be satisfied. As far as voting day is concerned, we'll vote on these proposals. As far as individual judges are concerned, we will retain the right to have an opinion in accordance with our party's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11505	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11506	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Pantic, we are today considering a number of draft decisions concerning the judiciary, i.e. human rights solutions within the judicial authority, and I do not know whether I am subjective in this matter, but I am getting the impression that this branch of power and through the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, but also through the recently adopted Law on the referendum and the People's Initiative in this House of Parliament speak more than ever. That is good, because the judiciary is one of three pillars of government and it as such, generally and at the same time must be in absolute correlation with its personnel solutions in order to produce adequate results. It is precisely from the way of organising and functioning of the judiciary and the normative framework, as well as the people to whom, and we still as MPs, that we give legitimacy, depends on the image of a country's judiciary and directly affects the exercise of citizens' rights. At yesterday's session of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, when considering the proposal for these decisions, which you have explained today, we had one observation that the reasoned proposals for decisions do not contain data on the average assessment of candidates during their studies, as well as the number of years of study. It is true that this information will ultimately not be crucial when we decide whether we support your proposals or not, but I think they can say a lot and show a lot about them, but also about their professional qualities. I'm sure that, in the context of your work, you certainly know them, these are your colleagues, and you know very well that they deserve to be on the agenda today, but for the sake of the general public, but also the MPs, I think we've taken a position on the Committee that in the future, while we're still considering these proposals, these proposals have their biographies as well. These are people who, directly or indirectly, perform that function, judgeship, influence the lives of citizens, and I hope that this well-intentioned suggestion will be respected. In addition to judges who are first elected to the judge's office, today we have a proposal for a decision on the choice of VSS from the order of judges of the Court of Appeals. It's the judge of the Kragujevac Court of Appeal. You have very well explained the reasons why this candidate should be supported today. Also, we don't have her biography either, but since it's a court of appeal with years of experience, even over 26 years of working in the judiciary, she's 22 years of judicial training, it's doubtless that this choice is indeed, that this choice will be really and very good. Mr Pantic, since this is where you've been so far, I am confident that the proposed judge will continue where you left off, that he will continue the work that you failed to finish for a little while. On this occasion, I would also like to thank you for your cooperation so far, but also for your willingness to understand and respect the presentations of the Members of the People, to listen to them, and to give an appropriate explanation accordingly, in most cases, that the result or at least is heard and come to an understanding. I wish you good luck in future work. As far as statistics are concerned, it shows that from year to year a growing number of women are enrolled in high schools and universities. This is what we can see from the proposal for judges who are first elected to the judge's office, but also from the proposal for the election of the VSS. Let's say, in the Constitutional Court, at this point, we have as many as nine women, and that is an indication that we are on a good path to respect equality in all segments where this equality is not understood, but simply comes in time to its place. Perhaps today is the time to talk about the judiciary when changes in the Constitution are in progress and apply in the greatest part, namely only to the judicial authority alone. The Act of Change of the Constitution applies exclusively to the judiciary, as I said, and it does not change other parts of the Constitution. I have a need to say that, given that in the public it is very often heard the connotation that constitutional changes involve some other changes. On the contrary, they refer exclusively to the regulation of courts, public prosecutors and provide for some additional constitutional guarantees, independence of judges and courts, which we have spoken of in this term, I can say, Maltas not at any other session, as well as the importance of the independence of courts in general and judges. In the system of power-sharing on legislative, executive and judicial authority, the judicial authority is independent, and the relationship between these three branches of government is based on mutual verification, but also on the balance that exists between them. This means that even the judicial authority cannot be segregated from the system and cannot be held accountable to itself. It shall belong to courts which are independent, and their decision may be reviewed only by the competent court in the procedure provided for in advance. What is perhaps most important, judges must be independent, which means that any inappropriate influence on the judge in the performance of his judicial office is prohibited. The next thing that is covered by the Act of Change of the Constitution is the guarantee of the continuity of the judge's function and we talked a lot about it. In a system in which judges are elected for a certain period of time, i.e. with the possibility of re-election, the question of the independence of judges can be quite justified. That is why the first election of judges is scheduled to be abolished for three years in the future, we can call it the trial work of the judge, although he is essentially not and the judge's office will therefore continue for the judge until the completion of his working life and the decision to terminate the judicial office is made by the body who chooses them, which is the VSS. It may be one of the biggest changes that the future judges and presidents of the Supreme Court, as well as the presidents of the courts, will be elected by the VSS. We have so far discussed this in the Assembly, the public has partly had insight into it, but according to the current constitutional provisions of the National Assembly, although it has made the choice of judges on the VSS proposal in the future it will not be the case. Therefore, representatives of the executive and legislative authorities will no longer participate in the choice of judges, and all of this has one ultimate goal, which is to ensure greater independence, efficiency and accountability of the judiciary, but ultimately, better protection of citizens and strengthening the rule of law. In addition to the judiciary in today's debate, we are also considering a decision to elect members of the Board of Governors of the NBS. The Board of Governors of the National Bank shall consist of five members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the competent committee. Today we have a candidate who was first elected in 2012, then in 2016 and the re-election shows that he was really doing his job, that the policy led by the NBS preserved the status for which it was in charge and for all of this and for the reason that the SDPS puts a man in the centre of all its programming principles as someone who should be the bearer of all these changes, the SDPS will support all of those decision proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11507	The word has the mandated representative of the JS parliamentary group, master Djordje Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11508	Thank you. Dear Mr Pantic, in front of the High Council of the Judiciary, respected Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, Mrs Jevdić, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today been joined by a discussion of several motions and I will briefly note that we remind ourselves once again, so - The motion for a decision on the election of judges elected for the first time at the judge's office, then the proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the High Council of Justice, someone coming from Kragujevac, I am Mr Pantic of Kragujevac, someone who has a career over 20 years, speaks in favour of how we get a candidate, to say, our replacement, then, two decisions on the termination of the office of the Public Prosecutor in the Great Plan and the termination of the office of the President of the Administrative Court, as well as a proposal for a decision to suspending the role of two members of the Republic Commission for the protection of law in public procurement procedures and a decision on the election of the members of the Board of the Board of the governor of the NS. I will immediately say that the JS parliamentary group will support the aforementioned decisions in the voting day. But, Mr Pantic, when we talk about the judiciary, I, at the very beginning, must say that JS advocates the maximum strengthening of judicial independence, the independence of the prosecution, as a prerequisite for the rule of law. Mr Pantic, on the other hand, this is a strengthening of the judiciary and independence of the prosecution does not mean getting away from the people but rather the opposite, so if we strengthen the prosecution, if we strengthen the judiciary, that means keeping away from inappropriate influences in society, and that's the goal of all of us, right? What is important is that an independent judge means a guarantee that he fully applies the law and that when a judge does not have privileges as far as judicial judgments are concerned. On the other hand, every country that claims to be democratic, and Serbia certainly is, it is important that it has a good and efficient judicial system from which the other pillars arise, to say, the rule of law and, as I said, Serbia goes that way, because the only condition and interest of each state is that it must be equal for all its citizens and principles of judicial independence and impartiality are the basis for a democratic and modern society like Serbia, as I said, is and which are based on the rule of law and a good judge is certainly that judge, and there you will agree with me, who has sworn to judge by law, that it is not subject to any will, but fair and honorable justice. In the past 10 years, Serbia has gone through comprehensive reforms regarding the judiciary, and all in order for the new organisation to say, courts. It places all the burden on reforms, and as the ultimate goal of the visible development of justice in the Republic of Serbia. We can say that Serbia may also be a leader in the region when we say it is about judicial independence, because today in Serbia, the judge enjoys full freedom when it comes to making all decisions. On the other hand, Mr. Pantic, you'll agree with me, we can never again allow a year without a job to leave practically a thousand, close to a thousand judges and prosecutors, without the law of the envisaged procedure and the right to appeal, so big damage has been done to the entire society, and that on the other hand, and I say that this cost the state somewhere around 44 million. This at that time, on the other hand, has extended many people's lengthy processes because we know that many processes last even decades. When we talk about the length of the process, I have to say that the definition of the age of the case now in Serbia implies items up to three years of age. Indeed, Mr Pantic, it is absurd that we have some items that or processes that have been going on in Serbia for decades, that someone, let's say, I've already talked about it, comes to the point that when they get an inheritance on the other side, they get an inherited process that lasts for a decade. On the other hand, when we talk about the EU's Justice Development Strategy, the EU's Justice Development Strategy is in line with the strategy adopted by the Republic of Serbia in 2013. The strategy also implies the need for infrastructure investment in buildings and courts as regards the Republic of Serbia. I have to say here, for example, over the past 20, 30 years, very little has been invested in all the facilities, and over the past 30 years, I have to say, the maintenance of these facilities has been very low. When we talk about infrastructure facilities, Mr. Pantic, I must say I come from Kragujevac and I will remind you only of the Court of Justice in Kragujevac. This seems to me to be one of the most significant infrastructure facilities built in the Republic of Serbia over the past decades. All judicial authorities are located in one place, which certainly made it easier to make judicial decisions, and on the other hand, justice was available, will be available to all citizens. I would point out the importance of electronic justice. Electronic data exchange directly contributes to the efficiency of the judiciary through a reduction in the duration of judicial and other proceedings as it enables, on the other hand, immediate insight into the data that are relevant for the conduct of proceedings. Practically one click contrary to the long-term travel of paper-shaped memos. Thanks to the E-government, the E-Justice and the Information System, a cost savings of 1.1 billion dinars has been achieved, which means that saving and saving paper is practically, Mr Pantic, a year from now, saving that practically a third of the Court of Justice in Kragujevac could be built. At the very end when I talk about this topic, I want to say that JS supports every effort by this government to make Serbia a country of equal opportunities for all. When it comes to the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the functions of two members of this Commission, it should first be said that the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures is a independent and independent body of the Republic of Serbia which provides for the protection of rights in accordance with the law and provisions of Article 188. The law on public procurement prohibits any attempt to influence and influence the decision-making of the Republic of the Commission. The Republic Commission has legal status and is solely responsible for its work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The President and the members of the Commission cannot be called to account for their opinions by the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, and on the other hand, as they vote. The provisions of the Law on Public Procurement shall also specify the jurisdiction, composition and selection of the Republic Commission. At the very end, when it comes to selecting members of the NBS Board, it should be said that Serbia has achieved and maintained price stability and strengthened financial stability. This makes it possible, on the other hand, for our citizens and the economy to be easier to do business, plan, and for the economy to continue to develop on a healthy basis. Over nine years, as far as the NBS is concerned, I'll say only some parameters, the dinar has increased by 0.9% compared to the euro. On the other hand, NBS bought 3.2 billion euros on the foreign exchange market, so at this point foreign exchange reserves at 14.7 billion euros. Also, gold reserves are at 36.7 tonnes, which is increased, the parameter, compared to 2012 by 21 tonnes. The dinar savings on the other hand have grown to 100 billion dinars. Finally, let me just say one more time, Mr Pantic, that the JS Parliamentary Group will support all the motions for decisions in this united debate in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11509	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Tom Fila.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11510	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, dear fellow Pantic, you are truly respected, I must say, dear colleagues and colleagues, before I move on to the discussion, all that Djordje Dabic said, on behalf of the group of the Committee of Justice, I fully accept, with one reserve, which is common to me. The SPS parliamentary group, in line with the coalition agreement, will vote in favour of the candidate for the judges you have proposed. None of us MPs, the SPS, have received any information that would potentially challenge the appointment of one of the candidates. Let me put my point of view on the subject of the judge's election. I wouldn't want this to be considered my lamentation for not accepting my position, in which I'm not alone, that the first choice of judges should be kept in the power of the Assembly. If a referendum is adopted for 16 January 2022, this will be one of the latest judges in this room. I'm going back to our theme. The VSS proposal contains at least three failures, in candidate biographies. First, there is no data on the length of study, the second has no average rating for studies at law schools, which they have completed. When we talk about these two failures, I point out that several times, my colleague and I, we have turned our attention to the Justice Committee, that these two data are very important for the consideration of the candidacy. I'll explain more widely, in large cities people don't know each other and get lost in the crowd, but in small towns, our man knows a doctor, a teacher, a teacher, a priest, especially a judge. In the perception of the inhabitants of these cities, the judge has a special place because he shares justice. The question is, can he have the reputation of a judge, who is known to have studied law for many years, with a very modest average in studies? These two remarks lead me to a third remark. The Supreme Council of the judiciary, in this House, proposes only one candidate as judge. So we vote for this candidate, basically take it or leave it. My opinion is that we should have more information on candidates who have applied and have not met the criteria of the Commission to elect judges, which VSS did not propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, much more transparency would be achieved in selecting candidates. This is especially what I insist on in places where there are different populations, where there are different religions, backgrounds, etc. I repeat, this would result in much greater transparency in selecting candidates. In doing so, we would understand why this very candidate was proposed, not someone else. In that sense, we would have all the necessary parameters to decide, when we decide which candidate it will be. We'd know why this particular candidate was proposed. All that I have said will be the past already on January 16th, however, I have the right to ask myself, what the choice of judges will look like in the future. They will be chosen by 11 powerful people, not 250 MPs chosen by the people. The paradox is that the elected judges will judge on behalf of the people. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me finish with the Latin saying "dixie et salvavi animam meam", in the translation reads - I said and saved my soul. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11511	Thanks, buddy. For our children, MP Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11512	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Petrovic, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is now ahead of us with a number of decisions proposing the choice, but also the termination of the post, as well as the holder of judicial functions, member of the Board of Governors of the NBS, the VSS, as well as members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. All the proposals for decisions clearly state that there is already established and good practice in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that these decisions allow for the regular and normal functioning of all competent institutions. When we talk about the motion for a decision on the election of a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS, I would like to say that it is in article 22. The NBS Act is clearly prescribed that the Board of Governors makes five members, that they are elected by the National Assembly, and on a proposal from the Assembly Committee responsible for Finance and that the term of office of the Board of Governors takes five years and that the same person may be re-elected to that function. With Mr Stojan Stamenkovic's term of office due on 27 December this year, it was necessary to initiate a new procedure to elect a member of the Board of Governors. In this process, the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, he proposed that Stojan Stamenkovic perform this function for the next five years, which is performed in the past five years. Afterwards, the Assembly Committee in charge of finance conducted a clearly established procedure, held talks with the proposed candidate and then set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors. I believe that this proposal is good because Mr. Stamenkovic has the necessary, i.e. the necessary knowledge from the work of the NBS, which is primarily aimed at preserving and strengthening financial stability and that the NBS has achieved the observed results in the past few years according to the rate of the dinar, according to the amount of savings, then inflation rates and all other things that have allowed Serbia to achieve an economic growth of 7.4% in the following year and that it is projected to grow by slightly more than 4%. When we talk about the proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of two members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, I would say that this decision has a formal character, given that the members of that Commission cease to function on the expiry date on which they were elected, that is to say, on 27 December of this year, and the MP, Aleksandar Vucic, will vote for this proposal. In addition to these decisions, we have before us the proposals for decisions relating to the choice of a judicial holder, as well as the termination of the office of the President of the Administrative Court, as well as the election of a member of the Visa Council of the judiciary. Since the President of the Administrative Court so far, Jelena Ivanovic, by decision of the VSS, was elected Judge of the Supreme Court of Cassation, acquired all the legal conditions for Jeleni Ivanovic to suspend the office of President of the Administrative Court in Belgrade. As we speak about the VSS, the High Council of the Judiciary has, in the previous period, referred to a proposal for a decision to elect a missing member of the VSS in the order of the Court of Justice and proposed that the National Assembly adopt that decision by an urgent procedure in order to ensure the timely fill-up of the Judge's seat in the VSS and that the VSS may make decisions and exercise all its legal competences in full capacity. During the previous period, the High Council of the Courts carried out a legal procedure relating to the selection of members of the VSS and the committee responsible and the House of the National Assembly proposed that a Judge of the Court of Appeal from Kragujevac be elected as a member of the VSS, and that more information was presented by you as a representative of the VSS. Furthermore, also before us, as I talked about good and established practice in the past year, when I talk about the area of justice, is the proposal for a decision on the choice of legal holders for primary and criminal courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This and previous decisions show a clear example that we want to select all judges at a shorter time interval to allow the judicial authorities to carry out their tasks in full capacity and to allow citizens to exercise justice at a shorter time interval, i.e. to obtain judicial judgments. But what is very important, I have said many times in previous sessions, is that future judges have to do their job extremely well, that they must do this job responsibly, morally and honestly, because only in this way create a lot of trust in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, but what is most important is to create a high degree of security for citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and thus to ensure that judicial judgments come in a faster way and that their rights are fully guaranteed both by the Constitution and by law are protected. All these proposals for decisions concerning both the choice and the termination of the office of the judge, i.e. the public prosecutor, thus showing a clear distinction in the pre-2012 period. Today we clearly show that we want the judicial authorities to work in full capacity, to choose judges at the shortest time since the moment the proposal for decisions was submitted by the VSS, while representatives of the former regime used this judiciary to achieve their own private interests and to mislead the third branch of the government under direct political influence. That is why, in 2020, we and the Government, as an authorised promoter, decided to begin the process of changing our highest legal act, i.e. the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the area of justice. This is what we wanted to do for only one reason, which was precisely the concerns of the Venice Commission that were given in 2005, which were not included in the Constitution in 2006, when the Venice Commission expressed serious concerns about the possible political impact in the election of judges and prosecutors, and we wanted to do so fully, and the regrets that we should have done so, although representatives of the former regime which they had not done and created a fertile ground for reforming the judiciary that took place in 2009 and 2010. We started that procedure a year ago. From this process we created a transparent, inclusive process, but during that year we met with many of the problems that came to us by the expert, but I would say by the political public. We have been trying here from the home of the National Assembly to clearly explain that the government's only intention, as a mandated promoter and the National Assembly as the highest legislative body, is to remove the choice of judges from the National Assembly's home, to make a complete distinction with the legislative authority, but here we have met with serious objections by certain political officials, but also by the expert public. In order not to go now, i.e. not to return to the period a year ago, during yesterday's statement on a paper under the direct control of today's tycoon opposition, Dragana Rakic, vice president of the DS, declares that the Constitution cannot change an illegal National Assembly without opposition and that there has been no real professional or general public debate on the announced amendments to the constitution. You know, when someone sits in the position of vice president of the DS, I really think that if he's engaged in serious and responsible business, he should follow the political scene, but also follow everything that happens in the House of the National Assembly when we talk about changing the Constitution as the highest legal act. It is not true that this congregation is illegal. It is not true, as we hear from certain political factors, which come from the opposition camp, that this is a single-party assembly. You today, Mr Petrovic, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can see that on my right there are representatives of the SNS, that on my left there are representatives of the SPS, JS and other political parties, and that is, the result of the elections held in June 2020 when the SNS won, through the will of the citizens, over 60% of the vote. So, in any case, we cannot talk about the one - party congregation because we could hear different opinions during this term. It is not true when DS Deputy President Dragana Rakic said there was no expert or general public debate, because the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee organised eight public hearings that were entirely inclusive, where all relevant factors were invited and these relevant factors were able to express their positive and negative opinions in relation to the proposed changes when we talk about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and there was also a session of committees with the presence of extraparliamental parties where, again, the representatives were involved enough, the Serbian Radical Party, the People's Party Vuk Jeremic and other political actors, and even at that session were giving their dissuasive opinions. Then you have in that same list, on that same day, you have an interview with Sanda Raskovic Ivić, a member of the People's Party, saying that it should go out and vote against the amendments to the Constitution, because it is the introduction to other changes, such as changing the preamble where KIM is defined as part of Serbia. I really cannot believe that people sitting in the leadership of political parties today struggling to achieve a good result in the upcoming elections and enter the home of the National Assembly are literally not following anything when we talk about changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, no constitutional amendment, and 39 of them, is allowed to change anything that has nothing to do with the jurisdiction of the judiciary, and especially to be touched in the preamble of the Constitution, to be touched by basic rights guaranteed by the Constitution, or to allow foreign companies, as they represent the last month when we talk about "Rio Tintu", to get the opportunity to do anything without previously declaring themselves citizens in the referendum. Also, in her interview, the lady said that she literally knows nothing about the content of 29 amendments in this act and it is quite obvious that the authorities will not bother to make it possible for citizens to report on it. So, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who were following the National Assembly, who are monitoring the media, who are tracking the funds of public information, were able to see what the subject of the constitutional change was and could see the content of these constitutional But it is obvious that the upcoming referendum, which was scheduled for 16 January 2022, was used to use the theme of the referendum and the topic of ousting judges from the National Assembly's elections as a whole, and that they would use the change process of the Republic of Serbia for political purposes. You will also see the previous days of certain political parties who say they should not go to the referendum because it allows the possibility of "Rio Tintu" to do what, or the possibility of "Rio Tinto" working towards their political programmes, although they advocated in 2004, that the same "Rio Tinto" should come to Serbia, although they have concluded a large number of agreements with the company, and that we as the Serbian Progressive Party have done nothing about it. Obviously, I conclude that they are not fully interested in making the judiciary more independent and that is completely justified to me, given all the things they did in 2009 and 2010. I can't imagine anyone getting in the way, i.e. that he will not vote in favour of a constitutional amendment saying that the political influence or any form of inappropriate influence on the holders of judicial functions is not allowed. Obviously, they would like the election of judges to remain here in parliament, if they could come from the Democratic Party and other layers of the former Democratic Party to directly influence judges and prosecutors in order to provide for themselves the apportionment. Obviously, they disagree with the Supreme Court being the Supreme Court in the future, and they did not read anything about why that court should bear that name. They don't agree, probably, with the fact that instead of today's senior or primary prosecutor being the chief prosecutor, because I'm not saying it again, and I'll always mention it by 16 January, they literally don't know anything about changing the Constitution, and I'm very sorry. You know why they don't know? They do not know because they have not been able to read any document relating to the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But that's why they know very well that they're going out into the streets, they know they're blocking the streets, they know they're breaking the Constitution and the law guaranteeing freedom of movement, because it's very important for them to make such things cheap political points. You see today and the previous days of Dragan Gilas, who again says this is an illegal assembly, and it is illegal because they did not go to the elections, not because the representatives of a political party sit here. We cannot from the Serbian Progressive Party conduct them in elections. They had never had a better election of conditions, and that is confirmed by the Europarliamentaries they invited here to Serbia to be their modernists so that I don't know what they've achieved in these electoral conditions, and then they've picked themselves up and left those negotiations. Directly, the Serbian Progressive Party and Aleksandar Vucic have influenced the descent from 5% to 3%, while in 2008, they increased the same censorship threshold from 3% to 5% to directly harm other small political parties. It is obvious that these gentlemen, who today say that the Assembly is illegal, has no political programme and has no political idea that they can present to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The clear result of all this is today's statement by President Aleksandar Vukic, who informed the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that a new drug has arrived in Serbia against the crown of the virus, that it has been provided for 11500 people, that in the coming period it will be provided for over 50,000 people, that it is a tablet given at an early stage of the existence of the coronary virus, that it will completely prevent the fatal outcome and that only three countries have obtained such a cure. In addition, we've been building new bird hospitals, building highways, fast cars, and that's the kind of thing that wins the election. The election cannot be won by reforming the judiciary and leaving people in the streets, it cannot win by remaining three million pending cases, with the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia tracking over 44m euros in compensation. These things can't win the elections, and that's what the citizens showed them in 2012, when they didn't vote for them and when the Serbian Progressive Party headed the country and implemented reforms in all important areas, and that's what I'm talking about in the area of justice. Certainly, the Electoral Group, Aleksandar Vukic, will vote in favour of all the proposed decisions in the voting day. I truly believe that these decisions, as well as the proposed changes when we talk about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, will make the judiciary, since it is certainly independent today, even more independent if there is a confirmation of the results in the referendum. But what's more important is that the Serbian Progressive Party never wanted to exert political influence and we're showing it to the proposed changes to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11513	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We're moving on to the speaker list. The word has a national emissary, Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11514	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear Representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a proposal on the agenda for a number of decisions that primarily concern the way judges who are elected for the first time in court. In fact, in this session we have spoken and discussed on this subject many times, and the constitutional changes we have just proposed are going towards an even more independent and independent judiciary, which is the goal of which we certainly need to pursue, and for whom every modernized and democratically-minded country tends. Among other things, Serbia declared itself and set out for the trip. With regard to the election of judges, whether in this variant or following a referendum, if citizens make themselves known, the quality that they delegate to the choice of the judge, the prosecutor and the general judicial authorities are, in addition to expertise and competence, the quality of dignity. This is something that will mean a fundamental change in the judicial function, in respect of the judiciary and in general with regard to the protection of justice, justice and improvement of the judicial process. In fact, somewhere in the sense of dividing the government into an extraordinary, legislative and judicial one, in which the court will be as independent as possible and serve to preserve the legal order of the country, is actually something that is the main goal and insistence of modern-oriented countries. What we, as MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party in this conference, have often warned and talked about, is that sometimes these important functions, especially in smaller areas, know how to abuse and, unfortunately, instead of doing it for the benefit of the citizens, are actually directly applied to injustice and destroying citizens' rights. That's how it's supposed to be done. We mentioned specific cases, and the most characteristic case is the murder of journalists and humanist Edin Hamidovic. We expect both the prosecution and the judicial authorities to determine their business. We often hear that among the judges we have corrupt, among the police, among those who are superior to the police. Even the heads of certain police stations connect with highly suspicious and criminal activities. It's something that shouldn't happen, because if someone is such an important organ, and in their behavior, they actually give away a completely different picture, then there's a real danger of breaking the law, of direct work against citizens' interests, etc. What we have insisted on and what we continue to insist on is to take care of the national representation of employees in the ranks of national authorities from national minorities that make up the composition of the population of a particular territory. We think primarily of the police, police officers, the tax administration, say, in Novi Pazar, the judiciary, the prosecution, and all the state authorities that actually represent the system of a particular state, because this is something where responsibility and trust are shown to the citizens, whether they belong to a majority or to one of the minority peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11515	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Misali Pramenkovic. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11516	This may be the last time we choose judges in the Serbian Parliament, the last time the people of Serbia have the opportunity to decide as sovereign in this country who will be the people who decide his fate, who will be the people who share justice, on the condition that a referendum that changes our Constitution will pass. I want to believe that this change has nothing to do with the preamble on Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia, I want to even believe that it has nothing to do with Rio Tint, but the problem that exists here with the opinion of the Venice Commission, with the pressure Brussels is making over Serbia to change the way the judges choose, is already sufficiently humiliating for Serbia why we accept these conditions. The policy that you have continued after the previous regime that the EU has no alternative leads to us forming our society and state the way they want in Brussels, and they do not take any responsibility for ever seeing us in that community. I remind again of the idea of a lawyer, Goran Petronivic, that if the pressure is so high and we have to adopt these changes, then we leave only that clause to put them into effect when Serbia becomes a full member of the EU. It doesn't cost anyone anything to continue to be ready to go to Brussels, but it protects our national and social interest. What's the Venice Commission? She's an advisory part, the advisory body of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe is an international organisation separate from the EU. So, we listen to the terms of an advisory group of people who are not even part of the EU machine just because the EU continues to apply double standards towards our country, not only in terms of territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, but also in the area of justice and the rule of law. The Venice Commission does not listen to almost anyone in the EU. Italy has already refused to follow their recommendations several times. There is no legal obligation to listen to the Venice Commission, and we accept the humiliation that as a non-EU country under pressure Brussels accepts the advisory opinion of a non-binding body and under this pressure changes its constitution, the first, largest law that forms the basis of the judicial system and the rule of law in Serbia. So that's the humiliation that the SNS and its authorities are giving us, not the government of the yellow regime, as you say, and it will remain in history. It is necessary to fight these constitutional changes, to be part of the constitutional defence movement that is currently emerging, and which is not a party, and which has no limit for people belonging to other parties, there is no limit for these people to be members of the ruling parties, such as lawyer Vladimir Djukanovic, who openly says he will vote against the change of the Constitution, as well as President of the Ivica Dacic Assembly, who in one mild way shows that he does not agree with these changes. In that sense, all of what Brussels is asking us, and we humbled accept that we are changing the Constitution in that direction, will lead to something that, contrary to the Venice Commission, the Dutch Association of Lawyers thinks, which is that the election of judges by judges will lead constitutional changes in Serbia to that, is the case, is the most appropriate ground for the emergence of corruption, the emergence of informal lobbyist influences, which will be done by us not only by foreign embassies, but also by foreign corporations. So in this EU, there are some lawyers who think, as we do, that the idea of this change in the Constitution is counterproductive and that it violates the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial, because if one authority is free from any influence from other authorities then there is neither control nor balance. Of course, the question arises why 80% of the countries, the EU member states do not have such laws and why this is applied by the Venice Commission only to those countries belonging to the Eastern bloc and South-Slovenian space. Well, because the EU, in the same way that it has served you the energy crisis that we have received, wants to bring down our judicial system, because it does not want us to be free citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11517	Thank you. Authorised representative, Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Dejan Kesar, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11518	The President-in-Office, it is obvious that individual MPs are not doing their job properly, which is to take constitutional amendments, read constitutional amendments, read the document on the amendment of the Constitution adopted here in the House of the National Assembly, and will see that it has nothing to do with the change of the preamble, nor with the creation of conditions for the work of certain foreign companies, and here I notice the intensity when we talk about Rio Tint. When we talk about the Venice Commission, it has indeed given all positive opinions through this open inclusive process when we talk about changing the Constitution. This shows the European Commission's 2021 report, which says Serbia has made progress in the area of justice. Thanks to this, Serbia managed to open a cluster 4 at an intergovernmental conference held yesterday, dedicated to protecting the environment, the green energy agenda, but it is obvious that certain representatives of the opposition are not pleased, because this clearly shows that Serbia is moving forward, that Serbia is the only country in the Western Balkans that has opened a specific cluster and negotiating chapters. This just shows that we are acting responsibly today, that we are on the path of the EU and that we want to coordinate our legislation on EU legislation. What we have said many times is that we will not be a flow water heater for all legal solutions and that we have the right to adopt certain legislative solutions that are good and to remove the negative ones. When a colleague says this is a humiliation, I would really say, that the greater humiliation was in 2009 when 1500 people were expelled into the streets and people had no means to support their families and to directly harm the integrity and position of the Republic of Serbia. I really believe that both today's decisions and the very change of the Constitution we want to strengthen the capacity of today's Serbian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11519	Thank you. Right on line, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11520	My dear colleague, I have no problem with what you said because I just said in my presentation that I believe, and first I saw that there is no mention of the preamble and change of preamble to Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, even, let me say that I want to believe that it has nothing to do with Rio Tint and not only Rio Tint, but with many other foreign corporations that are going through Serbia, and yet I remind myself of the government issues days, I did not get a competitive answer that we have over 300 mining corporations working in Serbia, and we only have five mining inspectors who control on behalf of the state what they do. So it doesn't matter who the Venice Commission is. It's important that we allow someone to order us to listen to the Venice Commission that Italy has for several years, ignored several times and disobeyed their suggestions. The important thing is that the Venice Commission has special arches for us who make up the former countries so-called. The communist bloc, which requires neither France nor Germany nor other Western European countries, is what it requires of us. It is important that we be pushed into an experiment that will destroy our judiciary. So these are the things that I think the SNS isn't doing well because it supports these changes, but again on the other hand, to be honest, I like the energy with which you support it, because it's obviously out of energy, and I hope you're going to run a campaign to just help save the Constitution. It is okay for you under pressure to declare that you support changes in the Constitution but, as you know and as most people in Serbia know, this is a disastrous change and we have to stand up to it. As in economics and ecology and as in energy, they told us that renewable sources would solve everything, so we forgot about coal and here's the energy crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11521	We're continuing on the list of registered speakers. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11522	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representative of the High Council of the Judiciary, Mr Pantic, is today another day when Serbian citizens, through parliament, are certainly choosing high-quality judges in the judicial functions and the parliament of the Republic of Serbia in a proper, appropriate and possible way, which could possibly replace some direct election of judges, if one can properly replace them, in the right way, handing out justice. To make fair, fair decisions, to work in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia, to be brave, to be independent and completely independent in making their decisions, but that depends solely on their knowledge, on their moral characteristics and I hope that these proposals that have reached us have been well assessed, since, as far as I know, no more serious objections have arrived on the proposed list of candidates. I expect there'll be other judges besides this one. I was wrong last time we were picking judges, so I thought it wouldn't happen again. Obviously, the current VSS assembly which proved to be very responsible and correct in its work, because their representative is here today in the Assembly, as VSS representatives have always been in the Assembly and defended the proposals that the High Council of the Judiciary delivered to this House, unlike today we do not have a representative of the State Council of Prosecutors. But, uh, about the reasons I estimate they're related to it, I'll do it later. First of all, so that history does not forget in those whose citizens of Serbia, perhaps if a referendum called for 16 January gives an answer that I do not like, which is to adopt the proposed constitutional amendment, may for the last time be judges who will, with full right, be entitled to write on behalf of the people in the future. These are, to be remembered, in the Administrative Court – future judge Mirjana Popović, Tatjana Popara, Katarina Pecic Ilic, at the General Court in Backo Palanca – Judges Jelena Savić, Milica Dubljević, Milena Baletić, in the Main Court of the Great Plan – it will be judges, of course, when the vote passes, Dusan Milošević, Bojana Lalic, Svetlana Jović, Tamara Radovanović, Jelena Vuković, in Prijepolje – Maida Iglica, Tijana Kontar Špica, Marija Vizlina, Ana Pejović, in Ivanjica – in Petrovic at Mlavić – Dragan Jokanovic, Jelena Kukolj, in Leban – Saša Branković, Silvana Stanković, in Lazarović – Dejan Kastratović, Sanja Jovanović, in Rumivić, in Mukrštin Jukrštin, Nekršič, Nekr. When I return to law, if constitutional changes come into effect after the referendum and if I happen after any case I take part in, who will be judged by those who will be elected in the newly proposed way, the first and the main cause with which I will go to Strasbourg is – where is the right to write it on behalf of the people. These are the objections we talked about here very clearly and loudly while there was a debate over constitutional amendments and I wouldn't go back to it too much. I just want to underline, that it is clear to the citizens of Serbia that there is no real interference, and that, although I am an opponent and I will vote against this referendum, there is no direct, indirect connection here with Rio Tint, nor with the preamble, nor with anything else, except for the work concerning the judiciary, or courts, the way judges are elected and the prosecution. What I was saying in the public prosecutor's hearing is clearly manifested today as such. I am afraid that the provisions of the Constitution that the current deputy public prosecutors will equalise with the public prosecutors are not appropriate and that one day it will be revealed that either a contest for the election of 800 public prosecutors to obtain the status, with judges there is no such problem, has been authorized by the Serbian parliament to lead the proceedings of the court and to bring judgments on behalf of the people. The deputy public prosecutors were given limited powers on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and these powers do not imply the rights of public prosecutors. The public prosecutor is in the process of signing all acts, from requests and warrants to bringing charges, indictments, indictments, withdrawals in the process, and many others for which the deputy prosecutors do not have the right to make. But in this, someone else has to think and I think it will create a proper problem in some future practice, because simply by power, it can be changed by name, Borislav changed his name to Borko, so it's about one person, not younger, not more beautiful, not smarter, but it's about powers, a very different function, what public prosecutors can do in their business, and what public prosecutors can do, and it's not a benign point and difference at all. However, as is the picture and today's session, we have one decision at today's session on the termination of the public prosecutor's office. I am again as at the previous session when we had a finding of the end of the public prosecutor's office, if I'm not mistaken, in Kursumlija there was then, misreading, a video of the prosecutor Lidija Komlen Nikolic. I really expected those who are calling for the Serbian Parliament to have a limited right to discuss their work, to comment on the treatment and everything else, and I really expected that according to the current code, at least some action would be initiated against the distinguished Mrs. Lidija Komlen Nikolic, because of everything that was said in September of the month when the public hearing was held, in the Serbian Parliament. This lady gave herself the right to directly threaten the MPs of the Republic of Serbia if they do not vote and accept the changes proposed by the Working Group to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. I am afraid that the constitutional amendments, and that's obviously the DVT aware, and that's why they came and I believe today, without even an apology and an explanation that their representative is not here in the O.R., and he is obliged to be in front of the MPs, practically, instead of what is called independence and what we know that the prosecution and what it has the right to do, as a coward's egg through this translation and renaming, comes at the stage of independence. The famous Goran Ilic explained on "N1" that the prosecution will essentially become independent. Is this the behaviour and actions of the State Council of Prosecutors, who today has no representative, who does not initiate proceedings against someone who has allowed himself in such a way absolutely to know responsibility for every spoken word, that the lady who has tried in such a way, I am sure without success, because here we all have an opinion, but trying to put pressure on MPs is in no way sanctioned? That she found neither fit nor after the last time she was commented on this topic here in this house, to offer an apology to the MPs of the National Assembly or an explanation. It's something that's inadmissible. Dear colleagues, I'm afraid that in the future, if 16 January is what I don't want to happen, it awaits us. I apologize here because today, indeed, it is the termination of the office of the Public Prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plan, Ms. Slavica Jovanovic, who finished his working age on 27 April 2022. I congratulate her, because according to everything I've heard about her work and found out, it was one extremely serious, committed person to his job, and she needs to be wanted to enjoy retirement, because someone who's left in that neighborhood is an extraordinary lead as a decent, honest and decent public prosecutor. I will also support all these decisions and these proposals, because this is the only real way for judges to judge on behalf of the people. Everything else isn't like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11523	Thank you. The word is made by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, National MP Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11524	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Mr Pantic, fellow MPs, the moment has come that this may be the last session where we MPs choose judges on a proposal from the Supreme Council of the judiciary, because by adopting constitutional amendments and implementing the referendum, which will exclusively refer to the area of justice of the future public prosecutors and judges will elect a body that will consist of members of the High Council of the judiciary, the High Council of Prosecutors and prominent lawyers to be proposed by the National Assembly. Many times in front of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, when we discussed in the Assembly the choice of judges and other legal holders, I stressed that the independence of the judiciary and the prosecution is one of the most important pillars of the rule of law and that it gives security and assurance to all Serbian citizens that Serbia is a country in which the freedoms and rights of all citizens are respected. The judicial authority is independent and there must be no abuse, because the only interest of this country is equality and equality for all citizens. As for the proposed candidates, I noticed great biography and professionalism. I, perhaps subjectively, would like to commend Mrs Veljovic's biography, which, apart from a successful career in the judiciary, has also been achieved as the mother of four children. As a mother and as a woman, I know how hard it is to balance a career with a family so no one can stand it. Well, as a woman, I would subjectively, especially praise her biography. Serbia has been through comprehensive judicial reforms over the past ten years, and all in order to bring the new organisation of courts to all the burden of reform, and as a ultimate goal, the development of justice in our country is visible. I would like to commend the work of the High Council of the judiciary, which is crucial and crucial for Serbia to be an effective and functional rule of law. As we know, until the Constitution is changed, the High Council of the Judiciary elects and relieves judges, selects candidates, and through one pragmatic concept proposes the Assembly to elect judges and when selecting judges who are first elected to office, it is one responsible job. The basic arguments for the change of the Constitution in the work of the judiciary are also the fact that the current Constitution leaves a large space for the influence of the legislative and executive authorities on the choice of holders of judicial functions. This influence must not lead to unwanted politicisation of the judiciary. The only goal of constitutional change is not to do so, to achieve maximum independence of the judiciary, i.e. The independence of the courts and the independence of the prosecution. It should be the pursuit of all of us, because it's the only way we guarantee the rule of law as the basic pillar of a modern society. We know that almost all the Member States of the European Union had to change their constitutions in order to successfully bring an end to the process of accession to the European Union, and that is how Serbia in the membership candidate status is in the process of changing the constitution that applies exclusively, I must reiterate that, in the area of the judiciary. This confirmed once again the commitment in implementing the reform processes and fulfilling the activities of the revised Action Plan for Chapter 23. If we have defined ourselves to be part of the EU and accept our commitments, no matter how many times this EU has added new conditions for accession to us, I must also commend the opening of Cluster 4, which covers four chapters on Serbia's EU accession negotiations. This is a major motivation for further reforms in the area of the rule of law and public administration, economy and economy, and on the other hand, the EU has sent a strong message to see Serbia as an equal partner. I hope that in 2022 we will open Cluster 3, although we know that Serbia's degree of coherence with the EU's foreign and security policy is currently 65.55%, then I am sure that Cluster 3 will also be open and I hope that we will successfully prepare for the opening of Cluster 5. Serbia, otherwise, has clearly defined objectives concerning and combating organised crime and contributes to co-operation with EVROJAST. We in the Assembly last year adopted this Agreement and thus further strengthened capacity in this fight. Special courts dealing with organised crime are also open in Novi Sad, Belgrade, King and Nis. In a few sentences, I would refer to the change of the Constitution in the area of justice where it is intended to abolish the existence of a trial three-year term for judges and deputy public prosecutors who are first elected to serve as judges, i.e. Public prosecutor's office. This was previously criticised by the Venice Commission in 2007. Also, the trial mandates for judges have been criticised by the Serbian Academic Community and the professional public. By adopting constitutional amendments, all judges and public prosecutors who are elected thus receive permanent judicial office, and that is one of the postulates of the Venice Commission, means the continuity of judges, and the other is the unmovableness of the judge. In practice, this means that future judges will not be able to move to another court, for example for the Supreme Court in the King, especially if the court they are elected is abolished. As for the Venice Commission, it gave a positive opinion in half of October on the draft constitutional amendments that we adopted in the Assembly, although we know that the constitutional reform process was still in 2006 when the Venice Commission sent a series of objections to the Constitution that was then adopted, we came to the conclusion that we now have a positive opinion from the Venice Commission. It's just one confirmation that we worked in one responsible way. The writing of constitutional amendments includes all the factors of society. So, I think that all the confusion that came about the adoption of constitutional amendments, about the adoption of the referendum law, came only from those who might not understand why we were changing the Constitution, specifically, I said, in the area of the judiciary. It is one of the first steps towards harmonising our legal system with the European but most important step towards achieving our ultimate goal, and that is the rule of law. The participation of our delegation led by Parliament President Ivica Dacic in the work of the Plenary session of the Venice Commission is very important, as a direct contact has been reached and it has been discussed in an equal manner. A single Serbia in voting day will support the proposed candidates. In its work and functioning, the Unique Serbia has always pointed out that it is an independent judiciary and, of course, judges and prosecutors who are elected and who must be independent and independent of one of the conditions guaranteeing the rule of law, which is one of the essential guarantees for the normal life of our citizens, and it needs all political parties, regardless of whether they belong to the authorities or to the opposition, to be the key to programme and political action. We should be focused on the life of an ordinary citizen, whether he lives in the centre of Belgrade or within Serbia. It is one of the main postulates of the Single Serbia programme. For all of this and for Serbia's desire to be a country that can be praised, as so far, that any impact on Serbia's judiciary is completely excluded in the future, in the voting day, we will support the proposed candidates, as well as all points on the agenda of today's sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11525	I would like to thank the vice president of the National Assembly. The word has a People's Messenger, Deep King.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11526	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I think it is appropriate that at the very beginning of my presentation, and for the decision to suspend the office of the Public Prosecutor in the Great Plan and the functions of the President of the Administrative Court, Mrs. Slavica Ivanovic, I congratulate you on the completion of the working century and on obtaining conditions for retirement, even if the prosecutor's work concerns, as did Mrs. Jeleni Ivanovic at the election of the Supreme Casation Court, which is the reason for the termination of the functions I mentioned. As for the election of members of the High Council of the Judiciary, my message to them is the same when we elect the Presidents of the Courts, which is to seek to create a firm defence against all illicit pressures and influences on the court, and cannot be a link in the exercise of these influences and pressures, and, of course, to the Presidents of the Court, the responsibility of the members of the High Council of Judges is even greater, since we are talking about a body established by definition with the aim of providing and guaranteeing the independence and independence of judges and courts. Therefore, all its members must be strongly turned towards achieving this objective, without any influence on the definition of justice in the judgments of the Court. Also, since the High Council of the Judiciary has a key role to play in proposing judges and generally in taking on justice, all its members must be strongly opposed to nepotism, lobbying, seeking links to progress in the judiciary and so on, because, we will all agree, the only link to access to judicial professions must be knowledge, effort and justice. Somehow, I think the courts can only be one who's far more honest than those who are tried, those who are more professional than other lawyers, wiser than lawyers, independent of influence and insensitive to requests. In this I see the traits of the ideals of the judge that every pretender in the judge's office must strive for. When I say this, of course I'm alluding to today's 25 candidates whose biographies have entered the jury's election. The responsibility of the High Council of the judiciary to answer the question - who are the judges will be even greater if the constitutional changes that have been followed by numerous misinformation about what these changes mean. I notice he's trying to break through the story of changing preambles, but somehow I can't believe someone thinks that Serbia can believe that Ivica Dacic, who as foreign minister, acted as 19 states to withdraw the recognition of independence so-called "independence". Kosovo, which as president of the National Assembly is now visiting the world in the preservation of our territorial integrity, came back from Egypt the other day with the view of their president on frozen recognition, and that he will now call a referendum on changing the preamble! Never, none of the socialists! But to get back to the judiciary. In the context of the need for an effective trial, besides the judges, there is a significant role of both judicial assistants and associates who have recently been in an unspeakable position, since the moss was engaged for a certain time, with very narrow opportunities for advancement, and therefore I would like to commend that in the previous period a large number of judges, precisely from the ranks of judicial associates, as well as the fact that a large number of them have been given a job for a permanent period of time, as observed in all areas, ceases to be a rule. The category of permanent employment in the private sector is increasingly becoming an exception, and this trend can also be observed in the public sector, as contracts on temporary and occasional transactions are used, are extended beyond the time allowed, with a fictitious interruption of one day, all leading to one general existential uncertainty. Let's just say, when I look at my friends, most of them are busy doing the jobs they wanted to do, but none of them have a job for good. They're all engaged. Then I think, how can a young man, if he doesn't inherit, get his own apartment, when from the position of a temporary resident on a residential loan, he can only fantasize? That's why we have a birthmark. That's why we have an eruption of individualism, the predominance of the personal and apathetic young people who in sprint chase their piece into a cake of capitalism. As a socialist, I advocate free education, permanent and secure employment, for state aid in resolving the housing issue. But this race, which is not our natural race, is the undisputed reality of modern life everywhere in the world, not just with us. If so, let it be accompanied by applause for those who run honestly and with punishment for those who do not respect the law and the rules. My generation needs proof that the effort is worth it, it is necessary to prove that there are no shortcuts and easier paths, that there is an efficient, independent and independent court and just judges who are worthy of their work and who, if necessary, will be brave to condemn those who use public funds from the position of the state for private purposes, for example, by abuse of the public procurement system, which is also the topic that my colleague Diana Radovic will be talking about today, and I will thank you now for leaving enough time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11527	I thank the People's Messenger, Deep King. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11528	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Today, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party have spoken on several occasions about the importance, efficiency and independence of the judiciary and I also join such views, stressing that what we have been saying in this Parliament over the past five or six years has to be constantly spoken – the judiciary and the prosecution must be in full independence from both politics and political influences, and also from the influence and splendor, unfortunately, with certain parts of criminal structures, because it must be in the whole area of the Republic of Serbia. And last week, and many times before that, we've instructed here examples of criminal associations, criminal organizations with certain parts of the judiciary, the prosecution and, unfortunately, the police. We spoke, and now we repeat that they are neither worthy of you nor of being in court, nor of being in the prosecution, nor of being in the police. The most damage is done to the Republic of Serbia. They also harm citizens, those against whom, and for the account of corrupt and criminal associations, they work against prominent other citizens, but they do the most damage to both their sectoral professional relationship with associations, the esnafu from which they come, and they do much more damage both to the state and to the ministries from which they come. That is why the obligation and the state, and all of us, is to take great care of who we trust in these positions, because these are the positions through which we look at the whole picture of society and through which we manage the lives of all citizens, and most ordinary citizens, and it must eventually be stopped by anyone who, in the judiciary, uses the police to take his own personal interest, so that for his personal views or for the attitudes and interests of those with whom he cooperates, can carry out lawlessness, thereby bringing one whole system into anarchistic state. As MPs, we will always fight this and demand that the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia be implemented until the end in the entire area of our country, and certainly we will vote out of these proposals as we believe we should vote and value everything these candidates have done in their current career, and most of all this concerns their judicial and prosecutorial integrity and competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11529	Thank you. The time foreseen for your parliamentary group has been spent. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11530	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about the choice of holders of judicial functions. It is the holders of judicial functions who decide on someone's right and who, as a judicial authority, aim to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, there can be no discussion in the National Assembly when we talk about justice without touching those shameful and catastrophic reforms of the judiciary carried out by representatives of the former regime in 2009 and 2010, when nearly 1,000 judges lost their jobs in one day, when these people were left on the street, and many judges cost their health and life. No wonder this happened during the former regime when people such as Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic were run by this country, because the judges were then elected, and everyone in Serbia already knew very well, on the DS municipal boards and the only condition that you would take up some high office in the Serbian judiciary was to become or become a member of the DS. Such a catastrophic reform of the judiciary cost Serbian citizens 11 billion dinars. So, even the EU has characterised the process as something that has been disastrously implemented. Today in Serbia, unlike that period, no judge in Serbia can say that he was invited by anyone from the SNS and told him, for example, what kind of verdict should he make. Today, we can freely say that, as far as SNS is concerned, the judiciary in Serbia is absolutely independent. This is also evidenced by two examples from 2021, when we had two convictions, one against President Aleksandar Vukic and one verdict against city official Goran Vesic. So anyone who claims Serbia's verdicts are passed by the dictatorship of the government is either lying or perhaps thinking about the period until 2012, because the fact is that the judiciary was not independent until 2012. If the judiciary were independent then, so someone from that judiciary would have to ask Dragan Gilas a question -- how could it be that after just a few years, how long did he spend in office as mayor of Belgrade, he gets so rich, he gets millions now in his private accounts? Honestly, I don't know which country that's possible in without anyone asking you anything at all. Meanwhile, the same ones who gained millions of dollars in torture and the misfortune of this people, led by Dragan Gilas, attack President Alexander Vukic, with the aim of, above all, to cover up all their misdeeds and to try in the future to carry out those misdeeds, which they had carried out by 2012, again, and of course, with the goal of earning even more money, because they were only interested in money, and that was the only thing they were interested in and the time they exercised power. And everything they do today, absolutely, has nothing to do with environmental science or environmental protection. In contrast, the SNS party that came from the people, which is returning to the people, and that is why President Aleksandar Vukic went to talk to our people, to our people, to our hosts. That is why we have met the people, because we want to, and that is our goal, to solve with the people all the problems that possibly the people in Serbia have, to do so together with them. This is what Serbian citizens see very well and understand well. The Tikun clan of Dragan Gilas will stand a chance in the April 2022 elections, and I am sure that citizens will make it clear to them in these elections what they think about their thieving and treasonous policies, because they do not forget the citizens of Serbia that it was those who closed Serbian factories, who conducted robbery privatisations, that those people who destroyed the Serbian military, the Serbian judiciary, left half a million Serbian citizens on the street without a job, to fill their pockets and open secret accounts around the world, and for the Serbian people and for Serbia always cared, just as they now care about both environmental and environmental protection. Major damage to our country in recent weeks has been caused by roadblocks, and now everyone in Serbia can clearly see that the protests have a purely political background, with the goal of producing violence, that such people are re-emerged by some colored revolution in Serbia without, of course, the political will of Serbian citizens and without elections. I have to say that we're proud of what's happened in Belgrade, despite the things I'm talking about, there's no time for ugly pictures to go into the world, like this happened. in Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Great Britain and so on. Here, first of all, I mean our police relationship to the protesters. As far as Rio Tinta is concerned, in order for the citizens to understand, we have repeatedly stressed here that nothing in Serbia will happen, no decisions will be made until the people ask themselves the same question. We ask the citizens, we talk to our people, we want to solve problems with them, while this same Dragan Gilas in 2004 and 2017 said that the Rio Tinto project was great for Serbia, that this is a new developmental opportunity, and today it speaks differently, with Albanian lobbyists Viola von Kramon and similar ones, exclusively with the goal of bringing down both the Serbian state and the violent way out of power, Alexander Vukic. So, they call for protests exclusively for those who want to prevent Serbia's progress and development. We are in a situation today, and that citizens must know, it has never been before, that we are building 10 new highways, and that is precisely the policy of development and progress, both in the economy and in all other areas and in the area of environmental protection supported by citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the vast majority. Last Saturday, everyone had a chance to see former regime representatives counter-terrorism people on the streets of Belgrade, conduct violence and beat up innocent citizens. And this is the destructive policy of Djilas, Marinika Tepic, the same ones who declare the Serbian people and who tell the Serbian people that they are a genocide people. I can't imagine at all that anyone can think that such people can fight for the interests of this people, so people who speak for the Serbian people that it's a genocide people. I claim that such people cannot fight for the interests of this country and this people. Accordingly, we ask ourselves, I think with the right, why violence, why the blockade, why the protests and the anxiety when the elections are in three months, and we will see in the elections who has the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? The Serbian Progressive Party was given the opportunity and trust to manage this country in 2012 and we in the 2012 election process did not prevent anyone from free movement, we did not beat up innocent citizens, we did not invite foreigners to interfere with our country's internal affairs, we did not complain about electoral conditions, we were running exclusively with plan, programme, policy. And that's what the citizens understood, and that's why they trusted the SNS to manage Serbia since 2012. And all that we promised, we basically realized everything, and we're going to try to do even better in the next period. Serbia today is the country that has the fastest growing economy in Europe and a stable dinar course. The unemployment rate is at a historic minimum. The highest investment is now coming to Serbia compared to all countries in the region. Citizens today trust our institutions. And we will continue to promote things in the area of the rule of law, so that we never get the mistakes that happened to the former regime especially in the area of justice. We are now going to the citizens of Serbia with clear results that we have achieved since 2012 and now we are going to the citizens with the plan and programme "Serbia 2030". The goal is to provide citizens with what they deserve most, which is a better standard of living, to keep fighting and to protect Serbian state and national interests and, of course, to move things into the field of environmental protection where we have indeed achieved in the previous period, I can say freely, envious results. It's all the opposite of the policies of these Gilasovians and the false environmentalists who destroyed Serbia while the tycoon held all the media in his hand and while he was setting up jobs with Rio Tint, and these are, therefore, free to say, the most ordinary hypocrites and the citizens of Serbia should know. Honestly, I can't believe that in 2021 we have some people who believe in spontaneous mass demonstrations without the influence of foreign intelligence services and power centers, media stations and the like. I want to take the opportunity to tell these other Serbs that no colored revolutions in Serbia will always be asked in Serbia in the future only by Serbian citizens in elections, not pathological liars, such as Marinika Tepic and those whose political programme comes down to hate, violence, exclusively towards President Aleksandar Vucic's family, and that is the only thing they are running for next elections. I am convinced that in the next April 2022 elections, citizens of the Republic of Serbia will give absolute and unhinged support to SNS and President Aleksandr Vukic, as this is the only guarantee that Serbia will continue its economic progress. It's the only guarantee that new factories will be opened, hence new jobs. It is the only guarantee that we will succeed adequately and effectively to protect the spray of state and national interests. That is why it is very important to tell young people from this place not to fall for the lies of tycoons, politicians, other Serbs, that they do not stand in line at the protests with Natasa Kandic, with Briana Brkovic, Marinika Tepic and others, because these people are not interested in any environmental or environmental protection. These people are only interested in seeing Serbia that is humiliated, to see destroyed Serbia and to see Serbia on its knees. All these protests are something that has already been seen, which happened in the previous period and aim to push Serbia into a huge economic and political crisis, because they know that with Aleksandra Vukic Serbia is in safe hands and that it simply won't allow it. They can't forgive Alexander Vukic for having managed to get the spray state to be today's strongest and most powerful and economically and politically in the last 50 years. They cannot forgive him for effectively fighting for Serbia's state and national interests, especially in Kosovo and Metohija and Republika Srpska. Our task is to continue to strengthen the additional Serbian state in all other areas together with the people. For all of us in the SNS, it is a huge responsibility to continue, to endure in that fight and not to bow down to the worst, to those who want to destroy Serbia, to come back to power with the goal of stealing, and then, once again, when it is difficult for this people to flee to Romania, Hong Kong, to Mauritius and where their secret accounts are. For the end of my presentation today, I just want to tell them that we will not withdraw from the worst and that we will continue the fight to build even stronger Serbia. I must say that neither Djilas nor Marinika Tepic, nor Brian Brkovic, Natasa Kandic, and similar to them, because the only foreign currency of that second-serbity, their only policy is the worse for Serbia, the better for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11531	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11532	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Kovac, the esteemed Mr Pantic, fellow Members and fellow MPs, although today's agenda points, which relate to the decision-making of a particular public function, often seem to be formal, this is a good opportunity to talk today about the importance and role of these bodies, the institutions they have for our state system. Today, the National Assembly, in addition to the election of judges, in addition to the decision on the election of judges, which was discussed by distinguished colleagues from the SPS Group Tom Phil and Dubravka Kralj, should take the decision to suspend the role of two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, as well as the decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. As regards the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, it is good to recall the competence of this Commission. The competences of this Commission are set out in the Public Procurement Act, which is why I am also precise in the public procurement process, which concerns all sectors of society and economy. It is particularly important here that the whole procedure be conducted in accordance with the general principles and general standards. I mean the principle of economic and efficiency, the security of competition and the prohibition of discrimination, but also the security of transparency of the whole process. Of course, the principle of equality between economic operators is also important, as well as the principle of proportionality. There is no need to specifically explain how significant the public procurement sector is for economic development. The economic development of our country thus fosters strengthening competitiveness, but fostering a competition, as well as strengthening production. This is especially important because production is experiencing its valorisation only on the market. What is important for each market is that there is good and healthy competition that allows the consumer to choose, above all the right to choose the cheapest product, then the right to choose the best quality product or perhaps even for the best price and quality ratio. In this respect, the health market is encouraging for all market chain participants. Of course, when it comes to the agenda we are talking about today, which is spending public funds on the purchase of the necessary products, services or goods, the responsibility of public authorities is particularly high. Therefore, the Law on Public Procurement and precisely defined all the conditions, all procedures, all the criteria relating to the public procurement process itself, and above all, we are referring to the rights of the bidder, as well as its obligations, as well as all the models of their protection. Therefore, the rights and obligations of all participants involved in the procurement process. What is particularly important on our way to the EU is that our legislation in the area of public procurement is in line with the legal assets and standards of the EU. I will only remind you that Chapter 5 relating to public procurement is the first chapter to be opened in 2016. I am saying this because this confirms that we have provided a quality legal framework, i.e. quality legal protection and the safety of all participants, especially the bidder. The very importance of the subject of public procurement, i.e. the public procurement sector, is because it is a complex and demanding area, primarily because there is and, unfortunately, a great possibility of corruption or illegal positioning of certain bidders. All of this can lead to ineffectiveness, even illegal use of budget funds when it comes to public procurement. This is why it is important to repeat by who knows that transparency and legality of the whole procedure are crucial for every legal state, or for any country that is responsible for spending the resources of all its taxpayers. In this respect, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures is important because it is an independent body with great powers, it is an independent body with large mechanisms and, of course, legal protection of bidders, but also all other participants in public procurement procedures. In addition to the decision-making by appeal, the Commission has the possibility to impose a penalty and initiate a misdemeanour proceedings against participants when it is assessed that the Public Procurement Act has just been violated. It is therefore important that all the members we elect in this Commission be competent, this Commission must be impartial, uncorruptional, but first and foremost responsible for its work. It is also supported by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when we consider the annual report of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, in this high House, we had the opportunity to consider the reports of this Commission for 2019 and 2020 at the plenary session. That the Republic Commission is working in accordance with the law and is working in accordance with all regulations adopted by European standards, the European Commission also confirms in its annual reports. We also had the opportunity to consider them at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is therefore important that this committee is working fully and that, after the decision is taken today, we vote on the termination of the functions of the two committee members due to the time they have been elected, as soon as possible and initiating the procedure for a new election. When it comes to the second decision concerning the election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, it is also important to highlight the importance of this body for the functioning of the National Bank of Serbia as the Central Bank. The role of the National Bank in the field of price stability and in the field of macroeconomic stability has been particularly reflected at the time of the Kovida-19 pandemic when the overall and economic and social and health picture of the whole world has been changed. Of course, these influences did not bypass our country either, but thanks to the good macroeconomic fiscal policy of foreign investment, as well as the measures to tackle the consequences of Kovid's economy and the population that the government of the Republic of Serbia has implemented, Serbia has managed to ensure not only macroeconomic stability and monetary stability, but also economic growth. What is the fruit of such a policy, in which the National Bank of Serbia plays a significant role, is also an increase in foreign reserves, and the latest data says that in November foreign exchange reserves increased by 175.3m euros, much more than last month. Also, monetary stability and foreign reserves are a significant factor in the overall development of a single country. A significant factor in overall stability and security, which provides the state with good development prospects, but also provides the state with quality investments, both domestic and foreign. In that sense, I believe that the National Bank of Serbia as well as all the authorities within it are doing extremely well, and on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to commend their work, and thus also to say that our parliamentary group today will support all the proposals for decisions that are in order and that we have talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11533	I thank the MP Diana Radovic. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11534	The aim of the regulated state is to operate well and to divide the authorities into legislative, executive and judicial, and the relationship between these three branches of government should be based on mutual verification and balance. This means that even the judicial authority cannot be segregated from the system itself. It belongs to pillars that are independent, and their decision can only be questioned by the competent court within the prescribed time limit and perhaps even more importantly, judges must be independent, which means that any inappropriate influence on the judge in the exercise of judicial office is prohibited. Constitutional reform is actually a necessary and important step that should lead to significant reforms in the area of justice. The amendments to the Serbian Constitution in the justice work were prepared in 2018 with the help of the Venice Commission, but were not adopted then. The process continued in 2020 so that the final Act of Change of the Constitution would be adopted at a session of the National Assembly on 30 November 2021. It is also very important that transparency is prescribed by law in the preparation of the referendum, which will take place on 16 January 2022. A recent RIK session, as the competent Commission, under the Law on Referendum, adopted a decision on the establishment of a text that will actually provide official information on the Act on the Amendment of the Constitution. On the basis of Article 26. The referendum law, the text on what constitutional provisions are being amended, must provide accurate, objective information to citizens on issues, i.e. the Act on which the referendum is to be decided, to publish it on the official website in the media and very important, to leave it to citizens at the address of the residence. The media is obliged to provide equal conditions for advertising to parties who advocate different responses to the referendum. The referendum, scheduled for January 16th, is due to address the issue that exclusively concerns changes in the judiciary. The aim is to ensure greater efficiency, independence and accountability of the judiciary, better protection of citizens' rights and strengthening the rule of law. The Constitutional Amendment Act provides for additional constitutional guarantees for the independence of the judiciary and judges, guaranteeing the continuity of the judge's office, which would mean that the election to the first judicial post of three years is lifted, would already take place from the elections to the completed working century. Judges, Supreme Court presidents and VSS elected judges, chief public prosecutors and public prosecutors are elected by the High Council of the Prosecutors and the planned change ensures greater independence and responsibility of the public prosecutor's office. As representative of the SDPS, I think it is of great importance to keep talking about raising civil awareness, about the importance of the participation of citizens in social life, as a form of direct democracy. It is also important for citizens to understand that it is very important for them to come to the referendum on 16 January and to determine whether they are for judicial reform. In fact, the voice of the public and the people must be decisive when it comes to not only constitutional changes but also important social issues. In addition to the judiciary, today's debate also discusses the decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS. The Board of Governors of the NBS shall consist of five members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the competent committee. The term of office of members of the Council shall be five years, with the possibility of a re-election. In this regard, the proposed candidate was first elected in 2012 and for this and December 2016. The re-election of the proposed candidate indicates that his work so far has been good, that he has given certain results and that is why what is good should not be changed. Thanks to the rich work experience in this area, I am sure it will also make a full contribution to the work of the NBS in the future. Speaking of the work of the NBS, what is already seen is the preserved macroeconomic stability of the country. In history, these periods of macroeconomic stability were not common, and even when they occurred, they did not last very long. The success of this stability has undoubtedly arisen as a result of the successful stabilisation of the dinar course, which in the conditions of the weakened economies of all countries caused by the pandemic is not an easy task. This means that as a state, we are ready to enter the expected economic crisis and have managed to ensure flexibility during the period of overall closure and reduction of economic activity. In addition, the NBS recognized very early the need to introduce a modern IPS system, i.e. an instant payment system, which was introduced even before it was introduced by the European Central Bank. In addition, the fact that over three million transactions have been made during the emergency situation has been made to this system, and even countries in the environment, or countries in the region, have provided assistance in introducing such and similar systems as neighbouring Northern Macedonia. I did not talk about the proposed candidates, believing that actually the VSS, or the NBS, institutions that as independent in their work, are also responsible for identifying the best professional associates. In that sense, SDP MPs will support the proposed candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11535	I thank the MP, Danili Veljovic. The word is made by MP Mladen Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11536	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are discussing very important decision proposals - the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, the selection of VSS members from the order of judges of the Court of Justice, the proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the Public Prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plan, the proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the President of the Administrative Court and the motion for a decision to suspend the role of two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement Procedures, as well as a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. As I said, we are discussing very important proposals for a decision, the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office and the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the VSS from the order of judges of the Court of Appeals. So, two very important decisions that I'm going to put my focus on. According to the 2006 Constitution, judges are elected by MPs in the Assembly for the first three-year, so-called trial period, and then elected by the VSS for a permanent term. Prosecutors are proposed by the government to the assembly, while deputy prosecutors are elected to the Assembly for the first term of three years after being elected by the State's chief prosecutors for a permanent term. According to the current 2006 Constitution, although VSS and DVT are elected by judges, i.e. deputy prosecutors, the members of the two judicial authorities are elected directly or indirectly by the National Assembly, i.e. We as the Messengers of the people. At first, I have only one sentence to say for a referendum on the change of the Constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not change either because of KIM or because of Rio Tint, and it must be clear to the citizens of Serbia. The opposition is trying to spin, pick up some political point, spin stories about the change of the constitution, but respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is not true and do not fall for such stories, first of all because they are told by those yellow, tycoons of the former regime, Đilas, Jeremic, Tadic, who told their stories long ago. So, the positions of the profession, but also of the EU, are that it is necessary to exclude the National Assembly from the process of electing judges and prosecutors, thus achieving greater independence of the judiciary. Instead of 11 members elected by the Assembly, the VSS will have 10 members, five of whom elects the Assembly from the ranks of prominent lawyers and five elect judges, and the State's chief prosecutor becomes the High Council of Prosecutors, which will also make up 10 members, five of whom elects the Assembly from the two-thirds majority of prominent lawyers and five elect prosecutors. I must also refer to this new strategy for the development of the judiciary for the period from 2020 to 2025, which is the continuation of the previous strategy for the five-year period and the continuity of further improving the efficiency of the judiciary. The strategy was developed in line with Serbia's further EU accession process, as well as in order to strengthen the rule of law, the availability of justice and legal certainty. Also, the Action Plan for Chapter 23, at the same time as the Action Plan for monitoring the implementation of the strategy, allowing full compliance of these two important frameworks, which direct the work of the judiciary in the coming period. Serbia's government has provided enough funds to build new court buildings, so more completely new buildings have been built over the past few years for the work of criminal courts or have been renovated. Certainly the largest investment by the Serbian government in the previous period, I can say in the past 30 years, in the judicial infrastructure is the complete reconstruction of the Court of Justice in Belgrade, then in Kragujevac and many others. I must remind the citizens of Serbia that a radical reform of the judiciary was implemented in 2009 and 2010 during the former yellow regime and Tadic's minister, Snezana Malovic, and when over a thousand judges were left out of work in one day and on the street. Such a failed judicial reform cost Serbia more than 11 billion dinars for paying salaries to unselected judges, prosecutors and judicial employees with all costs not paid by 2012. Also interesting is the fact that a number of judges went to law school and began to pursue politics intensively. An example of this is Judge Vladimir Vukinic, former judge of the Special Court, who goes into law, immediately becomes a party member of the People's Party of Vuk Jeremic, so I ask this way – does this mean that he was politically prone to that side and while he was a judge and shared justice? It's hard to believe that only in law enforcement did that political gene work out for him. Imagine, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what lawyer Vladimir Gajic, also a member of the People's Party, Vuk Jeremic, is doing, which calls on citizens not to go to the referendum. I'll only tell you who he was in the past. Vladimir Gajic, a member of the People's Party, Vuk Jeremic, was the director of the company International CG, the daughter of former Genesis, who was arrested in police action over malfeasance, which damaged the state budget by more than 22m euros. He estranged an illegal plot of construction land of 1.2 hectares in Block 20 in New Belgrade and sold it without an open tender and built 25,000 squares of buildings on the property. The relevant member of the People's Party encouraged one of the directors to sign an annex contract providing that thousands of squares of business space are still being sold below market value. The annex was signed with the unauthorized consent of the Privatisation Agency signed by Ljiljana Mladjan, director of the Agency's Legal Affairs Centre at the time. That's what these Armenians, Gilasi, Tadics and other yellow tycoon octopus did. Serbian citizens never forget the time when Djilas, Jeremic, Tadic and other DOS fraud former regimes harassed Serbia and sold out the whole country to us. We won't let them do that anymore. Serbian citizens are smart people and you can't double-cross them. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11537	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Violeta Okokolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11538	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today the proposal for a decision on the selection of judges that we first elected to a judicial office, and indeed from the material that we have obtained for this session, we can see that the biographies of candidates are in place and that the persons we choose for the judicial functions are really persons who not only meet the conditions for performing this very important function but have so far gained experience has shown that they are ready for the first time to sit in a judge's chair. Before sitting in a judge's chair, it is very important that the candidates know that three key conditions are for performing a judicial function – independence, independence and impartiality. It is these conditions that are key in order for our country's legal order to remain protected, and the judicial authority continues to perform its basic role, which is to protect citizens and decide on their rights and obligations. In addition to these conditions, the judges should know that they are also responsible to the National Assembly for respecting the laws that are being passed here in the National Assembly, but also to the people because all the judgments they make on behalf of the people. Being a judge is an honor, but at the same time a great responsibility and obligation because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect you to judge by justice and never violate those fundamental postulates of judicial authority, which is that all citizens are equal before the Constitution, regardless of religion, race, party or nationality, and all deserve to be treated equally before the Constitution. As someone chosen by the people and who draws legitimacy from the electoral will of the people to speak in the National Assembly on various topics, and also on the subjects of the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, it is important for future judges to know that as politicians do not belong in the chair, judges are also not the place in politics. And politics shouldn't be dealt with, because that's why they're not chosen by the people. If already, they want to deal with politics honestly and honestly at the end of the day to resign to a judicial post, to run on their own or in front of some political option and to check how much support citizens really have and thus gain the legitimacy to talk about different darknesses, and ultimately about politics. Everything else is abuse of judicial function, and we have seen these abuses and how much in some past period. Is it abuse of the judge's office or freedom of speech, as it all comes down to freedom of speech today, whatever topics anyone is talking about, when a judge of the Court of Appeal without the approval of the President of the Court is hosting a political show and making a political promotion of Dragan Gilas, I leave it to the citizens to assess. But it is important to me that future candidates i.e. The future judges, and today's candidates know, as VSS representatives should know, that it is necessary to establish moral principles for selecting judges so that we do not get into a situation where politics is dealt with by those who are not elected by the people. We have repeatedly disputed here in the National Assembly some proposals for candidates to elect judges, but also the president of the courts, precisely because of lack of moral principles, because of lack of ethics, because of disrespect for justice, and ultimately because of abuse. As a matter of fact, I am talking a lot about constitutional changes and we are just going to talk in some future period and about steps that should contribute to a more effective judiciary, but not constitutional changes in themselves and enough, nor are constitutional changes a magic wand that should contribute to the regulation of the situation in the judiciary that has collapsed for years of Democratic Party power. And after constitutional changes, the work of the judges will depend heavily on the moral principles of judges who are elected for judicial functions and will be directly responsible for the members of the VSS. I can't help but recall what moral principles have been delegated by judges during the Democratic Party's power, and I can't help but recall the disastrous reform of the judiciary in 2009 and 2010, whose consequences are still felt today, and we really shouldn't be surprised that we're really in a position in the judiciary for a serious change. A French writer is very nice, I would say, exactly – it is the duty of the judge to judge and their craft to postpone the verdict. A lot of people know their duty, and they only do their job. In this manner, I will tell future judges that the duty should be understood as an honor, which is what the judge function really is and that through more effective judicial proceedings we provide citizens with a more effective judiciary. So it is up to you, future judges, to your duty, to your responsibility and to your honor first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11539	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11540	Thank you, dear President-in-Office, Mrs. Kovac. The Honorable leadership of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the distinguished representative of the High Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, at today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about very important issues, very important elections in various state bodies, but we are also talking about the election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. I am convinced that the NBS and the committee responsible in the Serbian Parliament, the Finance Committee, the budget and the control of public spending have made the right, good decision and that they have chosen a member who will indeed contribute to the development of our monetary system. I'll definitely support that decision. As for these ongoing macroeconomic movements, I would say that macroeconomic developments during 2021 were significantly more favourable to the initial design of that fiscal strategy of the previous year and the Budget Law, GDP was led by construction, industrial production, and also by the growth of export volumes. Good production dynamics through the effects of foreign direct investment are the success policies of the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic. The creators of these economic policies are constantly working on measures aimed at further accelerating economic activity, preserving jobs, creating new jobs and maintaining overall macroeconomic stability. In addition, we had a package of economic measures that was implemented during 2021, which directly affects the growth of the liquidity of economic operators and the relief of this business. Starting from the movement in the international environment, as well as from more favourable current trends in domestic economic activity, from expected and taking into account the effects of measures taken to support the economy and the population, the 2021 GDP projection and for the following year is revised by 1%, from 6%, to 7%, depending on the methodology used by this percentage, or GDP growth may be significantly higher. If you look cumulatively and for the past and for the current year, we are in the top three European economies when the GDP growth rate is at stake, right at the time of the Covid 19 pandemic and the price of food and energy prices on the world market. The responsible management of economic policy and the good situation in the budget allowed the conditions to be created through budget rebalances to continue financing the fight to preserve human health and life and to reduce the negative consequences of the economy caused by the Kovid 19 pandemic. Thanks to these successful results, the successful budget rebalancing of 2022 implies an increase in wages and pensions, an increase in the minimum labour price, GDP growth, but also record allocations for capital investments. Thus, the allocations for capital investments, i.e. capital investments. The level of public debt is under control and will continue with these capital investments and raise wages and pensions. The public debt remains below the Mastricht level, which sets out the criteria for the convergence of the European Central Bank, all thanks to the successful fiscal policy led primarily by the Ministry of Finance, headed by Minister Sinisha Mali, but also the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and of course the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. Since we are talking about the Board of Governors, i.e. selecting a member of the National Bank Governor's Council, I must also refer to the results in monetary policy which is and how equally important is the component of the entire economic policy of a country, of course with fiscal policy. As for monetary policy, economy and jobs are preserved during the pandemic and further growth continues, and the interest rate reference is a basic asset of monetary policy, the basic monetary policy tool is kept at 1% level, which is 1.25% lower than the pre-pandemic period, when it was 2.25% and all with the goal of further encouraging this credit activity with further growth in the participation of dinar loans in total loans, which is good, because this increases the policy of dinarisation. Of course, it's a highly controlled process, it doesn't have to be exaggerated and successfully executed by the NBS. I'd also like to mention another important piece of information for these intradem loans has no interest rates. These are the daily loans for the liquidity of banks and large enterprises. The National Bank of Serbia expects that international inflation will most likely be higher in the next few months than in August. A similar situation in other countries in the environment and in the world, above the upper limit of the target corridor, is in us 3%, 1.5% above or below, but the disappearance of these effects will be expected by this year's growth of world prices of primary products, food and energy in the second half of the following year to return inflation to that target framework, the target corridor, and then to that base level below the central value of the target. But, by disappearing these effects of the new year's growth of world prices for primary products, food and energy, in the second half of the following year, inflation will be expected to return to that target framework, to the target corridor, and then to that base level below the central value of the target, which is an additional indicator that we are integrated economies. We are integrated into all world trends, we are part of the world's economy, members of international organisations, members of transnational organisations, precisely because that price, i.e. the increase in energy, energy prices, the increase in food prices happens on a global scale, and that's why it affects us, is these exotic shocks with us, but that is, I said, an indication that we are part of this global economy, which is very important. The National Bank of Serbia has also acted pro-actively and in the period since the previous meeting, the National Bank Executive Board has undertaken several activities towards maintaining this monetary stability in the Republic of Serbia. Two key decisions have been made. The first decision is to stop organisation of paper purchase repurchases from the values through which banks in the previous period provided liquidity, dinar liquidity at three months in very favourable conditions of 0.10%, and, in addition, at the first repurchase in October, the National Bank of Serbia increased the average executive or weighted rate by as much as 23 base points from the previous 0.11%), as it averaged from the beginning of the year to 0.34%. Inflation 7.5% year-on-year, but still significantly lower, that basic inflation, means the consumer price index at the exclusion of food, energy, alcohol and cigarettes and it is 2.7% which is a good result, and the preservation of and base inflation at a low level contributes to the long-term stability of the exchange rate, which is an anchor of price stability that will be preserved for the next year in the medium term. In this way, pro-actively and pro-actively tightened monetary conditions without a change in the reference interest rate, such as the underlying assets, i.e. monetary policy tools and interest rate corridors, as announced, using in the right way flexibility in the implementation of monetary policy provided by the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. Compared to the beginning of the pandemic, we have increased, unlike many European countries, our foreign exchange reserves by as much as 3.3 billion euros and now grossly 12.8 billion euros, and we also have almost 37 tonnes of gold, which is even 2.5 times more than at the end of 2012. It's another good indicator of what all the previous governors did, what was done during the yellow tycoon regime from 2000 to 2012. We even have 2.5 times more gold than we did at the end of 2012. This is one great piece of information. This means that the National Bank of Serbia acts proactively under the terms of the Covid virus pandemic – 19, in conditions of increasing the price of energy and food on the world market and timely and timely measures with this proactive policy, with responsible measures affecting monetary stability in the Republic of Serbia, all thanks naturally to the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, who is very serious, very diligently working very hard to maintain this system properly. I would also like to say that these stable public finances and liquid cashiers, with the excellent co-operation of the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Serbia, make this perfect energy, a perfect combination, or perfect synergy, better said. Of course, there are other instruments to maintain a stable monetary policy, namely price stability. These are stock reserves and excises, of course we have more instruments that we can use. It is very important here that this link between monetary policy and price stability is with the price of energy. It stands out, but we have a variety of obscenities telling us about it, and they honor our results. For example, you have Dragan Gilas, I just don't have anything to say about him anymore, we all know what Dragan Gilas did for the Serbian economy, we all know how Dragan Gilas devastated the entire Serbian economy, how he destroyed the factories, how the city budget was used, so I'm going to say, as my own bank pig. Someone who has devoted his entire political opus to the acquisition of huge wealth, huge money, and that is exactly the people's money, means the account of Serbia's budget, at the expense of the people. He did the world about and then he and his follower Nikezic, otherwise the Count of Cass Mecon, and this Nikezic family and how she was involved in various affairs. We all know what happened to Azotar, we all know what they've been doing all these years. They tell us about the economy, about politics, about the price of energy, about electricity, I think it's very funny, very comical that these people are even talking about how someone should work today, how someone should behave, how they should talk about the results. These are people, I say, who have devoted their entire political opus to the acquisition of vast wealth, fulfilling exclusively their particular political interests. They were not interested in energy, health environments, hospitals, schools, kindergartens, roads, infrastructures, Serbia's international reputation in the world, Serbia's security, or the stability of the entire financial system. They didn't care about anything at all, they just wanted to know that as much money as possible and that's it. Now, this same machine brain of Dragan Gilas, that brain believes that despite what was key, it is freely possible to say, the key, or main destroyer of the Republic of Serbia during that period, the same machine brain believes it will win 25.5% of the votes in the parliamentary elections of its party with its coalition partners, and that there will also be a second round in the presidential elections. Mr. Dragane Gilas, you feel free to believe in those dreams, that is, those fairy tales, and on April 4th, that is, on the night of April 4th, you will wake up from that winter dream and you will realize that the relationship is completely different for you. I thank and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11541	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11542	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear member of the VSS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will support all the proposals of all the points of today's agenda, given that there have been no objections to the selection of individual function holders by the MPs coming from those backgrounds, or local self-government to which the elections relate. To begin with, I will say that I read yesterday, the day before yesterday, a statement by one of the leaders of the former government, and now the opposition, that with constitutional changes in the judiciary should wait, i.e. The referendum is scheduled to be postponed for 16 January, until a new Assembly is established after the April elections that will be decided in some other circumstances, they are likely to think of some other composition of this house qualified that this Assembly is actually one-party and that it is not good for the one-party Assembly to make such decisions. A very strange statement by those who have exercised power for 12 years, from 2000 to 2012, and not only have they done nothing with recommendations from the Venice Commission to improve the situation in the judiciary, but they have done damage to the invaluable judiciary, whose consequences we still suffer today. The damage is both professional, professional and material, because later on we had to, or the state later had to pay compensation for outstanding earnings to judges and prosecutors. It is truly unusual that the lessons in the field of justice are held by those who, and only they, are never before them and never after them, elections. The proposals for judicial officials did not pass the party authorities. Only at the time of the rule of the yellow mafia did the proposals for judges and other judicial functions go through the DS municipal committees and they had to get consent there and therefore a large cut of judges and prosecutors was done in 2010. So, Marinika Tepic said it would be very good and useful if all that we have already done and the scheduled referendum for January 16th had been postponed until the constitution of a new National Assembly. Now, I'm asking-- what would that change? From my point of view, it wouldn't change anything. First, they themselves know, as the citizens of Serbia know, that their potential to win a third of seats is small, almost impossible, and here all decisions are made in two-thirds. Even in some hypothetical theoretical case, that this united, united patriotic and that other opposition made by the former authorities take over a third of their mandates, does this mean that they do not agree with all the reforms that have been achieved since 2012 until today, which are in line with EU practice and with the recommendations of the Council of Europe advisory body, i.e. The Venice Commission, which is, in fact, the advisory body for democracy through law? What they haven't realized since 2000, i.e. In 2005, 2007, up until 2012, and a necessary condition on Serbia's path to the EU and a necessary condition for the successful completion of the negotiations on Chapter 23, the government did. What do they think they would achieve even if they had the opportunity to influence those decisions with a third of the MPs, or more? I just don't get it. Simply, someone who has sinned, someone who has done so much damage, I mean the entire former government, and not just the lady who has made that statement, have the courage to report and comment on these successful reforms that the Serbian Progressive Party and its coalition partners have managed to carry out and that I am sure they will confirm in the referendum. There is not one party present here in the coalition, there is a large number of parties who have recognised the same common goals and the same common road of arrival, or movement towards that goal. So that the National Assembly has the consent of political parties to implement certain reforms and to pass certain laws does not mean that this National Assembly is one-party. It's one, so to speak, a dirty hoax of ex-government. Because the former government should always be called former power, not just by opposition, because there are also those who have never been in power in the opposition. So what they failed to do, i.e. What they didn't want to do, and they had recommendations from the Venice Commission, we finished a few weeks ago and I'm sure 16 January will be confirmed at the referendum. Indeed, it is about changes that not only underline the independence of the judiciary in the Constitution, but also undermining the personal independence of the judges better than was resolved by the 2006 Constitution. Namely, all those concerns in practice, the afraid judges can suffer certain consequences if they judge in accordance with their expertise and if they make decisions independently, are removed from the amendments we adopt. So the condition that, after three years of trial work, judges are confirmed on the High Council of the Judiciary is removed, because it is believed that a proper pressure can be applied hypothetically to a beginner's judge during the three years. This does not mean that it will be carried out in practice, but it is potentially possible for it to be under certain pressures, so that it is conditioned that it is chosen over and over and over again. As a result, this condition, i.e. that provision of the three-year selection, is hereby abolished, just so that the judge would not potentially be exposed to appropriate pressures during that period. It also contributes to the personal independence of the judge and the part relating to his disciplinary responsibility, i.e. resolution. Instead of vague provisions as well as why the judge can be resolved, and all of this applies to prosecutors, I am now talking about judges, but there are similar provisions for prosecutors, precisely in the Constitution it is defined that the judge can be resolved if he tends to harm disciplinary responsibility in such a way that it offends the reputation of the judicial function or the public's trust in the judiciary. Of course, laws and closer acts would work out precisely, but it needed to be written in the Constitution. Because, you know how, the Constitution is an act that is more difficult to change, and it is not good for a judge whose working life can be 30, 40 years, to be left to the laws alone and only to determine the conditions under which it can be resolved or relocated, because then that means that every majority after four years can change these conditions. Therefore, at the recommendation of the Venice Commission, this is determined by the Constitution, as the Constitution establishes and the conditions under which the judge can be transferred. Because moving or threatening to move, even unsaid, can be a kind of influence on the work of a judge, or an indirect influence on him, so that the Constitution defines that a judge can be transferred to another court only if that court assumes those powers or a large part of the jurisdiction of the judge concerned. So, whether a new court is in place, whether that large part of jurisdiction is transferred to another court, it can only be moved there under these conditions, or provided that it personally agrees to be transferred. So, the objectives of the constitutional amendments that we have brought are to strengthen the judge's personal independence, by removing all those potential possibilities or cunning possibilities of influence on the judge and its independence. It's: relocation, resolution and trial work of three years. Also, the composition of the High Council of the judiciary is, I am deeply convinced from the very beginning, a solution that is much better than this existing one. That this existing solution is not ideally speaking to the fact that we at the National Assembly held the opportunity to challenge sometimes up to a third of the High Council's proposal to elect judges who were first elected to a judicial office. What does that mean? All these candidates got great and wonderful reviews in the courts where they should be elected, all of them passed, all the commissions, all of those high-level judiciary working bodies, all of them here are evaluated by the highest grades, but we and those colleagues who come from local self-government where these people need to work and where they have simply come to other data, that is, the fact that one part of these candidates is not usually worthy of doing the job that they are proposed to do. So, that very fact that we have challenged a large number of proposals from the High Council of the Judiciary says that the way in which the High Council of the judiciary is elected should be corrected. I think the constitutional amendments that we have adopted and that citizens will confirm at the referendum are just doing a reform in this direction, i.e. contribute to the independence of the High Council of the judiciary. Of course, the choice of judges is regulated by law, law and sublaws is important to regulate and the issue of monitoring the work of the judge, the question of quantifying his work, measuring the quality of work, assessing the quality of work, and so on because it will all be important to the future High Council of the judiciary for the assessment of the work of judges. The independence of the High Council of the judiciary also guarantees that four proposals will be voted at the National Assembly of eight, but two-thirds of the majority of MPs, which in a certain situation that may occur in some future or future guarantees, or assumes that around these four proposals, these four lawyers must also agree with the representatives of the position and representatives of the opposition. It is very important to arrange the election of six judges in the High Council of the judiciary who are in fact representing their profession, as they also elect the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. You know, it's not good that, and I think that so far, in some cases, it's been happening, in fact, to be representatives of certain lobbys in appeals courts. So that the law and sublegal acts and some methodology must well establish the way in which these six people who will really represent the profession, who make up the majority in the High Council of the judiciary and which will ensure independence and the High Council of the judiciary and then provide the independence of judges with their work, i.e. their personal independence and their entire judicial system. We know that our judicial system has continued to be burdened with both impassion and family ties and that in these proposals that we have received over the past year, for a year and a half by the High Council of the judiciary, there have been many proposals - for you, for me, for you, for me, that there have been relatives, cousins, cousins, members of the rope and wider family or members of the High Council of the judiciary or the president of the municipal or courts of the higher level. So indeed of these constitutional amendments which are one of the basis for the adoption of laws and other acts that will be decided closer, I expect much and expect full support from citizens in the referendum. And that the Venice Commission isn't someone who wants to hurt us, because I've heard here today comments that there's really no need to trust her, on the contrary, I think she should have a lot of trust and she is an organ of authority. She pointed to the devastating consequences the 2009 constitutional laws will have in the judiciary, when the election of all judges and prosecutors was reset and when all of them had to pass the DS municipal board to be elected to office. So, the Venice Commission also pointed out that, and she said it would be devastating for our judiciary, and that really happened. So I think her instructions are very high-quality and she's very well-intentioned and qualified for advice and in our case. To return to the end again to Mrs Tepic and the former government, I have been disturbed by some statements in media reports these days, that now there is a Sava or Sava, what's his name, invited citizens not to go out on Saturday to protest, roadblocks and roads, and so on, the citizens listened to him. Well, come on, people, let's not replace the thesis, don't let someone who didn't exist in the political life of Serbia and space yesterday, make some size and give him some meaning that doesn't belong to him. Well, the citizens didn't go to the streets and block the streets because the president of Serbia did everything he had to do because he simply felt the energy of the citizens. He visited Upper Weeks, talked to people, talked to other people and his legal advisers. He simply recognized, as he always does best, better than both the government and the MPs. I recognized what to do, what to do, what to do, what the energy of the people is. One law signed, suggested that in one part of the amendments, the other law refused to sign and demanded a longer period of six months for things to be brought into line with all interested parties and public debates. So that the ecological uprising has failed, that the roadblocks and roads have failed, a crossroads, so it is not due to some Sava, or I don't know Janko or Marko, who called on the people not to go out on the streets but rather the president of the Republic of Serbia who is better than anyone to recognise the energy of the people and the will of the citizens at a certain point. I thank you for the time you've given me. Long live the President of the Republic of Serbia! Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11543	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break and we'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11545	I would like to thank Mr. Orlic, the Honorable President, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament. I will try not to repeat in my discussion, which my esteemed colleagues in previous speeches have already discussed certain topics, so I will try to point out what is extremely important to me in the context of the agenda points that have to do with the choice in the judiciary. I will, like every time, repeat the finding that I am, and until the last day, I will repeat it, that I am always happy and happy when we have these agenda points on the agenda. I am convinced that the supervisory role in mutual control of all three pillars of government is extremely important for every country, including for the state of Serbia, we have exactly this schedule of mutual control, rather than everything that comes as a commitment, related to European integration, etc. In a month, we have a referendum on amendments to the Constitution. When we talk about this structure, it basically means that this session and the next one will be the last practice we will have, if the referendum passes in that sense, and if the citizens, who are the supreme authority in terms of the will that we need to carry out here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Their standard and their relationship to the referendum and voice will be an obligation for all of us here and in all other institutions and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let me say, since I really spent a lot of time in Bosnia and Herzegovina in Republika Srpska, that in terms of assessing whether this will be a good decision, I express a great deal of skepticism, because this project, which has been in BiH since 2003 that cannot be compared with the Republic of Serbia, is an international protectorate, but also such a protectorate in terms of judicial reform, led by the international community, one of the Western powers. And the project failed in the opinion of all international relevant factors in the assessment of the situation of the judiciary. If you want, I will take only one fragment of the fight against crime, corruption, organised crime, etc. However, although he would now be making a further analysis out of that angle, personally if I were to plead I would have to say that I am not in favour of such a process. I think it would be hypocritical because here at one of the first sessions when we chose the Government of the Republic of Serbia, its basic foreign-political agenda was European integration. One of the first principles and first principles was EU accession. The European integration process itself means that we have certain rights in the perspective, we also have certain obligations. Since European integration is not the Swedish thing to say, we cannot calculate on this issue and we must close one chapter at a time. I think that even in this context, regardless of what each of us here, may have a personal opinion on a particular issue, all of us who voted for the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the exposures that Prime Minister Brnabic has submitted here, we have both voted for the government and for the exposés, it is not right for us to put our personal position ahead of what was common goal both by the choice of this government and the foreign-political agenda that has a Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I will follow what this previous vote is, but of course we will follow the process that is going in that direction, which means that and the recommendations made by the Venice Commission are on one side of the obligation because our agenda is the same and because the majority will is the way it was. If we were to talk about all this before, on a list that was all the MPs from the SNS, we'd bet our political agenda on these values and on many others, but among other things, on this. And on four pillars of foreign policy, but in terms of European integration we said clearly – we are not calculating. We sent those messages. We run these processes responsibly. Here, in this assembly of parliament that is so controversial, so many different sides, we end up doing an extremely important job for the state and we show responsibility. In terms of the implementation of all of this, I am fully convinced that we will prove credibility, because from the very idea of the programme itself, from the very choice of government, the normative processes that are being conducted here in the Assembly, through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, we have shown that we are not joking with this topic, that we are not calculating in any way, but that we are ready to meet our obligations on the path of European integration, not just for the commitment, but for the path for which we have defined ourselves. So this message, which I have said to myself, I also tell all other colleagues and all those who may be under the impression of creating a public opinion that changes from day to day, so let it begin by social networks, by portals, by media that are anti-state, anti-national, and then see that in a certain way their views are shaped by what may be done to become a majority position at a certain point. I don't think that's right, that it's not the position of personal integrity, that you're changing your attitudes about how public pressure is on a particular issue. And fully convinced, for that reason, that's why I'm in this parliamentary group, the SNS, which doesn't change the attitudes in the context of stories of obligations to be made, and even when they're difficult, or at a certain point, not all the angles and meanings of everything they need to do are seen. On the other hand, our political opponents, I will choose words about them, they have no position on the most important issues. I, preparing for this discussion, have tried to get to the position of our political opponents who, if they manage to pass that three percent famous censorship, will tomorrow be in the benches at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we will have the opportunity to hear it live. But while they're gone, we can refer to their views that exist in the media. And if you see these views, then you see that they have no position on the referendum on changes to the Serbian Constitution, or try to avoid saying what their opinion is. You know, like, they're big Europeans, for the EU, to meet certain obligations, and on the most important issue they have no position at all, but they're trying to lower this Parliament's calling, to tell him that he has no credibility, that he's single-party, so that's why he's going to be against the referendum that's going to be held in a month. You say what you want, but what is your position on this issue, when you sit with certain ambassadors from the Western countries, from the EU, what do you say about that? And as you don't have a say in this matter, or you won't bring it out, and of course it is "yes", do you want to go public, you want to, in any matter, or on a referendum, to create a moment of rebellion, where all those who have completely opposed political views will unite, both in a valuable sense and ideological way, to find some future moment to raise up the dust and unite all those who cannot unite at all, to put in one sack and "babs and frogs" and all those who work against each other, in order to damage the Republic of Serbia, to damage the rule that the Republic of Serbia today has, headed with Alexander Vukic. That policy is very hypocritical, very transparent. You can see it, you don't need to analyze it very much and see that there is no political attitude, as they have no view of the problems that the Republic of Serbia has in KIM with temporary institutions in Pristina, as they do not have a position at this time on a particularly strong attack from all sides coming towards Republika Srpska, because they have no position towards Republika Srpska at all, in the emerging circumstances that change daily and the impact is moving from all sides, but are trying to just criticise our moves that we are making. Since they have no answer to key questions, it is clear that they can only speculate and make different performances on a daily basis, confuse the public of Serbia and try to destroy our credibility. They can't bring it down because we promise to end it. The best indicator of this policy is exactly the policy led by Aleksandar Vucic, which we here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are also manifesting and showing, not only by voting, how they are trying to present it, but also by any discussion that my distinguished colleagues have. Speaking of which, and speaking of the judiciary, I will look back and make another small progress on the story that is related to expectations in the fight against crime and corruption, economic crime, state crime, however you will, which took place in the earlier period of time, the trade of influence and all other possible phenomena that are in the jurisdiction of the prosecution and all other possible phenomena that are primarily in the jurisdiction of the prosecutions that we have on the agenda today in terms of a certain item of the agenda. I'll take one case to discuss, I'll talk about it very briefly, but I'll talk about the case of Hrkalovic, who I see few of whom speak of the case at all. Since I see a lot of speculation being made about this, I would like to factor out certain things, to see what the role of the executive government of the state is, what the role of the media, what the role of the prosecution and the judiciary is in all this. It seems to me that it is very conscious that everything is being put into one sack again and that it is trying to create certain expectations in the public who, first of all, are not legally correct, or against the law, and on the other hand to make a mistake in terms of what needs to be done, in which way it is done and at which times something procedural can be done. First of all, I would say that we have on one side for each affair, for every abuse of official position or trade in influence, first one of the processes that is announced in the media, so the media is speculating on certain issues, etc. So when something appears in some sense to start and process, then they just heighten that kind of story and create the public impression that the process has already been started, or lead investigations, that the prosecution has filed charges, that the indictment has been confirmed, etc. And there's a lot to go on. On the other hand, we must fully separate what is the role and responsibility of the government in the Republic of Serbia, it has taken its responsibility in the sense of all procedures, including this procedure, primarily through the Ministry of Interior, the BIA and all other security agencies, where it has taken all the actions that were necessary to determine the potential acts that were incriminating to be initiated and to be conducted before judicial institutions in order, manner, hodogram and everything else as prescribed by the law. Since the prosecution has a role to play, we could see that the state is the executive government, the Ministry of the Interior, a number of inspectors who spoke about it, who were witnesses, told and did everything they could. In terms of this story, we have everything we've seen in public, not one lengthy criminal act, which one needs in a procedural sense, in a prosecution, in a court of law, in a judge for the previous proceedings to determine, first of all, that something and an extended crime. We, even, have a situation where we have the potential to carry out more prolonged crimes. In order for someone to mark it that way, this process, right here, is where the people of the judiciary are, they should also do what their laws are defined and prescribed, and that's where we come into dissension. We have the public, in the media, the need to make certain things the sooner, the faster they process, the more the story gets done, the police do everything they can, everything the prosecution says, and then some decision comes to the prosecutor, or the judge, and he does all the work according to what's prescribed by the law, and also by his own free judgment and certain evidence, so if you want someone's freedom and release from custody, etc. The address for all these decisions coming from the judiciary goes to the authorities. We will now take another step where everything in the judiciary will end, and the choice of prosecutors, and judges who are first elected, and all responsibility will be on them. When we finish this, since I have a previous experience, the perception of the public will not change in the context of the non-processing responsibility being transferred to the executive, but it will still be this perception as if we are responsible for it. Please, so neither the media can judge, nor can the Ministry of the Interior, the BIA judge any criminal or anyone who acted in a public office yesterday, and misused that because he traded influences that he had in his official duties. That's what justice people can do. We support them here. We have never criticised anyone for individual convictions or prosecution decisions, but it must clearly separate what is whose responsibility. In that direction, I want to conclude the discussion, to say that we as a government, as representatives of the government, as SNS through the ministers we've chosen, have given the exact judiciary to do its job. What are the results of their decisions, both individual and individual responsibilities, as well as total responsibilities, we can see, but we have done our part with honor. We will give them additional incentive, lobbying in this kind of story to pass the referendum, to make them stronger, but don't, please, ever more about this kind of story address for something some prosecutor or judge has made a decision to go to the address of SNS and Alexander Vukic. Therefore, we are strong and responsible, a state-of-the-art party fighting for Serbia's interests. We are ready to take responsibility, we are ready to accept our responsibility, and we cannot accept the responsibility for the work of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11546	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11547	Dear Vice President Orlic, the Honorable Representative of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to understand the choice of judges, I will return to 2000, and we will see in what time we choose judges today. That's one reason. The second reason is that, as in 2000, blockades occur on the streets of Belgrade and Serbia. Let me begin with the quote by Diane Johnston, the famous, who characterized October 5th and after October 5th, what happened. I quote: "On the wings of the people's celebration due to the fall of Slobodan Milosevic, who bordered with drunkenness, Serbia was crushed by the stampede of unprofessional, grampistic and arrogant people, conceited leaders of fictitious parties, self-proclaimed experts, half-holy of all calibers and profiles who promoted themselves to revolutionary winners, and the state and all in the country for their hostages and prey," said the quote, Diana Johnston. You all know who Diana Johnston is, so I don't tell you. Dear People's MPs, these were the results of October 5th. Allow me, now that I'm at 5 October, after 5 October, criminals were introduced into power, or politics. That is what he warned, along with others, and Zoran Mijatovic, Deputy Chief of State Security in a statement to The Hague tribunal on 4 April 2007, when he said, I quote: "I also told Velji Ilic, please, you have brought criminals into politics, Mr Veljo, and you and Vuk Draskovic. It's a fact," finished quote, as you can see. Here, Velija Ilic appears these days, constantly talking and cursing the current power. Let me say, for the sake of younger generations, who are Velja Ilic and the petoctobarci, and besides others, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. For now, I will focus on Velija Ilic, who gave an interview for the New York Times on 9 October 2000. I quote, pay attention, respected citizens: "We have established a team of young professionals, paramilitary units of the Yugoslav Army and young police officers, and we have co-ordinated this with the most elite units of the police force in Belgrade," finished the quote. Dear citizens, does this smell to you, smells like the streets of Belgrade and Serbia, as well as "One of the Five Million" to a colored revolution? Of course it does. After October 5th, the state didn't function, they just took on functions, government institutions, they took on force, that's what they want today. They didn't report the protests. General robbery of social and state property continued. All in all, respected citizens, in 2012, the SNS comes to power, and yet, for younger generations, which are less remembered for birth, and for you, respected citizens, I will remind you of what the SNS inherited. In 2012, she inherited a country that was completely devastated by economic, industrial and infrastructure. You remember that very well. Next, we inherited a country that was safe and without the safety of its citizens. We inherited a land that was totally humiliated. Furthermore, we inherited a country that was without hope and the faith of its citizens in the future. We inherited a land that was without a plan and without a program. We inherited a country with too much debt. We inherited a country with a high unemployment rate, 26%, and today it's at 9%. We inherited the land with the destroyed state institutions. We inherited a country with no international reputation. We inherited a land that was completely satanized, unremembered in the history of mankind. We inherited the country's largest robbery privatisation known in history. We inherited the country with the worst health care in Europe, 26th place, an armyless country. Tadic said, quote - what we need the army to do, the day before yesterday you saw what he was saying. We inherited a country that was on the verge of financial ambition. We inherited a land of destroyed and devastated cultural institutions. We inherited the country with the worst judiciary we're talking about here today. Speaking of the judiciary, respected citizens and respected MPs, judges must be professional, high-level, highly trained and worthy. And that's where we get the problem. Are they high-ranking, are they dressed, are they worthy? I know what you're going to say to me, that they are. How much? Time will tell. They're probably professional and trained. Are they all worthy? It's hard to say they're worthy, most of them are. The question is, what is dignity? Is the same worthy judge from 2000 and this 2021? I'm asking a question to all of us. I ask another question – is it dignity, is the state's modern quality in the post-socialist system, did they determine moral qualities etc? It's all a question of discussion. But when it comes to today's judges that we choose, indeed, by looking at biographies, I believe and claim that they are highly trained and professional, and I hope they are worthy. We're here, so we'll follow. I'm convinced they really are. However, I must say that the former authorities of the DS, Boris Tadic, Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic did not adhere to these criteria when selecting judges, especially after 2000, and especially after 2008 to 2012, when they were implementing so-called. I really say so-called reform. You'll see what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11548	Thank you. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11549	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Pantic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk about the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. The High Council of the Judiciary, based on Article 47. The law on judges, and regarding the decision on the number of judges in courts, announced the choice of judges for the General Court in Backo Palanca, Petrovac in Mlava, the Criminal Court in Negotin, Lazarevec, Rumi and Sombor. These candidates are expected to have expertise, competence and dignity, for the Administrative Court to perform their functions consistently and responsibly which are crucial for the fight against crime and corruption. Serbia, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, is fighting precisely a decisive fight to cleanse our country of all kinds of crime in all segments. The former regime, led by Dragan Gilas, made decisions on judicial staffing at the meetings of its party's municipal boards, thus bringing the judiciary to the lowest branches, where the rule of law left only a phrase, and justice was not in sight. Even today, through the tycoon media, they advocate their punitive justice in the form of terror over all who consider themselves political enemies. The best example for this is the attack on the president of the SNS Information Service, Vladanko Malovic, who, with a british tongue and a sharp mind, exposes tycoons and thieves in the insidious intent to re-destroy Serbia according to the machine-brain business plan, Dragan Gilas. They think they can waver and intimidate Serbia. They made a lot of mistakes. There's no retreat in front of the worst. It is the policy of Aleksandar Vukic, who is sovereignly leading Serbia towards new successes and victories by opening new factories, hospitals, new jobs and increasing the standard of living for all Serbian citizens. Today, when Serbia opened four new chapters on its way to the EU and fought heroically with Alexander Vukic for every part of our beautiful country and that was something that was unimaginable at the time of the yellow tycoon enterprise. Known for their delusions, and not only in lies, fed only by hatred for every success of Serbia, but primarily by the politics of Aleksandar Vukic, these politicians remain remembered for not having even had basic human rights in their time, but also for bread bark. We were only thinking about how to survive the day, and Serbia was just leaving, while the tycoon phalanges were robbing privatisations and devastation of everything they could get their fingers dirty and watch them fill their overseas accounts. The Tycoon octopus only knew that the robbery, and taking care of their children was their last hole in the play, not in their mind. While Dragan Gilas of those children, as well as parents, maternity, pensioners, knew only that he was taking, why would anyone want Serbia to return to the claws of past times, the times of Dragan Gilas, Marinika, Lutovac, Vuk and other hyenas who were stealing Serbia and rewarding themselves with millions of villas and bank accounts, all on the back of the troubled people of Serbia? Now again, therefore, all the forces are unmistakably trying to destroy Alexander Vukic by not choosing the means and even calling for bloodshed, aware that he is their main obstacle, the only branch of the hellish intent of the former regime to re-possess and strangle, grinding, and to the bottom-knit Serbia, which they would manipulate as they wish. The people of Serbia know that, led by Aleksandar Vukic, who has the support of Serbia and the people, and the future of our children is a driver, we win the fight against demons of the past, because defeat is not an option for him. The name and work, courage and sacrifice are written on the pages of Serbian history, those of the brightest, which are uniquely and complexly written together. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11550	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the subject of the judge, we are now selecting judges who are first elected to office and I want that when we choose to congratulate the elected ones, but immediately to say that I am one of those who voted to change the Constitution and that this judiciary is completely independent. I voted "yes" because it is necessary for the country, because it is one of the conditions in European integration and the heavy heart I voted for, and I am not. But if I take the main benefit of agriculture in the EU and that the country should qualify for the EU, become a permanent member of it, that it can use the same incentives in agriculture in the same way that farmers in the EU use it. So you can't slow down two good things, in politics you often have to sacrifice something like in chess, to get something on the other side. I'm afraid that when the National Assembly stops choosing judges, we'll get a "STR" collection. I don't mean all the judges. So there will be smaller or larger independent trades. There are, as some would say in the province, in rural areas, in smaller courts, judicial units, etc., there are a lot of honorable judges, but there are also those where lawyers, individual lawyers order judgments like some lunches, burgers, etc. I've already said that I don't think about all the judges, that most of them are honest and honest, but that there are individuals who function as judges, and how will they be officials if the Assembly doesn't choose them? Mr. Martinovic, I think someone who needs to be a official should be elected by the National Assembly, how will they be officials if elected by the VSS? It's not understandable enough for me, but I'm afraid there's going to be a small and large trade. A team before we had cleared the judiciary of party personnel. You have a lot of judges who are the judges of the former regime. We have not cleansed it, or it has not just been cleansed enough for them to have this kind of independence that they will have when we adopt these constitutional amendments and when they are completely independent of any kind of control in the National Assembly, or when they choose among themselves. Knowing some of the judges, and I have often claimed that in individual judicial units, such as in India, you can make the best DS board by selection, which was made in time by the famous 2009 reform. Anyway, you can't always get everything in politics, you often get what you don't, and some other majority will, and that's why we individual MPs who are against full independence and independence at this point, in the way I've already described, why we voted for it. Politics is like chess, you have to predict victims, you have to sacrifice pedestrians to finally get something, so the state has to agree to some concessions. I'm up to it, for example, on a Polish model. In Poland, it seems to me, the government is choosing judges, but not to go that far, even if the Assembly could do so, but in a situation where the judge's office is permanent, when it's almost impossible to resolve it, when it interferes with politics and affairs that aren't his, even if it violates laws like Judge Majic, so when it releases the pedophile, it says, you know what, all judgments are legal, so the legal ones that have freed the Gjilan group, when it's almost impossible to replace any judge for mistakes, injuries, so let's say in Gjilan it was killed dozens of Serbs, hundreds are tortured, etc. In the end, it turned out that the Albanian insider who testified and who was in the army was not good enough to judge the worst possible terrorists who committed a crime against Serbs. With this Majic, I didn't know if he was a Serbian or American judge, does he want Americans who were patrons of all these in a certain way, patrons of all these crimes that took place after KFOR entered our southern province, to use this judge to amnest them from such a kind of responsibility or to judge criminals against the Serb and non-Albanian population that were apparently committed? To the judges who will be elected I recommend that they do everything these judges choose from the Democratic Party list do not do - therefore, to share justice, not injustice, to punish the guilty, to protect the innocent and to pay special attention to the appearances in our society when you have unregistered political parties, so to speak. NGOs that have actually grown into political parties just don't have enough founders, otherwise they deal with politics, exclusively financed from the outside. We, who have registered political parties, are forbidden to finance ourselves on the outside. I don't know how anyone can let "We don't strangle Belgrade" go to the election, which publicly states that they received money from foundations from abroad. How can someone participate in an election race if his organization has received money from outside? Each country would be extremely sensitive if foreign countries were involved in their election processes, given through money or through the media. Also, I don't understand why our judiciary and prosecutors tolerate, say, Solak and Gilas? Imagine a politician who owns the media, he was already the owner of the press, and now he's obviously also the owner of an electronic media or he's a partner with the School who owns a cable operator with no idea how many hundreds of channels or with 30 channels owned by him. I also don't understand this European Union which, behold, in Poland, the Government can choose judges, with us it must also be outside the Assembly. I don't understand why in Europe it's mostly forbidden that operators, broadcasters can't have their television channels, and in 2014, we were returned to the Electronic Media Act on request to approve that operators can be media owners, and let's say RTS had to separate production, broadcast programs from distribution network from transmitters? So I don't understand much about the European Union. Obviously, there are many corrupt politicians in the European Union who, in certain ways, interpret some of the rights that citizens of the European Union have and some of the rights that we have. I don't understand how we're going to allow foreign television, which is "N1", "New", and there's "Grand", "Sinemania", there's 30 channels of Solak, how are we going to let us say, here we have non-registered parties, we have unregistered TV in Serbia, how are we going to let Luxembourg TV participate in Serbia's election programme? So, this direct interference of foreign television from foreign countries in the electoral process in the Republic of Serbia and I do not quite understand that we are going to allow it, and these TVs are not at all cross-border, are not foreign, but are breaking the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on the Protection of Competition, the Law on Advertising, and our prosecutors are watching it peacefully, regardless of the reports that have been sent to them, which probably end in drawers. So judges can't even get to the point where they have to judge whether they're breaking the Law on Electronic Media, whether they're breaking the Convention on Cross-border Television, whether they're breaking the Law on Competition and whether they're breaking the Law on Advertising and thus taking part in the marketing market on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because Article 27 says that these foreign cross-border television can only broadcast original ads from that country in which the programme is broadcast and allegedly being downloaded here. Taking the advertising market of marketing in Serbia directly affects not only the rule of law, which is the most common objection to us, yes, from the European Union, and while their televisions here are obviously violating the rule of law because they do not respect any of the laws that I have listed. Next thing we know, it's media freedom. If they take part of the marketing market and because they do not use it, they should not use the marketing market of the Republic of Serbia, which is why they are not registered in the Republic of Serbia but can re-emission the programme without registration, because they are not paying anything because they are not using the market where they should take the money from marketing. However, with us they broadcast on all 30 channels and more, they broadcast ads and thereby directly damage domestic media because these ads that they re-air directly from their pockets are taken from them, and without income there is no freedom of the media. So, if you've taken away their incomes, then the media will be free. Then they depend most on local self-government and depend most on the advertisements given by the Government of Serbia and, by directly subtracting revenues from these foreign reportedly televisions, which re-emitting the programme, in fact, studies in Belgrade, directly affect media freedom. We saw them promote terrorism here on the road the other day. They're so much with multiple cameras they've been tracking these protests of violence, etc. which happened, and during two days there were some protests on the streets of some in Luxembourg who had been protesting in the winter conditions of water cannons and the direct arrest of participants in protests, and in those Luxembourg televisions there was no "p" of these protests, nor were they transferred, and just a few days earlier, they had, I don't know, 10 cameras in 10 cities and in a direct way promoted a road robber, and while we were expecting the courts, including judges for violations, to use existing laws, because the laws were passed to be implemented. We who pass laws are directly interested in these laws being implemented. Laws require power to be implemented. The laws of a state in which there is no power to enforce laws have no state. The power to enforce the laws is in the judiciary and if the judiciary doesn't do it, then we don't have the power to enforce the laws. What about the Traffic Safety Act, article 98, which says - the pedestrian who enters the highway will be fined up to 40,000 dinars in cash or in prison for up to 30 days? I ask these judges for offenses, all those who did not flee to protectors and trustees, because they no longer judge, perhaps if they were to judge, there might be some punishment, but apparently that the higher salary of the Protector or the Protector, the Trustee or the conspirator was more relevant to them, I ask the remaining judges for the offences that were not chosen for these independent regulatory bodies – why is Article 98 not applied. Traffic safety laws, and why don't pedestrians who get on the highway punish up to 40,000 dinars or 30 days in prison? I also ask judges and prosecutors - why the Constitution of Article 38 and Article 39 on freedom of movement is not respected and Article 133 is not respected. A criminal code, which says anyone who prevents or restricts freedom of movement will be punished up to a year in prison? I didn't see it, and these guys, they beat up Mom a peasant, and they protect her like a peasant from Sunday, but they beat up your mom's cry, so I didn't see that our judiciary seriously stepped into that problem. They're the ones who need to solve it by punishing the guilty, to protect the innocent who are getting hit on the highway, and that's why I'm calling finally the judges. The difference between justice and justice is great, I know that, but I call on judges again and those who are newly elected, so I invite them to share justice, not injustice to punish the guilty and to protect the innocent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11552	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11553	Dear President, Mr Pantic, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, we will certainly support these proposed solutions, but the honourable representative of the High Council of the judiciary, I think you could hear from the presentation of the MPs, my colleagues in the past, not to say all day, how many problems we as the MPs face and how much this question is, in fact, much deeper than the human solution itself. I believe that you have closely followed everything we have talked about and that in much of our address you will agree with us that these are the real things that happen to the citizens of Serbia, which we, first of all, present here. What's interesting is the topic of pressure, pressure on the judiciary, but not by the authorities, which you can see and what we've already defined that there is no such thing, but from one part of the opposition that claims to return to power, but I'll talk about it a little bit later. Now I want to look back on something that is very important and why Serbia's general citizens don't have much confidence in the judiciary and that's what happened, you'll agree with me, my colleagues talked about it today, that disastrous reform of the judiciary, we've talked about it many times. The best example of all this is the fact that the proposals for certain judges came on the same paper where in the lower left corner was the seal of DS and of that city or the municipality on which it was located, and in the lower right corner was the seal of the municipality which was scandalous and precedentd in itself. Unfortunately, the recommendation for a judge was whether or not the DS functioner, whether he was closer or closer, or if he could even be put under control? We've also read the records here from these municipal committees of theirs, and when you hear that people who have so decided on justice in our country are taking some lessons today and are trying to impose their opinion as only relevant and quality, you can't without smiling. What I especially want to point out, and that's what I told you in the opening part, is pressure. I am convinced that the judges we are discussing today and that we will be confident to choose later in the day, that they will do their job professionally by conscience. However, what I want to tell you, and also these people, is that they must in no way succumb to the pressure they will be exposed to, and that is certain. And there's these people who want to go back to power, which we talked about a moment ago, but who don't run away from anything and who don't think like them or maybe isn't extreme enough in their thinking or seeing things are ready to slip through a so-called warm rabbit and satanize it in every way possible. Why am I telling you all this? It is okay for us as people who participate in the political life of our country and as MPs to be exposed to criticism and it is okay to discuss, to think differently, that if we are going to conflict on different grounds, but with different ideas, above all arguments. But it is not normal for some people who have brought much good to our country, whether in the fields of culture, sports, science, any areas and spheres of society, to satanize just because they are not even for Alexander Vukic or SNS, but only to support our country's progress. This is what I'm calling an overture for what I'm about to tell you, which has certainly shocked a lot of people I've been in contact with the last few days. On the occasion of the opening of a Japanese factory, i.e. A famous Dragan Stojković Pixi also appeared. The man appeared here to bring just one more contribution, to the weight of the entire investment, and to show that he cares about Serbia. On that day and for the next few days, members of the former DS regime, media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, for days and weeks, satanized the man. They insulted him most primitively, called him a bot, called him the errand boy, Alexander Vukic, even though the man only came to support something that was of common good for our country. As time passed, and as it was seen that in the qualifications for the World Cup we would depend on that game in Portugal, they called it and spoke to it, so with whom you planted the gourds, so will you pass, and so we have already fallen. You also remember when the president came to greet our team on the plane that on that day they immediately started laughing and Dragan Stojković Pixie and the entire team, so some of their officials were looking forward to losing by 1:0. You could see it on their Twitter accounts as they celebrated it, and it was all in the spirit of it – that is, when you spend time with malnutrition, so you will pass through. When that turn came, when we won the goal of Mitrovica in the 90th minute, and when we went to the world championship, the story turned around and they automatically tried to wash themselves by imposing praise and Dragan Stojkovic Pixie, as if until a few hours ago, they didn't spit on the same people. I'm telling you all of this as an overture of what's going on from my personal corner and in my opinion, with Nikola Tesla, the man who may be the most recognizable anywhere in the world when you mention Serbia. It's about Novak Djokovic, of course. It's a man who's in the media today and yesterday under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, and in the printed media, they've been thrown out again by some kind of satanization. It is now the worst possible thing to write about, and the only reason is that man said he was apolitical. What's this about? In March of this year, Novak Djokovic became the best tennis player of all time, although in my opinion it was long before. In March, he spent 311 weeks at the head of the ATP list and entered history and Belgrade wanted to repay him in a symbolic way. Namely, the court, various fountains, bridges, different institutions in the city of Belgrade were illuminated by the colors of the Serbian flag. Some of his best moves and winning tournaments, his character and the flag of Serbia, were designed at the Court and the City Assembly façades. As the case played, Novak Djokovic was in Belgrade during that period, he also wanted to come to the City Assembly. Of course, he was welcomed in the City Assembly by people who are officials in the city of Belgrade, taking pictures with him, but that is the least important. Novak Djokovic spent the most of his time with people who came in front of him, hung out, took pictures and dedicated the period to those people who cheered for him daily and supported him. Where's the problem? The same evening again, media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, again their activities insult this man in the worst possible way, one of the people who will certainly be enrolled in the history of sports as one of the world's most successful athletes in history. They're only starting to insult him because, imagine, he took pictures with officials in the city of Belgrade. During the period after that, he often received poison arrows, such as – well, he could get involved in events in his country, why not advertise, it's not right, there's no patriot. It is told by those people who have shown their patriotism by robbing anything that is being robbed by the citizens of Serbia. When these protests began, when activists Dragan Djilas started, various Šut Manojlovics ran on the highway and blocked traffic, he answered with one percentage and said that clean air, water and food are the keys to health. The sooner those people who had spit on him, called him a hero again, declared him a hero, and that's how you had a situation where they celebrated and abused that man again for their own political gain, and tried to drag him into petty politics. You could read - Djokovic is with us, Djokovic will bring down Vukic, and in the most possible, disgusting and ground-based way, only some statement that man made at a given moment, which has nothing to do with politics. So it only lasted 12 hours. Why 12 hours? The next day, when a man realized that in our country, those who had ruined Serbia, used it for petty politics to reach his name more, he called out and pointed out that it had nothing to do with political protests, but what more was the man always apolitical and that he did not want to participate in it. As he put it on his social network the same second Novak Djokovic of heroes became a traitor, a bot, a coward and something worse. This tells you all as a classic example of pressure that has been exposed to people who have engaged in sports and who have brought much joy to our country, and who have been attacked by those who have brought only grief to the citizens of Serbia. This is what I am telling you, not as a need to defend Dragan Stojkovic Piski, especially Novak Djokovic, they do not need such a defence, nor do I want my exposure to it, but to be viewed only as a type of pressure to whom anyone who does not want to attack his country and who does not want to participate in this chaos that they are persistently trying to challenge and that this is not an isolated example. When we talk about pressure, and I'm going to slowly end with it, it's what's been going on in the last few days, about film, film industry, and pressure on our country for so-called. genocide and alleged genocide in Srebrenica. For the past few days, media have been under the direct control of Dragan Gilas to exert as much pressure on RTS as possible. Now, watch out for pressure to show on RTS the movie "Quo Vadis Aida" or "Where are you going Aida". It's a film that serves a propaganda that makes Serbia and the Serbian people, for who knows which way, through a film and a series of very powerful industries, satanize and turn into bad guys. It's not hard to determine, you can also check on the Internet. I wasn't lazy, so I did a little film titles and thematics. Over 100 different films and series have a connotation and a shop where Serbs and Serb people are portrayed as bad guys. The exact examples are that "Peacemaker", or "Peacemaker", "Beyond the enemy lines", "Sniperist Two", you have a series of films where your shop is directed at how to prevent the alleged genocide in Bosnia conducted by Serbia and the Serb military. When I tell you this, I'm not talking by accident, why? Just now, the perjanica of Dragana Djilas, Marinika Tepic, was a woman who in this home was a signator of the initiative to vote for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica and I am telling you all of this for the simple reason that these people with the creation of the atmosphere, some kind of negative, and some kind of pressure are trying to push through what is important to them or what they would benefit from. This is just one in a series of examples. Therefore, dear Mr Pantic, my discussion, please understand in the right way and direct this word of support, first of all, to your colleagues never to succumb to this kind of pressure, even though they will be exposed to it, because if the RTS can, if Dragan Stojković Piski or one of the biggest Novak Djokovic, why, today, there may not be a judge who may be subject to the subject that will be in connection with Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic or anyone else. The law is the same for everyone. The law does not protect us either as representatives of the position, nor should it protect them as representatives of the opposition. Therefore, Your Honor, Mr Pantic, I am convinced that the elected judges will work in accordance with the law, that they will decide as prescribed by the letter of the law, and that they will always benefit from the citizens of Serbia at the end of all times. We, as MPs, will always try to be as one big team with the government, but above all with President Alexander Vukic, who tr... . The way of success and progress we work in the interests of all citizens and to create a better and even better place to live for all our children, for generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11554	Thank you. The word has Dr. Uglješa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11555	Thank you. Dear President, Mr Orlic, the Honorable Mr Pantic of the VSS, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course, as well as my colleagues from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, to believe in the judiciary, to believe in an independent and efficient judiciary, and to believe that these candidates for the judges we are discussing today, that when they are elected to do their job professionally, as I believe that such a larger number of judges in Serbia, both the judge and the prosecutors. If we don't have an effective judiciary and an independent one, we don't even have certain results in the fight against the mafia, crime and corruption. We have been witnessing over the past year and something that we have serious results regarding the fight against the mafia, crime and corruption. The Home Office has done its job well. Of course, the prosecution made its contribution, and now the judiciary is on the move. I wish it wasn't happening, and it happens that individuals who are suspected or accused of the most serious crimes, are released. My colleagues said something about it, so we had a situation that over the past year several members of the Veljka Belivuk criminal group have been released by the court's decision. Explanation – so he claims that he was only driving the killer to commit the murder, so he was released, unable to influence witnesses, he was only a driver in the murder. It was one of the reasons why I didn't talk about some judges like Judge Majic and some of his shameful judgments, not to mention how many those who were involved in the most serious crimes of rape and kidnapping, and they were released, not to mention the mild punishments against some murderers, rapists and kidnappers. It's all in a small percentage. I believe that such things will not happen and that everyone who is proven guilty will answer in accordance with the law. We of the SNS, led by Alexander Vukic, want a more effective judiciary and therefore change the Constitution in the area of justice. This was more extensive and detailed by my colleague, Dejan Kesar. But everyone who works in the judiciary has to realize they're both in service and state and citizen. I'm going to give you a few examples today. For example, during yesterday, an answer to the parliamentary question of the Republic Public Prosecutor came to me, I will not speak my name – I asked a question at a session on November 25th about new threats addressed to President Alexander Vukic and his family, and these threats took place in November. Do you know, my fellow citizens, what kind of answer did I get from the vice-president of the Republic Public Prosecutor? That I had already received an answer to the identical question I asked on 16 March regarding the threats addressed to President Vukic and his family and that I had asked the same question on 29 June. Now I'm asking these D.A. geniuses -- how was I supposed to know on 16 March and 29 June who would and how in November threaten President Alexander Vukic and his family? Or these individual geniuses from the prosecutor's office, as well as the MPs, and thus to the citizens of Serbia, do not go into the content of a serious parliamentary issue. It is true that I asked the question on March 16th and June 29th and November 25th. It was the same subject, but the contents were different. What's this saying? This says that in continuity throughout 2021, he has been vehemently, brutally, rudely and shamefully threatening President Aleksandr Vukic and his family, without adequate response from the authorities. Then we have a pattern answer – well, you already asked that question in March, June. Now, in November, let's give you the same answer - we're working on it. We can't answer so clearly, not just because it's the President of the Republic and our party, but because it's someone's children. It's someone's family. All children and all families in Serbia must be protected. The competent authorities, and I again underline - I believe that most of the people employed in the prosecution and the judiciary are honest, fair, educated and good people, whose interest is in Serbia and the law in the first place, I just want it to be shown in practice in all cases. It's not an effective judiciary if 90% is done and 10% is left to the case. God forbid something happens, God forbid it's coming true. Which one do I get from the D.A.'s office later? You already got the answer in March to that question. So, I'm just asking the D.A.'s office, and yet I say most of them are honest and professional people, you take seriously any threat addressed to any citizen of the Republic of Serbia. We've got strong institutions, we've got security services, we've got the D.A.'s office, we've got the police, we can locate anyone who threatens. But the judiciary is also very effective when it comes to the spoken word of my fellow MP or one of the Serbian Progressive Party, to be quickly and effectively convicted for making an alleged slander to a political opponent he said was a criminal. Then the hearings are scheduled for two, three weeks, we have enough examples here in the National Assembly, and that MP is convicted. All right, if that's in accordance with the law, if he's made a libel, it's no problem, let him pay the fine, but that's true of all. But when one of Gilas' fellow Members, Marinika Tepic and those of them, Shut, Black, who have these nicknames, when one of them says not to one of ours that he's a thief, a criminal or a bastard, but when he threatens to kill the family of some SNS official or himself, then we don't have an adequate reaction from the competent institutions. I'm asking, what's this all about? I ask, do we still, and I hope we don't, and I have information that we have, do we still have certain judges working on the orders of foreign power centers, individual tycoons and Dragan Gilas? How strong is this one today, as one of my colleagues said, the tycoon cartel, how strong is it, I think that's what fellow Milos Terzic said today, how strong is this tycoon cartel, Dragan Gilas? How many judges and prosecutors are controlling and paying? Who are still his people in the MUP and security services and we have foreign officials, i.e. Western embassies making a parallel center of power with them? I know, Mr. Pantich, that you and almost all of your colleagues are judging this, because this isn't working for you either. I also believe in the Supreme Cassation Court, and I believe in most judges, I know it's not easy for you, but that's why I'm talking about this in public. Why? To help you, to help justice and the truth, to help the competent institutions, to make sure that everyone sees that it's not easy for you in the judiciary, because you have a number of dolls, you have a number of moles, you have a number of mercenaries by Gilas, tycoon, mafia and foreign service. Fortunately, I hope only one digit is that number of judges and prosecutors. I hope so, but I also hope that they will be cleansed and cleansed. When we from the SNS or from our coalition point to some shameful verdict, to cooperate with the foreign service of someone from the judiciary, we are accused of interfering in the work of the judiciary. Some of your colleagues have established non-governmental organizations that are funded from the outside. Some of your colleagues receive salaries from Serbia's budget and receive salaries from abroad. Imagine what would happen to SNS MPs if one of us received a salary from the budget and money from abroad to run some kind of NGO that deals with the judiciary. It's true and it must be eradicated. Why? To rule justice. Because Serbia is a country of justice. Serbia is a country of law. We, led by Alexander Vukic, are doing everything we can to make the judiciary more effective and that everything that is up to the Serbian government, everything that is up to the Justice Ministry to allow you better conditions to be done and done. One of my colleagues spoke to me, a colleague of Mladen Boskovic, as only since 2012 was built and renovated by judicial institutions, in the excellent organisation of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. So, the Ministry of Justice and the Government of Serbia and President Vukic are doing everything to allow you to have all the conditions to work independently of us from political structures, to work efficiently and professionally. I believe in you and believe that these judges who have been elected now and who have been elected during the year, as well as you will be experienced in carrying out justice in Serbia. In the end, I want to finish my presentation with one of the beautiful skills announced by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, a cure has arrived against the crown in Serbia. Therefore, only Serbia, Slovenia, Denmark and Lithuania have the cure in Europe. I end my speech with the words of Alexander Vukic – people's lives and health have no price. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11556	Thank you. The word is Dr. Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11557	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are talking and we will decide later on the holders of judicial functions that are first elected as judges and which will decide from tonight, from our decision and election to the judge, very serious issues, very serious issues and decide on issues that are of interest to all citizens of Serbia. I would also like to tell them, but also those who have been elected earlier and much earlier, to all those in the prosecution and the judicial authorities that they simply know that they have been elected in the name of the people, that they have been elected by the votes of the MPs and that they are therefore making decisions in the interests of those citizens, in the interests of the Serbian state, and that they do not happen when they decide and are ashamed of that decision. I hope these judges who will strengthen the team have the will, have the opportunity, but they also have a country where order is known. They also talked today about 2010, about judicial reform, so I'll remind myself of just something we'll mention, but something that can never happen again, never happen in Serbia, or in any other normal state. The attempt to destroy the judiciary and try to keep thousands of people out of their posts only shows that those people who decided at the time had no measures, but did not want to do anything good for Serbia. Their decisions were independent of justice, but independent of common sense. They were dependent solely on the yellow company, which had just gone into the past thanks to the Serbian citizens' voices. The company is no longer, their auras, as the parties have already been called, none in this Serbia anymore, and does not know how any of these parties were called, in which party, Djilas, Jeremic, Dusan Petrovic, that I do not skip anyone, Marinika Tepic, Nebojsa Zelenovic, the whole gang, and they are not sure whether they are called freedom, whether justice, whether injustice. But what's true, the citizens know who's who in this Serbia, so they know what Alexander Vukic is, and they know what all those who came from that yellow company are. I'm sure the judiciary is a bright spot in this country and it will be in the next period. It is up to you as judges to prove it and show it, but never forget that you are here thanks, first of all, to the citizens of Serbia and this National Assembly. In the next period, the decision will be different. Among other things, it will be stated by the citizens, whether your claim of independence, and until now, of course, you have been independent, you as someone who comes from a higher judge, know very well that your independence has indeed been absolute so far, and that you have been responsible for decisions and judgments, both your judges and your judges. Do not expect anyone else to be responsible for your decisions in the coming period, but for you. Everyone in this Serbia sees justice in the judge and expects that justice to be served. What we need to know is that it's not all that simple. Here, the years pass, and a certain number of people who certainly did not live and did not act according to the law simply did not welcome justice, or did not welcome the judiciary to treat his behaviour towards the citizens, the budget and what they were doing while they were in high state functions. You may now be able, as an independent, to determine where Dragan Gilas 620m euros came from, you may be able to determine in which countries he has the money and how it is possible that someone who has taken that kind of money aside for it has not yet been held accountable or convicted by a criminal penalty. I wish someone had chewed it up! If someone from the Justice Department had said -- hey, Gilas, that's not fair. But you didn't come to that either. We also had a case, not to forget, former mayor of Nebojsa Zelenovic, who was sentenced to fivem euros in one year's budget abuse and who is just thanks to negligence, and the mild word is that the verdict for fivem euros in abuse of budgets comes to an age and instead of ending up where thieves end up, he ends up on a bridge blockade in Sapac. And no less or less, he organizes his mercenaries to beat people up and take the law into their own hands. Perhaps now, if the state so wishes, or the citizens of Serbia, you will be even more independent than so many independents, you may be able to ask Vuk Jeremic and Marinika Tepic and not skip someone from this lying team, until they think and what money they think is spreading unrest, spreading lies and trying to destroy Serbia in ways that are not in line with the Constitution and the law, which are not in line with common sense? I ask these judges that we will later declare whether we are in favour or not, and I think that we will certainly support that choice, to help older colleagues to see justice faster and simpler, to see that justice is seen by citizens and that they simply know that all those who have abstained on any basis, whether they have stolen five million euros like Nebojsa Zelenovic or 620m euros like Dragan Djilas, and among other things, whether someone will call Dragan Gilas to determine and say - behold, the man was, we listened, we looked at all the relevant evidence and found the man innocent. Well, they also know that Serbia's citizens have earned 620m euros fairly. Full support for judges who first come to the post, but also full support for judges who were previously elected and the desire to be the first and only role model, and that justice at all costs, for all those who work honestly in Serbia, which is Serbia's majority, Serbia led by Aleksandar Vucic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11558	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am optimistic that both Djilas and Zelenovic will eventually respond to our judicial authorities, regardless of their choice of judges today. One day he'll still have to satisfy justice and that everyone for what he's done and answers. The choice of judicial officials, I see that there are prosecutors here, is always a sensitive topic in Serbian society. In the past few years, the former regime has been constantly trying to pin and prove pressure on judicial officials. They often have some of their exhibits, such as that of Judge Majic, we even have some who are judges of the Supreme Cassation Court. And what exactly is the truth? This constitution has started to apply since 2007, it seems to me, the first President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Nata Mesarovic, has been elected. Does anyone know that Nata Mesarovic was elected president of the Supreme Cassation Court? He chose the former regime, Gilas, Solak, Zelenovic, Dusan Petrovic. To enter the procedure for selecting the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary, in the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court. I am now asking the former regime - did the National Assembly have an opinion on the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court when she elected Nata Mesarovic as President of the Supreme Cassation Court? It's not. I didn't get that paper as a National MP. Is there a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary to elect Nata Mesarovic for the President of the Court? Here, I'm telling you-- there's no paper either. There is no proposal based on which Nata Mesarovic was elected president of the Supreme Cassation Court. You know who suggested her? He suggested Bosko Ristic, not Mom and Dad. He hid the Source on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, hid as chairman of the Justice Committee and pushed the National Assembly's decision, in fact, the opinion of the Justice Committee as a proposal for Nata Mesarovic to be elected president of the Supreme Cassation Court, where he entered direct application of the Constitution beyond the law governing the area. Now such a team is trying to present to Serbian citizens how the current regime and Aleksandar Vukic are putting pressure on the holders of judicial and prosecutorial functions. That's what it looks like today. What it looks like their prosecutors and judges are doing. Here, as a layman, I am not a legal profession, but I believe that every judge and every prosecutor should first of all have a certain amount of integrity, the courage to do their job in the best faith, knowledge, to carry out evidence in the best faith, knowledge, and on this basis to initiate some criminal proceedings, the judge is in charge of criminal proceedings, to make a verdict that is condemning or liberating, based on evidence that is being carried out. I must say, courage, independence, independence, the integrity of the individual's personality, not the law and the Constitution. The law and the Constitution provide only the possibility for this integrity, independence, independence to be realized. And what it looks like with prosecutors elected by the same composition of the National Assembly, the State's Chief Prosecutors proposed and proposed the High Council of the Judiciary. Let's say, this is an event that's still up to date. It happens in a small court in eastern Serbia. The illusion is that in some cases they can participate equally in defence and prosecution when it comes to crime. Crime is committed for the sake of obtaining legal benefit, and it is certain that whoever commits crimes suspected of providing funds for his defense if he comes under the influence of the law. What are we going to do about the crimes that have stopped them? They're not even, you know why? Because the D.A. has a state to himself. He's got a budget that's almost unlimited, and that's why the prosecutor doesn't have the right to perform only evidence that's judging, but that goes in favor of a person who's suspected of not starting a trial or guilty of the innocence of a suspect or an innocent man being convicted. You know what the D.A. says about one of those cases? What do I care? I don't need a letter of defense to pass on to the witches to plead to the impeachment remarks because I might get an answer that I won't be able to press charges for. The reason he's doing this is because he's afraid of a possible condemnation of the environment in which he lives. Now, I'm asking a question -- how does he think he's judging a serious criminal or running a criminal against a serious criminal? So, I have a deputy prosecutor or prosecutor appointed by Bosko Ristic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Nata Mesarevic and others, Dragan Djilas, who can only judge with seciks and hens, no one else. Keep your eyes open. If it does, and it happens because something like that always has to happen sooner or later, that the judge is like that, so now the judge does not act impartially in the whole procedure, but according to the instructions given by the prosecution, which is very difficult to prove, right, unless a hearing is scheduled to provide evidence that is not informed of the opposite side. You don't believe it? It's true, because a lawyer doesn't have to know everything about the procedure. He knows Criminal Law, Paris Law, Procedural Actions, but in order to build his own defense, he has to hire the persons from that profession, right, and if he's not informed which evidence he's going to perform, can he hire them? He can't. Well, that's what's really going on. Now, right now. We'll deliver the evidence, it's not disputed. Now we come to the part that is very important, which is that through these reforms we will place a serious burden on the High Council of the judiciary and the State's greater prosecutors to protect citizens from judges and prosecutors who have no courage, independence, independence and integrity. I can accept it, in some part, so I wouldn't be a coward if he said, "Well, take me away, I don't want to be a part of this." No, I will press charges that he may say, "Let the court set him free, and the judge who acts will judge him, so let him be free of appeal." You have prosecutors calling the drawer. You know about that, too. So, one serious job is in front of you when it comes to the High Court's advice that this case is really being conducted in accordance with the laws that we're passing, that the judges are really judging on the basis of evidence, in the best faith and knowledge of this evidence. For if the judge says so, I do not allow you to produce evidence, or your proposal is rejected, but it is the coming out of what is called impartiality. Oh, let him take the evidence. What evidence you're going to draw to your faith, that's your discretionary right, and that's right for no one to question you, but you're going to have to explain it, write it down in a verdict, and some other court, if it appreciates it, and then if you have a lot of those judgments, it's up to you that the Supreme Council of the Judiciary finally appreciates what one such judge does, as well as the State's Major Prosecutors what such prosecutors do. It's just one more part of everything that's waiting for one organ. Personally, I believe that the choice of legal holders and prosecutorial functions performed by the National Assembly was in some way in the presence of the public and that the presence of the public also obliged the High Council of the judiciary and the MPs to make the right decisions in the course of the election. I'm not saying it's always been, because even though we mentioned that Nara Mesarevic was elected in a way that was not foreseen by the Constitution and by law she was elected, so the Constitutional Court had to confirm that the opposition was right then. However, the presence of the public limits certain self-will. I would like the Supreme Council of the judiciary in the future, if and when reforms carried out in the Constitution are in place, to really take care of what the judges he appoints and appoints are doing in a certain way. Today we have a session and a motion for a decision on the election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. I'd just like a little detail that is related to our monetary policy, maybe by some not too much. On Sunday, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic said that the acceptances of soldiers, officers and officers in the past 10 years have grown on average by about 70%, and some Independent Union of the Army of Serbia or what is already called the Union of the Army of Serbia, which said President Aleksandar Vukic was wrong and that the salary was somewhere around 40,000 dinars, which was 500 and some euros. Now you see all the tricks used by the former regime when trying to attack President Alexander Vukic, SNS and the results of SNS and Aleksandar Vukic. The president said it well 10 years ago, and that union as the reference year mentioned in 2008. We are not today at the end of 2018, but at the end of 2021. It's just one piece of information, one example of what the former regime uses to try to trick citizens, somehow agree to vote for them in some subsequent elections. Now I have to ask a question. Yesterday was the meeting of the government of the Republic of Serbia, attended by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the directors of public enterprises, the governor of the National Bank, where the governor, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, informed us that in the past few months for 550m euros, imported energy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that in the coming period 250m euros were expected to spend "Electroprivreda Serbia" and "Srbijagas", but there were no words about a change in course. That wasn't possible during the former regime. When foreign exchanges were provided for the functioning of state and public enterprises, Topcider worked full steam. Our national currency has lost its value every day. This only confirms how correct the moves that SNS and Aleksandar Vukic made in 2014 were on our economic plan. It seems to me that these economic results are the most painful of the former regime because with such good economic results it is impossible for Đilas, Šolak, Vuk Jeremic, that unfortunate Ponoš, to win Alexander Vukic in any election. It will always dispute. Their whole story is not about the independence of the judiciary, they know that our judiciary is independent and independent, it revolves around showing up and inventing dictatorships, showing up and making up that citizens lived better during their rule than during the rule of Alexander Vukic and SNS. I guess they're trying to convince citizens that it's worse now than it was in 2011 and 2012, and they're going to have a chance to check on April 3, 2022, and I don't think they'll be happy with these results, because you can't double-cross Serbian citizens for such big things.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11560	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or someone who has not applied his right to the Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Mr. Milletic. The parliamentary group's time is one minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11561	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Dear colleagues, dear Pantic, I can tell you in front of our Parliament Club Justice and Reconciliation Party – United Peasant Party, that as a representative of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, as a member, here in the Assembly you have repeatedly defended future judges, I can say that you, as a man, as judge and president of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, have painted Nisli's face here. That's why I'll always support the suggestions when you're here, because I know they're people who are competent, who know and who are worth it. Once again, the United Peasant Party MP club, the Justice and Reconciliation Party, will vote in favour of the bill and will only be on behalf of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11562	Thank you and your MP club. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint, unique search on the motions for decisions set out in paragraphs 4 to 9 of the agenda. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Wednesday, December 15, 2021, starting at 17.00 a.m. as a day for voting on the items of the 12th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021 and calling on MPs to enter the large hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-15-0.u11563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 178 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Rights of the User of the Temporal Accommodation Service in Social Protection. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure only decide on the bill, in general. I put the draft law on the rights of users of temporary housing services in social security, in general. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 181, a total – 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a bill on the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement and the law governing public borrowing (points 2 and 3 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3 of points 4 and 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing and the conclusion and validation of international contracts, by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. Second item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia by the Bank of Intesa AD Belgrade for the purpose of financing the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica project in general. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 184, a total of – 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. Third item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India on the granting of permits to members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular representatives to deal with paid activities, in general. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 184, he did not vote – one, total – 185 MPs. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has passed the bill. Since we are now moving to a decision on election proposals, i.e. the termination of functions (points 4 to 9 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105, point 12, point 13, 14 and 15 of Article 105. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority, holds most of the votes of all the MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. Fourth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office as judges, in general. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 185, total – 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. The fifth item of the agenda. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of a member of the High Council of the Court of Justice of the Court of Appeals, in general. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 185, total – 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. The sixth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plan, in general. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 185, total – 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. The seventh item of the agenda. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the office of President of the Administrative Court, in general. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 184, he did not vote – one, total – 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The eighth point of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the functions of two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Final vote: 185 in total, for – 185. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. The ninth item of the agenda. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Final vote: 185 in total, for – 185. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Let me congratulate on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf the newly elected bearers of office in the selection and wish them a lot of success in the work. Before I conclude the session, I want to remind again at the end of today's session that the Republic of Serbia opened Cluster 4 yesterday in negotiations on Serbia's EU membership. I would like to congratulate all the MPs, because we have contributed significantly to this very important step in the further European integration of Serbia by our activities, by passing laws and by adopting constitutional changes. I want to thank you all for that. Also, I want to inform you that I have called for the next week two sessions, for Tuesday 21 December and Thursday 23 December, with a large number of agenda points, I would not read them now. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the 12th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021.
