ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4759	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that, at this point in the hall, 135 MPs are present, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 2 and 5 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the meetings were invited to be attended by Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information, Daniela Vanušić, V.D. Assistant Culture and Information Minister Tijana Palkovljevic Bulgaria, head of the Mother of Serbia Gallery in Novi Sad, and Vladimir Pistalo, director of the National Library of Serbia. I ask the MPs' groups that, unless they have already done so, they immediately apply for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Articles 157, paragraphs 1 and 192, paragraphs 3, and in accordance with Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the proposal for a law on museum activity and a proposal for a decision on the declaration of an old and rare library town for cultural well-being. I would also like to welcome the representative of the proposings, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture and Information, and, what is important to us, until now, the President of the National Assembly, and to ask her if she wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4760	Thank you very much. Dear President, thank you for welcoming me so nicely. Dear MPs and MPs, today we have two agenda points that are related to the ministry and culture portfolio, both of course by regular procedure in parliament, as it was introduced in this assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and above all in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that in these 20 days as far as the final Bill of Museums and this second point relating to the fifth list of old and rare cultural goods were found, we have had enough to get to know the essence of this law and in particular. So I'm going to try not to convince the explanation that you've already met, but to get a few of the most important things out and to explain the essence of this law. We will agree, therefore, that if we agree together that Serbian museums simply in Serbia are a place of historical memory and play a decisive role in preserving both national and cultural identity and our people and all those peoples living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, museums are not only that, but they are an important element in building our modern culture and it is an extremely important fact for modern Serbian society. The Serbian government, as you have seen and what you have learned, has been investing significant funds for several years in rebuilding major national museums, such as the National Museum in Belgrade, as well as the Museum of Contemporary Art in Belgrade, but the budget of the Republic of Serbia sets out significant funds for a number of smaller regional and local elections, as well as museums of national importance, which are on the list of republican cultural institutions, and are not in Belgrade. For many years, such a significant separation has been set aside for the Museum of naive and marginal art, which is territorially located in Jagodina. The Ministry of Culture is precisely because of these priorities and because of the importance of museum action for our country as one of the priorities has certainly singled out the work of the museum's work law, which is now in front of you. In the history of the Republic of Serbia, this is the first specialized law intended to regulate this important area, which for unknown reasons all these years has been completely neglected in the area of protection of our cultural heritage. Not to speak now through history when we had a law in the history of Yugoslavia that dealt with museum work, it seems to me the last of 1977, but I want to point out that nearly half a century or more precisely 44 years later we have a proposal for a law on museum activity ahead of us. The aim of the law is to strengthen museum institutions, introduce Europe's most modern standards, as we have explained. The ways and conditions are clearly prescribed, how museums are founded in general with us. We see that we have a flood of one, that every little bit opens or claims that it opened and founded some kind of museum, which is essentially not. Keeping, studying, protecting, presenting heritage, how to now keep documentation under the law, and entry-exit of artifacts, mandatory application of digitisation, which is one of the important priorities of our government's work and many other elements that you have individually classified in the norms of our law. Data from the Republic Bureau of Statistics and the Institute for the Study of Cultural Development say we have 149 museums on our territory. So, if we take into account the importance of the museum building, as I said, for studying our history, for science, for culture, for education, certainly for building cultural and emancipated citizens, the Ministry of the First Days, 100 days of government work, has pointed out that we will appear very quickly before you with the law. The task force has stepped up its work just since October last year, and only in the working group have people from museum science work. The head was Dr Tijana Palkovljević Bulgarian, otherwise head of the Matica Serbian Gallery, secretary of the National Museum in Belgrade, Ivana Dočić, Dr Nikola Krstović, professor, associate of the Centre for Museumology and Heritology of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, Daniela Filipović, curator at the Ethnographic Museum, Sladjana Bojković, museum adviser of the History Museum of Serbia, Mr Tijana Stanković Pesterac, current director of the Vojvodina Museum, I must also tell the people of the Ministry, Mrs Gordana Stevanović, senior adviser, Sanja Grujic Cupac, adviser of the Ministry of Culture and Information and of course, Daniela Vanušić, who is here with me today, who is the assistant minister. Why I read these names, to see how serious the work has been invested in this, and that this has been done exclusively by people related to this activity, and when it's polluted, it doesn't subside with a political summit or someone who represents the Ministry of Culture and Information, but it's pampering with the profession, because they're behind each individual solution, and I've warmly supported them in it. Of course we had a public discussion. The public debate was great. They were held in Novi Sad, Nis, Belgrade, right in this building. We also had the presentation of this law before the MPs of the National Assembly, above all in the Committee on Culture and Information. At the round tables were attended by 107 representatives of museum institutions, rural, urban, local, republican, there were all representative societies. It was completely public and open, and it was able to attend who was even interested in this important and professional area. During the public debate, as many as 147 remarks arrived. The task force met again and those who were indeed in good interest to fix, improve the first draft of the law were adopted. A few things you don't have in your mind, in your reasonings there's always talk about the best things, the explanations of the law as it is, I'm obliged to tell you which were the two, the three objections were the most carried out in these public debates. One was the formation of a council for the museums of the Republic of Serbia. It's one newspaper with us, and it's a new body that will be formed at the National Museum as a central museum facility. The objections have been adopted. After the debate, it was explained, explained and determined how the members of the council would be elected, the number of them, the model of function, which they would play, that is, on the existing museum network. To say, from the beginning to the end, the expert commission of the working group insisted that this National Council, a council for the museums of the Republic of Serbia, was necessary. I accepted their arguments completely. The second question was museum experts, professional calls. I say, for all these years, in 44 years since we had the last law, this profession has really been a major change, and these museum professions have had a huge transformation. After that, more precise definition of these expertises was approached, it was clearly pointed to a model of professional advancement in this profession. We've also had observations on how to elect a director. These remarks were adopted, it was decided to make this more precise than the basic Culture Act. The people who run the museums will now have to have a professional exam for working in museums and for the possibility of running to such important and prestigious places in culture. The greatest attention, partly because of the fact that the motherhood never existed in our system of museology, has just caused a great deal of attention and professional and the personality that some of the people in the museum institutions have encouraged to talk about, not without the basics and the previous knowledge. I say, the parenthood of us never existed so that no one can claim that his parenthood was given, taken, because it was never in our museum system. We expanded the number of parent institutions from the first draft and the first time was introduced – territorially competent museums. Now under this law means we have established both horizontally and vertically what the museum network in Serbia looks like, and how they will be connected in our Serbian museum network. Another change is important, since across Serbia, I have now convinced myself by traveling, visiting municipalities and cities, each city almost has a museum that has a prefix in front of it – a people's museum, which, to a large extent, has introduced confusion, i.e. the National Museum that we have here in Belgrade, which is a central museum institution, and is changing the name of this institution in Belgrade to the National Museum of Serbia. That's how he'll be singled out. I'm not gonna tell you, read a whole list of museums now, parent museums, all museums. That's what you have in law. The dilemmas which were and which, of course, were defended, were behind them, and thank you for recognising that in the text of the law, and we have no amendments, was the dilemma why was the Museum of naive and marginal art, which is a republican institution of culture, and the seat in Jagodina, not intended as parent? I'm saying, exclusively the opinion of the profession, there are no local emotions, and there's no animosity that anyone prefers this city or that city, or more one or the other republican institution of culture, but it can't be observed definitely separated from the whole art of a particular museum. No parenthood was taken away, because he never had any parenthood. I'm saying, there can't be a motherhood for special parts of art. Then we would have parenthood in every institution that deals with cubism, surrealism, reality or symbolism, so there was a great misunderstanding between professions and those who had good intentions, simply because they live in certain local environments. I say, the museum performs the motherland for naive and marginal art, that's impossible, because it's just a special field of art. We have two other institutions dealing with similar forms or works of art, which is the Gallery of naive art in Kovacica and the Museum of naive art "Ilianum" in Šid, which are not republican institutions. In addition, there are no specialized experts, i.e. education only for the field of naive and marginal art. My impression is that, with all the praise for all the museums that are the republican institutions of culture, and the one that I say there have been certain polemics, the opinion is that there is no basis for performing parenthood in the museum network system in the Republic of Serbia. I think the whole discussion was about something else entirely. The Serbian Orthodox Church museum in the draft existed. I went to talk to Our Holiness, to the Patriarch, and we talked about it. We fully agreed that we need to do a special law on the museums of the Serbian Orthodox Church, because they do not only exist in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but also in Zagreb, and in St. Andrea, in many places around us, and in the whole system of museums of the Serbian Orthodox Church and in all the historical and cultural buildings that exist in this system should be covered and developed a whole new law. Neither should Hilandar forget on the holy mountain. It's an all-inclusive topic. According to our constitution, all our traditional confesions are even and we could not determine the origin of one museum belonging to one church, the Serbian Orthodox Church, over museums belonging to other confesions. And that's the only reason. I once again thank the Patriarch for his complete understanding and for our agreement to approach a special law, and I spoke to the leaders of other religious communities, of course, and here we have made certain arrangements. Dearly beloved, you know that by the time I took office as minister, one of my first moves was to have all cultural institutions deliver and make a list and review, because the real truth is that Serbia doesn't even know what cultural treasure it owns in museums, libraries. I am partially satisfied with what has been done, but I am convinced that this Law on Museum Activity will also help to make it a strict obligation, where even fines will be if necessary, and must, when something is recorded, that this treasure is adequately preserved. I say - museums, museum buildings and museum work, is really an instrument to preserve the national identity of each of us. Without them, we can't understand the past, we can't understand the present, we won't be able to see what our future will look like, and we won't be ready for it. The museums are the treasures of our treasure, part of the educational process of all generations, and I think that when we go to museums, we find a number of answers to historical questions that sometimes appear before us and we have dilemmas about how something happened and why something is happening today. Museums are both the best way and the best cultural institutions that can introduce us to others and that is one important part of our public diplomacy. The Museum's Labour Act is of priority to our culture, and I suggest that after the discussions we have today we adopt it. There are also numerous sublaws, six months to fully edit this area. The second item of the agenda is actually the fifth - a list for the announcement of old and rare books for cultural goods of exceptional importance. I say fifth, because the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the past has already been ratified by four of these lists, and in total from 1979 to 2010, 2.286 old and rare books have been completely singled out in this way. The first list was prepared on the basis of a valid 2011 law. Thanks to this system every year, at least from these lists that you have and who studied it, it is known that the valuable structure was completely hidden from both experts and the general public. Here on this list are all Cyrillic, 18th-century manuscript books, copies of Cyrillic and printed books from 1638, unique copies of books, maps, engravings, musicians, really one extraordinary study structure. There are also unique Serbian publications from the 20th century, which were banned and destroyed for ideological or other reasons, and I think it would be interesting for our study why someone once banned books that were in the early 20th century and in the 20th century had any ideological omen or indication and who was the one who determined what was contrary to some ruling ideology. I say, this is a list based on entries made from 2011 to 2015. We should commend the work of the National Library of Serbia's research team and the Matica library of Serbia and others. On this list, if I'm not mistaken, there are 720 rare books. I will no longer keep your attention, it is estimated that the books on the list have special importance for science and culture, administratively because of their uniqueness, because of their rareness. It is important that they get the status of cultural goods of exceptional importance. I say again, and that is one way to determine that identity layer of Serbian culture, on the one hand, but also to show that we are equally guarding and protecting and protecting monuments that belong to other cultures and are located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and I call on you to vote this part of the agenda in the voting day. Thank you very much and forgive me if I have your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4761	Thank you. Reporters of the board of directors, Sandra Christmas has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4762	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. Dear Madam Minister with an associate, honourable MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information, I will brief you on the reasons why this committee has proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the proposal for a law on museum action. At the very beginning, I would like to single out the fact that the members of the Committee participated precisely in the draft law on museum work. During a debate held on 4 February 2021 in the National Assembly, the Committee members asked the members of the working group and the representatives of the ministries and had concrete proposals related to this law, in order to improve the law. Then, at a session held on 25 March 2021, the Committee supported the adoption of the Bill's proposal, given that for the first time, as the Minister also said in the Republic of Serbia, legal frameworks for the editing and part-time work of museums, the way they are protected, the use and processing of museum buildings, as well as other issues that are important for improving the work of museums, which according to the data of the Republic Bureau of Statistics and the Institute for the Study of Cultural Development have a total of 149. It will clearly define the obligations of museums, as well as their founders, the regulation of professional titles and ultimately improve working conditions, so that museums with full capacity to devote themselves to actually protecting movable cultural goods. One of the very important goals that will be achieved by passing this law is to tighten the criminal policy, which will contribute to the protection and preservation of the museum building, which Mrs Gojkovic has insisted on in her work so far as she is a minister of culture and information. In the end, I would also like to point out that this area has long been neglected, which is the fact that museum activity was governed by the Cultural Goods Act, which was adopted long ago in 1994. The Committee on Culture and Information is of the opinion that the adoption of this law is a necessary condition for the smooth functioning and operation of museums, which will round up legal regulations and ensure full protection and preservation of museum buildings in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the second law, also as an authorised rapporteur of the Committee, I will brief you on the reasons why this committee also proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that this bill on the declaration of the old and rare library building, for the cultural well-being of exceptional importance, be accepted. Also, I would like to inform you that the representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Information, at a session held on 25 March 2021, explained to the committee members, this proposal for a decision, noting that it was created, as a result of long-term research and study of written and printed old and rare books, which the experts of the National Library of Serbia, as well as other relevant scientific and cultural institutions, started in 2015. In view of their particular importance for science and culture, a procedure has been launched to give 720 old and rare books the greatest categorization in terms of protection, and these are cultural goods of exceptional importance. On the basis of all that has been stated, I call on fellow Members of Parliament, in the day of the vote, to support these two draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4763	Thank you. Rapporteur Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4764	Thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, Mrs Gojkovic, with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, has assessed that the proposal for a law on museum activity and the proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being is of great importance, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I really expect a quality debate in the tide, because today we have a debate, in principle, about a whole new law. As my colleague, the Committee's rapporteur, Mrs Christmas, also said, was adopted in 1994 by the Cultural Goods Act. Certainly, since then, much has changed in our legal system, the legislative system, and in our society in general. We need to regulate each area, by a special law, in a systematic way, in order to give a certain legislative framework for a serious and stable legislative system concerning the area of culture, in our country. We must bear in mind and the importance of the museum building, as part of the cultural heritage, which we will guard to understand our history and to preserve our history, but also because of future generations to which we will provide another driver of economic growth, education, tourism and even the culture of our society. We can see that the Government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the great importance of culture and cultural heritage and their potential for our country's development. The government adopted several important documents, of which it would certainly highlight the Culture Development Strategy for the period from 2020 to 2029, and the Action Plan to facilitate the implementation of the strategy I cited. I would just like to, Mrs. Gojkovic, take this opportunity to thank you for being a part of a project I spoke about at one of the previous sessions in Nis. The National Theatre will be reconstructed and a small scene will be built and I just want to thank you and to convey how important this is for my fellow citizens. First of all, because Nis is one of the first cities to enter the history of the Serbian theatre, they were then famous, i.e. There were so-called traveling ensembles, i.e. traveling families, and one performance, which marked that period, i.e. the development of that activity, in Nis, happened in 1883, and this was a performance performed in connection with the jubilee, on the anniversary of the marriage of King Milan and Queen Natalija Obrenović. The merger of these traveling groups created the theatre "Sigelić", in Nis, which is now located in the city centre, right on Sijedic's square. I want to thank the Serbian government for helping us first of all to preserve cultural heritage, to preserve from forgetting the fact that culture in Nis has evolved over the centuries. I also want to thank you for allowing us to enjoy some future theatre performances in a more quality way, to develop our city and to expand the range of offers not only to our fellow citizens but also to our tourists. At the very end, I can't help but comment on your statements stating that you have found contracts signed by certain mob leaders and that you have submitted that documentation to the investigative authorities to determine whether or not it was from your ministry that you led in some criminal activities. I certainly will not comment further on the ongoing investigation, but I wanted to make it clear to you personally as Vice-President of the Government and Government of the Republic of Serbia, and, above all, Alexander Vukic has the absolute and unreserved support of the MPs of the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children in the fight against crime, of course, remains on state authorities to examine and determine. At the very end, I would like to invite my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support your proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4765	Thank you. Before we move on to the parliamentary groups, i.e. the presidents or representatives, I would just like to inform you, although you have already been informed in writing that the motions for amendments to the Law on Judges, that is, the 3rd item of the agenda, which was to be considered in the context of a joint principle and uniform review of the third and sixth points of the agenda. So tomorrow we will conduct a single search of the 6th item of the agenda, a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Negotin, the Court of Fundamental Court in Kruševec and the Court of Fundamental Court in Novi Pazar. In the other part, the work plan is the way I told you yesterday remains unchanged, which means we'll continue the session on Tuesday. It is planned to consider, in the context of a single search, item 4 of the agenda – the draft law on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges, and on Wednesday, a search was planned in particular on the 1st item of the agenda – a draft law amending the Law on the List of Population, Households and Apartments in 2021 for when the vote on the agenda of this session was also scheduled. Next Thursday we would have a new session with one item on the agenda – Selecting the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. We're moving on. Now we have moved on to the presidents, or authorized representatives, the word is Muammer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4766	President-in-Office, honourable Deputy Prime Minister Gojkovic and Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, we Members of the Justice and Reconciliation Party are happy to participate in all topics in the work of this Assembly, but it is our special pleasure and special joy when issues and topics from the field of culture appear before us. In our programme and in our orientation, we have a firm belief that culture is actually a foundation and a fundamental dimension of the values of individuals and communities and that it must never and in no way be neglected. What makes me happy is that regardless of the environment of the crisis in which the country is located, we have the capacity to deal with these delicate and delicate issues. It's something that we'll certainly support for joy. The museum's work and the law that is before us, which governs this area, as we hear and explain it is a very important step, especially because of the fact that for so many years, even decades, we have had this issue, very neglected and finally, with this law, that is, this legal framework, we will get the basis so that we can first and foremost protect the museum building, and then give it that real and real role. Museums, museum exhibits play a multi-relevant and multi-layer role in every society. The basic and elemental role is that it is available to all citizens, tourists from the country and abroad and that, therefore, in this elemental sense and role is, in fact, one of the testimony levels of the state itself, the level of society as a whole. How much society, i.e. our society holds to itself and in these shades and, in fact, by the quality of the organization of the museum, by the standard of accommodation and protection of museum exhibits, you will actually evaluate at first sight without having to enter so deeply into what cultural level is one society, or one state. That is why I consider this a very important step, where we will have a system-based issue of museum activity and in terms of protection, but also in terms of roles, i.e. real dynamics, cultural dynamics that can be based on museums, or museum exhibits. In addition to this elemental role, so the availability of a museum building to everyone, i.e. representation in some way of the face or cultural face of the state, nation, citizen, people and all communities. In addition, museum construction is actually a very important scientific material. And that's also what I believe this law will make it easier and even easier, and that even more significant aspect and role of museums, i.e. museum exhibits and museum buildings. So it is basic and it is that citizens can see it, enjoy it, educate themselves, observe and analyse museum exhibits, and thus confirm and refresh their own identity and stability and security in their own identity, but in addition, it is of great importance to actually view museum buildings as a scientific treasure and that is what should actually be a higher level of the role of cultural treasure of this kind, or museum buildings and museum exhibits, because a common observer has access to the museum exhibit, its experience in terms of identity and its own culture. But the scientist at the museum exhibit, or museum building, he sees, I won't say, just one testimony, on the contrary, the museum build and the museum exhibit represents some kind of beginning of the ball from which the scientist, the real scientist, the quality scientific detachment of the entire bench, the web of testimony about our history, that is, our past. It means a great deal to me that we will now and through this law be able to dynamic this aspect of the use and role of museum buildings and museum exhibits. So, one of the problems of history as science or more precisely, history as scientific discipline, and today we didn't agree, scientists didn't agree on how much history science is, how much scientific discipline is there and how useful it is for hysteria to insist on the exclusion that only a material indicator speaks about the past and testimonials of the past, because as much as we have achieved, so either achieved or achieved cultural and material heritage through archaeological architecture, it's a very small percentage of the testimony of the past, and that's why it's of great importance, in addition to the discovery of these exhibits, their protection and availability of exceptional importance and improvement of scientific and cultural reading of these exhibits, and that's why we need to be tasked, for the future and for the near future, to actually make it accessible, scientists and to make it easier for scientists to understand the sciences of science and science that we'll be able to be able to understand it inscience , because ofscience , becausewe 'll be able to be able to read the young people inscience , and inscience , and to be able to be able to be able to understand it to be able to understand thescience , to understand it to understand it to understand thescience , and to understand it to understand thescience , and to understand thescience , and to be in thescience , and to be inscience , and to be in thescience , and tounderstand , and to be in theart. What also delights me, is that this law will achieve a higher degree of protection and construction, not only in the final stage of the standards of regulation of the museum itself, but hopefully in the overall process, archaeological events than the discovery itself at a particular site, then the excavations themselves, and then full protection and availability, but before the excavations themselves, it is necessary to strengthen the protection of the potential locations themselves, where there are or there are certain indicators, that quality archaeological structures can be found. I am saying this, which I am simply and through certain scientific activities, but also the possession of information and observation, as well as the fact that I live in Sandzak space, or Novi Pazar, so the locality where cultures and civilizations have been intertwined for thousands of years, since the Neolithic period, through cave culture, then very rich material cultural heritage and heritage, as far as Ilirski, and within the Ilirski and Danish and other peoples and cultures, and then in the Middle Ages, then a new age. We have an extremely archaeologically rich space. True, it has been, in particular lately, intense archaeological activities of the museums in Novi Pazar, but parallel to these are active and diverse, to say thieves, robbers and searchers for treasure and gold, cultural and this and that, unfortunately, which cause great damage to that structure and these potentials, and it would be of great importance to strengthen the protection of these sites, because it's very much, there's even a category, so on. in a people of famous Greek cemeteries, I'm not sure they're all Greek, but for the ordinary world, everything from an ancient age is Greek, but still, it's important that such cemeteries are still unexplored and very often tipped to us by people from certain places, villages, whose vicinity are these sites, that they simply woke up and saw certain digs and holes in those cemeteries that have grown in bushes, grasses, etc. We should step up this activity, everywhere, there are other parts of Serbia that are very rich in this building and where many cultures and civilizations are intertwined, but this is what we are eyewitnesses and that I believe this law will make it more important to be protected. What I want to point out, and hopefully the same thing with this law is going to get a framework, is the arrangement where the exhibits go, the archaeological exhibits after the excavation, let's go where they go in the research process itself, that's equally important, but it's also important where they're being held back. I think you should legally protect actually that the site where these exhibits were found, actually be at a museum that covers that site. I have some information whether because of this legal indecision, whether for some other reason that many museum exhibits, or archaeological materials from the space of Novi Pazar, Okolica, Sandzak, Cave, have gone from that space, some have returned to the museum in Novi Pazar, and some have not returned. So that's something I find very important. It's not an ethnic or religious issue here right now, it's a matter of locality. I think these exhibits should be a witness to the area where they were found, that is to be located in the museum, so where they were actually found, because they are actually speakers of the past, first of all of that space. That's what we should pay attention to if we have a basis in this law, but if there's no such thing as sublegals where the implementation of this law will be arranged. I am pleased and thank you, dear Minister, for your response to these ideas that we have received from the SPC and which has even been to the College and there have been different reflections in this direction. Certainly, cultural space should be regulated, including the museum's work of churches and religious communities, but it is very important that you gave such an answer and that you reminded you of the law, or, above all, the Constitution and constitutional principles that guarantee the equality of all churches and religious communities, also, the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, which guarantees equality of churches and religious communities, thank you for reminding you of that, is often forgotten. Because it's understandable, in this country, that about 70% of the population of Serbian nationality, Orthodox religion, and that is, in itself, the dominant fact that you don't have to point out. It will in itself produce its effects and its reflections because of so much domination and we have no problem with it, nor do we have a problem with it. There may be problems there when it is forgotten that about 30% of non-Serb nationalities live in this country or that in this country, besides the Serbian Orthodox Church, we have a significant number of traditional religious communities, including the Islamic community. So it is very important that we, as the most legislative, the most representative and most supervised body, never forget and ignore this fact, especially because it is a constitutional obligation, a constitutional legal category, but also a general cultural civilization category. We have repeatedly pointed out that this diversity represents exclusively wealth, and in no way a lack or problem. Of course, if you have such domination, both ethnically and culturally, and in religion, it will also mean monumental and museumal, and it is a fiction with which no normal person should have a problem, but in fact, it does not mean that it should allow other churches and religious and community, or other cultural treasures to be neglected in any way. I like the idea of solving this with a special law, that at all matters of culture and cultural treasures of churches and religious communities, including museum work, be resolved by a special law, but with a full sense of culture, cultural treasure, cultural identity, museum construction, other religious communities and churches. In fact, I think it is our role to represent both this colourfulness and the National Assembly, but also the colourfulness that we have in the ethnic structure, the citizens of this country are also in our legislative work. As for the second topic, or agenda point, which we will give our contribution to the debate today and ultimately adopt a decision on the status of the special to give library buildings of particular importance, that is what I particularly consider to be an important, cultural and political step. Yes, all material and immaterial monuments are important, all of this is of great importance and must never be neglected, but the book is something that should in cultural terms have the highest degree of holiness in all segments of society, and especially at the level of us who are chosen by citizens to care about it and to pass laws. So I especially welcome this, and I especially support it, and I think it's particularly important, because there's a lot of book buildings of extraordinary importance, even manuscripts. I have witnessed that a serious foundation of manuscripts and old books, some of which are hundreds of years old, is located in the library of the International University of Novi Pazar, but I am also afraid that there is a lot of things in the Islamic community, there is a lot of this building and in the private possessions of citizens who inherited it from their ancestors. However, what is common for all these materials is that they are not technically protected enough and that we have very much, as it can be said, diseased paper, or endangered buildings, physically endangered buildings. I therefore hope that this decision, too, will constitute a legislative basis and an important framework in order to make it more intensive from the position of the Ministry of Culture, I have no doubt that there will be understanding, primarily from the minister, but also from other competent authorities, to enable the institutions of culture and education, libraries and others who own that building or who can come to that building, therefore, to enable them to have these rehabilitation equipment of old manuscripts, I know that there is very little, but I think that it should be refreshed here in Belgrade, but also allowed in other cultural institutions to obtain these equipment, but first of all to move forward with the protection activities and build. It's about very high-quality manuscripts. Those who have been in Arabic, I have had opportunities and some of them to work, but many of them are, above all, defined even in Persian. So it's about a building that has extraordinary cultural importance, and I believe that this decision to declare library building of particular importance, giving it the status that will actually enable the state through the Ministry of Culture to take what is needed in order to actually protect it, first and foremost, and then to protect it from being available to those activists and the consequences of science in order to actually have insight and benefit from what the content of this building is. So, with this seriousness towards cultural themes, I'm simply recovering optimism that we won't stay or become slaves to purely materialistic subjects from economy, bread, survive, not survive, they're important, but they're biology. Unless we save our souls, unless our biology and our physical framework is a protection for the soul and a pleasant habitat of the soul, I'm afraid we can't count on a real, bright, happy and personal and collective future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4767	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4768	Thank you. Let me just tell you for a second. Thank you for your content discussion, Your Honor, Mr. Zukorlic. Thank you for commending my part of the discussion concerning the equality of religious communities in our country by the Constitution and separation from the state. It's certainly one of the options for a Lex specialization, which we talked about with SPC, to think and possibly, about a law that would unite and regulate even a sacral heritage for all religious communities. So we will certainly do this not only with the profession that deals with museology, but also with representatives of all traditional religious communities in our country, because I have talked to everyone about the character of this law that we are passing and what we should do to unite and to museum institutions that exist by the Serbian Orthodox Church. We have a Jewish museum here in Belgrade, and museums are announced both at the Catholic Church and by the Islamic community. I learned this in direct contacts and conversations, and I hope that we will all find good solutions together to protect this kind of cultural heritage, which is extremely important for our spaces. You mentioned archaeological excavations going on all over our country. There's something authorized, and there's a lot of unauthorized. The central institution that did this is the National Museum, experts outside the National Museum. Then when something was legally done in front of the state, then the National Museum took over what was found. However, we are now working on the draft law on cultural heritage. We will soon get that here in parliament, hopefully the Law on the Protection of immovable cultural goods, so in a better way we will regulate and regulate who will take over these archaeological excavations after finding certain parts of our country and that will be much more precisely arranged. From 2017 to 2020, the Ministry of Culture and Information funded a good project of the Serbian Archaeological Society. Lectures took place in 33 cities across Serbia. The manual is just good and practical. It is intended for all, including ordinary citizens who have noticed that someone is doing something unauthorized, digging up certain values that he finds and takes over for himself or does reselling, which is usually happening. In fact, it's easy to see from that manual that it's not a black and white situation, because everyone's talking to the Ministry of Culture and Information, and they think it's our fault, and it's one whole chain where everyone has to react in a certain way, as it's explained in that manual. So the links in the chain are the courts, and the prosecution, and the police, and local self-government, and even those ordinary citizens who really don't know what to do at these moments, because we all have a duty together to respect certain international conventions that our country has joined. We will pay particular attention to this when we pass these two important laws that will define exactly archaeological excavations - to whom they belong, who is responsible after finding certain important artifacts in parts of our country's territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4769	Thank you. The word is Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4770	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Gojkovic, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, was written in a 2010 book of impressions – we plus you are equal to magic. It also became a logo for the European Museum of the Year several years later. The record from one book of impressions easily becomes a formula for the work of museums and the organisation of museum work. The museum consists not of four walls and a roof, but of what is in it - cultural and artistic heritage, stories told by exhibits, traces of history written in time. All this together makes the museum a museum. The ideal picture for me, as an association to the museum, I don't think it's utopian, looks like an endless order of people waiting to enter while their curiosity and expectations enhance the comments and the amazing views of those who just finished visiting the museum. With equal enthusiasm, gleaming in the eyes and joy understand, enthrall the soul and at least for a moment a different view of the world experience reality and grandmother Stan, housewife from the first floor and preschooler who wants to see an even carefree pregnant woman and tired warrior, etc. And everyone knows and feels that they need a museum just as they need it. The essence and goal is actually to create an atmosphere where the museum will need people, not suffering as necessary evil. The museum must not be an untouchable, falsely important and authoritarian institution. By passing this law, firstly, it is necessary to protect cultural and historical wealth and preserve it for future generations. The preservation of the wealth we already have, which is often kept in the unconditional basements and spaces, should be and should be a guideline of this law that addresses a number of issues of importance for the work of institutions, applying good practices from the world to which we look. As a society, we have various periods of history, from the history of art, too, which have remained insufficiently known to young generations and for only one reason mainly – are not properly preserved traces of these eras. Today, when we have this consciousness, it is our obligation to preserve for the future what we possess from past times, from our present, but also from what is before us, to leave our descendants more than our ancestors have left us. Let me relax this chamber atmosphere in this home, make a joke and say, "Don't let future generations ask us what you're doing." We must never lose sight of the importance of the museum building, not only for history, science and culture, but also for meeting the needs of citizens. I think the law absolutely meets these needs, and for every commendation, the systematic arrangement of this matter and preservation of the museum building. Throughout history, we have often changed cultural policy models according to historical moments and needs and depending on large historical, social and systemic changes. A good part or at least one of these models could be applied today at least in that part of the availability of museum settings and construction for all Serbian citizens. It is necessary to allow, encourage and facilitate the co-operation of museums through the organisation of travelling exhibitions in order to bring the culture closer to the citizens to the maximum, so that citizens from cities and villages around Serbia do not have to come to Belgrade or Novi Sad to see some museum setting and significant works. To bring culture closer to everyone, to make it available to everyone is the motto of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. For us culture represents the mental health and identity of one country and, of course, the entire society. Today, not everyone can sit in a car and travel 200 kilometers to visit a museum. They are citizens, especially young people, who are eager to know and should be able to do so. In this way, the constant change in museum settings would also increase the number of visitors, and this would all have an impact on that financial moment. Not going back to the history of cultural models. It's just enough to say that early in the 21st century cultural energy was awakened through individual examples of creation, but not through the activities of the state and changes in the legal frameworks. That's why I think this was the last moment to pass a law like this that would finally regulate, improve and modernise museum activity and build by respecting good practices, but of course the moment we live in. We know that the largest number of museums and cultural goods protection institutions are not able to carry out regular work properly. Because of the problem of insufficient funding by local self-government of a particular cultural institution, museums have also been brought to the brink of endurance. A particular problem is the lack of space for the accommodation of cultural goods. In any case, such a law promoting the framework of museum operations introduces standards and clear practices, conditions of establishment, preservation, study, documentation, protection and presentation of museum buildings unequivocally constitute the basis and basis of the systematic arrangement of the museum's work within the framework of the preservation of Serbia's cultural heritage. The world has long recognized museums as important elements of economic growth, the tourist offer of a country and, of course, an extremely important condition for understanding the past and the future, which you spoke of in the opening presentation. The stay of tourists in Serbia and Belgrade can provide much more, much more quality and interesting content outside of the one about nightlife. Serbia's tourism organisation is the best example with its work, it shows and confirms by its pawn, that it points out such quality content first in terms of the tourist offer both Serbia and Belgrade. The treasure in our museums and cultural and scientific invaluable is a testimony to life in our country, our fellow citizens, times and social opportunities. In 1844, the Education Minister Jovan Sterija Popovic's command laid the foundations for the collection, preservation and demonstration of the museum building. The most important newspaper adopted by this law, in addition to the law itself being new and regulating only museum work, is the most important newspaper, certainly the formation of a museum council to deal with the development and improvement of museum work, to explore the models of cooperation between museums and related educational institutions, which is certainly an idea for full support and commendation. Develop cooperation between professional, scientific and international institutions as well as cooperation of museums with communities where museums and museums serve. Of course, the provision that work within the framework of museum work can be performed only and exclusively by professionals for this trained, with the obligation to pass an expert examination, is exactly what we need, especially from the aspect of understanding this treasure that we must preserve. Digitalisation, of course, as a way of keeping, but also showing museum building, is certainly a job for the future and respects both the technological and civilizational moment in which we live, and the law is, which is extremely important to the SDPS parliamentary group, which is responsible for focus groups and sustainable development goals, the law is also seen from the corner of environmental protection, so that these are all small and individual reasons why we will gladly support the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4771	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Nandor Kish.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4772	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister Gojkovic, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to stress that the parliamentary group of the Duke Hungarian Union in the voting day will support the proposal for a law on museum activity, as well as a proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being of exceptional importance. We are pleased today to have the opportunity to discuss the proposal for a law on museum activity, and hence the importance of museums for members of national minorities. As I spoke in one of my previous exhibitions about the importance of culture, so I would like to talk about it now with a focus on museum work. Together in the proposal for a law on museum work, which regulates this matter for the first time since 1994, and the Decision to declare 720 old and rare books for cultural goods is the fact that objects of material and elements of the immaterial cultural heritage represent a testimony to the existence, organisation and functioning of society and state to preserve the national heritage, tradition, cultural identity and cultural diversity of a society. We are all aware of the need for a systematic arrangement of each individual area of protection of cultural goods in a comprehensive and meaningful way and therefore welcome the adoption of this regulation, which among other things regulates the system of protection of museum construction, conditions and way of performing museum work and so on. In fact, it was high time to prepare a legal framework for solving problems that occurred in the past in the daily life of the museum. Lack of money, too little room to store buildings, incomplete documentation, and similar difficulties in the work of individual institutions. A change in the legal framework will allow for these issues to be resolved. The bill is important because it offers new solutions to regulate burning issues, such as lack of employees, finance and lack of adequate space, as well as to systematically resolve the conditions for the establishment of museums, the preservation of museum buildings, the way of exposure, inter-museum co-operation, the digitisation of museum building, the introduction of a single information system. Among other things, the aim of this law is to resolve the networking system of museums in certain groups. The time has come to set up a new system, allowing museums to expand their own building to become as interesting as possible for visitors. Our parliamentary group certainly supports this initiative. The museum documentation shall contain analogue and digital data on the museum building needed for professional processing, identification, designation of origin and determination of the state of supply, professional processing, as well as evaluation of the value. We all know that digitisation is one of the most important objectives of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the past few years, and it is necessary if we want to follow world trends. In all, there are 149 museums in Serbia, 54 of them in Vojvodina, and libraries have preserved 2,286 old and rare books so far, as a mobile cultural good. Libraries preserve heritage for future generations and develop awareness of the importance of this heritage, testifying about extremely important, cultural, historical events and personalities and having exceptional artistic and aesthetic value. Let me talk a little bit more about the number of museums. As I just mentioned, there are 1,49 museums established by the Republic, the province, local self-government, but there are also private museums in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Out of 54 institutions in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, five are the founder of the AP Vojvodina, with seven local self-governments, and 42 are private property. Among the aforementioned museums in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, there are several who are of particular importance to national minorities, so those who have been designated as institutions of particular importance for one or more national minorities in accordance with the Law on National Minorities Councils of National Minorities. I would remind all of us that this possibility continues to exist in the applicable National Small Councils Act, that these provisions have not been deleted, that they remain in the law and after the Constitutional Court's decision to declare certain provisions of the National Minority Councils Act against the Constitution. I would particularly like to emphasise here and praise the fact that the proposal for a law on museum activity is fully in line with both the National Councils of National Minorities Act and the Law on the Jurisdictions of the AP Vojvodina. Thus, the statutes of six institutions on the territory of the AP Vojvodina state that these museums are of special importance to the Hungarian national minority. These museums include the City Museum in Subotica, the City Museum in Vienna, the City Museum in Somboro, the City Museum in Novi Sad, the City Museum in Zrenjanin, the City Museum in Vienna and the Theatre Museum in Vojvodina. To point out that the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority is among the founders and the Museum of the Municipality of Backo Topola. Someone would think that the significance of these small museums is not great, since they do not own large museum buildings or a large exhibition space for exhibiting their exhibits. However, in the Union of Duke Hungarians, we believe that we cannot and must not forget even smaller museums. For the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, it is of particular importance and the fact that the bill on system law solves often decades of problems that are significant for almost all museum spaces. So since 2019, the Grand Hall of the City Museum in Vienna has been out of use because of the abundant rainfall and depletion of the roof, the ceiling has partly begun to collapse. At the end of 2019, as part of the current maintenance, the most problematic part of the roof was renovated, reinforced and around 30% of new creps were placed. The poor condition of museum depots housed more than 16,000 objects and various collections threatens to destroy the cultural and historical treasures of the Becej municipality in the long run. The authorities say that the construction of new deposits and work offices requires about 70m dinars, while the construction of the exhibition space would triple that amount, so it is most realistic and rational to undertake reconstruction of the museum building in several stages. A little more about the little museums. The role of the Museum of the Municipality of Backo Topol can be seen from several angles. The museum, of course, performs its usual museum activities, such as the collection of buildings from the environment, its archiving and the organization of exhibitions, but it does not cover half the daily work of the museum, because it performs an extremely significant educational work in terms of the dissemination of information on history, the way of life in the past, preserves, shares and transmits information about individual surrounding cultures. In addition, workshops are often organized for students to get closer acquainted with museum work. Another great potential for the museum is to be part of the offer of tourist attractions of local self-government. And they are aware of the fact that the future of museum work, in addition to organising exhibitions of contemporary art and other activities, lies in digitisation and in a gradual transition to virtual space. This is the challenge of the 21st century, which has increased significantly over the past two, three years. Since then museum associates have begun to digitise content, monitor new trends on social networks, videos, and virtual exhibitions. This has recently started to apply in practice. For example, a historical fact was taken into consideration that the great writers of the 19th century, Aran Janos of Hungary and Jovan Jovanovic the Dragon, were friends and exchanged many letters. The actors of the Subotic National Theatre played these scenes through short episodes in authentic costumes, and this example of the past helped to bring friendships closer to the students. We in the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians believe that in the 21st century, one of the most important roles of the museum will be to cultivate the tradition and culture of the people on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, both the majority and national minorities. It is extremely important to allow national minorities to contact institutions that cultivate their culture and identity. We hope that in the future, the level of co-operation will increase and that the new law on museum activity will allow for the lies and better management of museum networks, so that we together can preserve the diversity of cultures and the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4773	I thank Nandor Kisha. The word has the mandated representative of the Single Serbia Group, Zagorka Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4774	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, the JS Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a law on museum action in the day of voting, as well as a very important decision on the declaration of an old and rare library building for cultural well-being of exceptional importance. This law, as the first specialized law to be regulated, is necessary, modern, in line with European legislation and will bring one systematic approach to the organisation of museum work, improve the protection of museum buildings and cultural goods, improve the museum network, create conditions for improving the structure and organisation of work of museum works. By passing this law, we are leaving the outdated legislative framework for which this area has been regulated. We can see that there is a quiet but fundamental reform in Serbia regarding the regulation of the culture sector at all. We consider the very commendable initiative of Minister Gojkovic, who, in November 2020, appeared to me, requested an audit of the funds of all cultural institutions in Serbia. That was really necessary. If we look back at the period over the past year, we can conclude that cultural activity worldwide is extremely affected by the pandemic, but Serbia is really trying to find a way for culture to survive with the imperative of the health care of all individuals, both those who work in culture and audiences. Investment in capital cultural institutions, such as the Nikola Tesla Museum, the Yugoslav Museum, the Low National Theatre, the adoption of valid legal frameworks that will modernise and facilitate the functioning of cultural institutions, makes it clear that Serbia is not only giving up on the survival of culture but also on continued investment in culture. At the initiative of JS President Dragan Markovic, this is very important to mention, a new cultural centre is being built in Jagodina, which will be the largest cultural centre in Serbia and will not be significant only for the people of Jagodina, but will be an institution of culture of regional importance. The Museum's Labour Act specifies the introduction of a museum council, the museum's network establishes and precisely defines a new hierarchy in the business of introducing parent museums, and also specifies the possibility of establishing private museums. However, it is the state that together with local self-government is the founder of the largest number of museums. It's the state that has to worry and influence the dominant cultural policy. It is the state that must draw clear boundaries between culture and entertainment. She must not pull the boundaries, but build the walls between culture and estherade. We think it's very important because of younger generations that not only through home education, but also through educational institutions and socialization, they should learn to distinguish these things in general. In particular, young people whose growing up and forming cultural taste and aesthetic values are affected by various content on electronic media, as well as on social networks. New types of communication have the power to wipe the boundaries between the content of popular and high culture on one side, but on the other, they allow completely new ways of interpreting cultural heritage, so at this time of the pandemic we can enjoy some virtual tours of world museums and galleries for a moment. Today following an instagram warrant, for example. The National Museum gives us the opportunity to learn details of many important, valuable works of the National Museum. It is a similar case, I would like to set an example at the home of Jevrem Grujic, a private museum institution that organises interactive exhibitions, performances, and concentrates its work on researching the history and culture of the modern Serbian state, as well as with the Museum of Books and Travel, within which is the Museum of Sprski Literature of the Adligat Association. Serbia is the country of the museum with its geographical position, rich and violent history, the specificity of all the regions and the cultural specialities that they cherish. In our country, there is a huge potential for cultural tourism development, whose headquarters, right now, should be museums. The Museum of Yugoslavia, the Nikola Tesla Museum, the National Museum, the Museum of Contemporary Art, are visited by tourists from the region and across Europe, of course in normal conditions. There is also the Matice Gallery of Serbian, Vojvodjan museums, then localities such as Viminations, Lepenski Vira, Felix Romulana, then there is Pashin Konak in Vranja, the Museum of naive and marginal art in Jagodina. I would also mention the Museum of wax figures, which is a special institution of culture now, of this city, and was founded on the initiative of the president of the JS. It would probably take forever to list all the museums and to discuss where they are, whether they are reconstructed, and many have been reconstructed, whether further reconstruction is planned, but we can conclude that the potential is enormous. Two thousand eighteenth year, two authors published a very important study titled "Museums in Serbia as part of a cultural tourist offer for families with children", which is the publisher of the Institute of Economic Sciences. In addition to a number of useful guidelines that are implicated in this study, I would set out as an important suggestion, i.e. a comment that Serbia must work on the attractiveness of its museum offer. The museums, by the way, have long not been a privilege of high classes and elites, are now available to everyone, but what I would like to set out as our advantage is that the ticket price for our museums is very favourable. Konak Knez Miloša, Konak Princess Ljubica, Museum of Vuk and Dosite, Museum of Theatre Art, Museum of Science and Engineering, citizens can visit only two, three euros, and children generally pay nothing. Let's just look at some European examples, the ticket to the Palace of Weapons in Moscow is 40 eras, the ticket to the Austrian Empress Elizabeth Sisi Bavaria Museum is 20 euros in Vienna, Mozart's home house in Salzburg is being visited by 12 euros. People who visit cultural institutions are looking for a recognizable cultural heritage. The complete legacy of Nikola Tesla's greatest scientist of all time is a world-renowned cultural heritage. Our cultural heritage is also Andrić and Crnjanski and Lubarda, and Šumanović and Uros Predić and Paja Jovanovic. There is also the immaterial one, such as the Serbian wheel, which the president of JS is constantly talking about and which UNESCO has placed in the order of the world's cultural immaterial heritage. Perhaps the time has come to ask ourselves whether we should affirm some of the forgotten personalities of the unjustly marginalized historical events. I will give just one example that came to mind, here, in Serbia, as everyone knows in 1903, a bloody coup took place in which the royal couple Obrenovic was killed. Serbia has no museum house, no museum of memory of this event. Someone will say the artifacts are missing, they disappeared on the night of the coup, their stuff was sold at European auctions. The last Obrenovics do not have their own legislation, they do not have their own museum, and the family house of Draga Obrenović in Lunjevica is constantly failing. However, they live through historical memories, through research by Serbian prominent scientists and scientists and stand as one memory and live through various aspects of interpretation in popular culture. The royal park seems to have no official place in Serbia's cultural history. Valorisation of the last Obrenovic, I believe, will remain very problematic today after 118 years, if we exclude an example of the museum of the mine-takov region, which cherishs memories of the masculine murdered queen and villa Zlatni brig, the summer house residence of the last Obrenovic near Smederev. Why am I saying this and why do I think this is all important? Because interest in this historic period and this event does not affect both the professional and the general public. It seemed that a forgotten family house, once the museum of Vajar Tom Rosandić, was also forgotten, and besides whose sculpture "Playing Crows", here at the entrance to this esteemed home, my colleagues and I pass daily. But the encouraging news of this facility was heard at the beginning of the year when the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments announced that they would request funds from the Resort Ministry for the restoration of this museum. A contemporary museum visitor in the cultural institution is not only looking for artifacts of the past, but for a story, a complete event and a unique experience. We from the JS believe that Serbian, cultural identity is unique, because the union of national and cosmopolitan, the union of tradition and avant-garde. He's unique, because this is where the East and the West come together. Serbian museums deserve to take the primary place on Serbia's cultural map. On behalf of the citizens of this House, we expect the state to continue to encourage the work of cultural institutions, as well as the development of cultural life in Serbia, because we will only continue to work, but also help to promote and identify ideas and constructive discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4775	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4776	Thank you for your really inspiring and educational speech. I'm glad you've been doing so much of our country's cultural offer, especially with a view to museums. I am a supporter of the fact that without a combination of culture, education and tourism, we will not be able to work on creating a new audience for these cultural institutions. I'm glad you listed this manual, which is called, if I'm not wrong, "Museums in Serbia for families with children" and that's important. We should maybe publish more widely and work on it with young parents to realize that there's fun and past malls and past artificial playgrounds, no matter how much I realize it's the 21st century and now parties are different from when I was little, so my parents took me to children's theatres and museums, because the other one wasn't there. In addition to the playgrounds, to the malls, to the cafes, if you want to have children who won't give in to that spine that prevails, maybe in some parts we can say media offers and something else, then you have to work with children of the smallest age and go for example. at the Science Museum and the technique that also has a special playground where you can make birthdays or play children, but there are children who have anything to see and learn at the earliest age. Not to say, one of you mentioned, perhaps Natasha Vacic in his statement that today not everyone can cross 200 kilometers and go to some museum, but surely there are museums in the nearest area of the local, regional type. All you have to do is think about it for a day in your life, or one weekend, to make a tour of the museums in your area. It's a special experience, a special fulfillment when you see something new, when you learn something from our history. When you go to the National Museum and discover that our National Museum is not lagging behind many of the world's museums, because many of us for 15 years as long as the National Museum was closed, perhaps longer, you'll be able to correct, they couldn't see that treasure that we own. We have an overall presentation in the collections of Serbian painting in the 19th and 20th centuries, not to mention that we have those images that we look at only in some illustrations or textbooks of Picasso, Renoir, Mona and many other significant names from the world history of painting or fine art, whatever. Today, the term painting is more used, and I use more fine art. You mentioned the House of Jevrem Grujic, where I stayed last week. There, it is a good example of a private museum, how a good initiative can be revived, to draw the attention of the general public and the many tourists it has largely, or before the pandemic in Belgrade. I also recommend that MPs, both from Belgrade and those who are not from Belgrade, walk away in a break, that is next to the 212 Athelje building and get to know in a nice way the works of our significant history. I agree with you that our royal house Obrenović does not have enough attention in our society, in the way you mentioned it, and that is that we do not have a museum dedicated to this important dynasty that has marked a part of our history in one reformatory way. There are some artifacts in Milosh's final, if you have the chance you can go and see. Let me tell you what the Ministry of Culture and Information is trying to do and I think we've succeeded, which is that two objects have been found, I think it was Canada in one auction house and it's been observed that there are items belonging to Queen Dragi Obrenović, the last queen of the Obrenović dynasty. We participated in that purchase and bought both items. I hope that soon he will come to Serbia and Belgrade and that we will have the opportunity to show the whole public. We would do nothing without Nikola Selakovic, without the foreign minister, who reacted very quickly when I showed him what we found and what we could return to Serbia. You're right, there's a lot of things on the list of auction houses, it's coming out of our country, and we haven't had any knowledge so far, or anyone's been doing it essentially. It is important that we react whenever important historical objects are found that once belonged to one of our dynastys and bring them back here to Serbia. I was in Switzerland a year or two ago, I went to visit the Philip Patek Museum, and there I was surprised and shocked to see watches that belonged to the royal pair Alexander and Dragi Obrenović. I don't know how well it's known that her sisters weren't killed in the May coup, that the female family was released to cross the border and they lived in Switzerland until about 20 years ago. We assume that the sale of a piece of these items actually used them for life. And it was also a surprise for our consulate when an older woman appeared, it was Sister Drage Obrenović, who brought the files, memoirs of her own, certain items and handed them over to our consulate, and at that time the Yugoslav public did not know that Sister Drage Obrenović lived a normal life, that they were alive and that the witnesses of that time. We're also working on that plan to get everything we can and everything we can get back to our country back, of course, in line with our financial opportunities. Today we have just handed over the candidacy, when you commended that our Serbian Colo managed to enter the UNESCO list of protected immaterial cultural heritage, for our plump, and we are convinced that next year we will be able to get on the list, and then we will go to the candidate of naive Slovak painting. So we're working on it, just quietly, quietly. I'm a man who likes to boast not of the moves I make, but of the results. When the results come, we'll celebrate it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4777	I thank the Minister of Culture. The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4778	Thank you, Vice President. The prominent Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Gojkovic, dear colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, today are on the agenda of two important draft laws in the field of culture. First, the area envisioned by the proposal for a law on museum activities is currently regulated, unfortunately, by the 1994 Cultural Goods Act, if I have the precise information, which, in terms of practical needs and requirements, due to its termological limitations, as well as the fact that since the time of adoption of this law 27 years ago in Serbia, a complete socio-political system and two constitutions have changed. This law is no longer, or for a long time, to meet the practical requirements of this area that today carries with it. All praises to you, dear Mrs Gojkovic, for coming to the Serbian parliament after 27 years with a proposal for a new law, which I think is very important to us. A colleague of Zagorka said one sentence that inspired me, which is that Serbia has many museums. I will be inclined to say that Serbia with its rich cultural and historical tradition is a museum in itself. Somehow, it seems to me that, as such, we may have been the most attractive yet, and we will only be. The aim of passing this law, and you are in the opening statement, seems to me, and said, is to systematically improve museum activity through strengthening museum institutions, as well as bringing the good practice of the world closer by applying the most modern museological standards. The serious problems we face here are certainly difficult conditions for the work of cultural goods protection institutions, which face insufficient space, funding problem, lack of expert staff and other problems that this law should address by establishing a regulatory basis that will provide for their more efficient work and development. This is the first law that specializes in the field of museum work and fully regulates it, since the law currently applied by its character determines the common issues of cultural goods, so there is no adequate solution for a lot of the problems that practice imposes on it. It is a great responsibility in cultural protection institutions to preserve and promote our cultural heritage and heritage, so we really need to provide them with all the conditions for work and development so that the rich historical assets of our country and society remain and the future generations to which we owe it. The creation of a legal framework, the rounding of legal regulation, the definition of museum obligations and museum founders, the improvement of conditions for museum work, and for the first time the organisation of the museum network are the most important changes that this law treats. He envisions the establishment of a museum council of the Republic of Serbia, which under the new law consists of five members elected by the minister on a proposal from the Central Institute, and from the ranks of experts, which is very important. The museum council, together with the Central Institute, parent museums, territorially competent museums and other museums from museum records, will form a network that organises and coordinates the work of all museums. The central site in the protection of the museum building is entrusted with the law to the National Museum in Belgrade, which will be renamed - the National Museum of Serbia. Note, he was founded by an indication of Education Minister Jovan Sterija Popovic in 1844, as the "Museum Servski", which was to gather together antiquities in one place and preserve them for posterity. It was founded with the idea of uniting in one place the entire Serbian cultural heritage and also performing its scientific and research work alongside the exhibition. As a central institution of the museum system, it is envisaged that the museum runs a central register and registers of cultural goods of exceptional importance in the Republic of Serbia, determines cultural goods of exceptional importance, proposes the goods of exceptional importance declared by the National Assembly and participates in the development strategy of cultural protection institutions. The important news in relation to the old law is that museum founders, besides the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province, legal entities, founding entities and entrepreneurs can be founders, so according to the founder, museums are divided into public and private ones. The possibility of establishing a community museum is set up to protect the preservation and identification and promotion of local, cultural goods, material and immaterial nature, which can be established both by individuals and associations. What is most important, all cultural goods will be protected by law, regardless of whose ownership they are. The decentralisation of culture is previously clearly set as one of the objectives of the restoring ministry, but it is also good that attention is also given to dealing with cultural goods and the way it is treated, so standards and controls are raised significantly in this regard. One of the biggest problems facing cultural protection institutions is, above all, financial nature, since in this regard they depend on local self-government, which are unable to finance them in a way that would enable them to meet all their regular activities adequately. The law addresses the issue by predicting the provision of financial resources, primarily from the Republic of Serbia's budget, then from the autonomous province and local self-government units. During the Coronation of the Virus, we have all seen how much culture we actually lacked, so I hope that the digitisation, mentioned in Article 18 in the context of the protection of documenting cultural goods, will go in the direction of the Internet presentation, adopted by the most famous museums in the world. I think we have this practice in the Louvre, in the English museums. Aware of the importance of new technologies in today's world and their presence in the lives of young people, it would be nice to try to bring our cultural heritage closer to younger generations, but also to take advantage of the opportunity to promote it in a broader context. In front of us today, at the initiative of the National Library of Serbia, and thanks to the Ministry of Culture and Information, and the proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being, in which there are as many as 720 old and rare books, whose age dates back to the 15th to the 19th century. From spiritual books and cereals dedicated to various lighthouses, to philosophical works, original manuscripts and the first printed editions of authors together represent artifacts of invaluable value. It seems to me that we are not quite aware, you were right when you talk about it, how much cultural wealth we have as a people. I look forward to this initiative that would be able to protect, but also promote our cultural heritage. The founding of the Medieval Museum of Serbia in the Sava Square, in the railway station, I have already talked about it in the tide, but I will repeat, next to Stefan Nemanje's monument, another indicator is that this government has both will and desire to promote, but also to protect our cultural heritage. Cultural identity is certainly one of the most important identities of a nation, a bond that connects us as individuals, which connects us to our ancestors, but also to future generations. Therefore, we must guard her, cherish her, and never forget her, nor be ashamed of her, for we have no reason to do so. What's most important is that cultures must not give up, because then we give up, first of all, ourselves and our identity. We should be proud of the fact that our material and immaterial cultural legacy has a centuries-old tradition. The testimonies of the history of our people and culture date back to the 11th, 12th and 13th centuries, long before some nations and states are created that today our right to it challenge and, more embarrassingly, our cultural treasures are adopted as their own. Mrs. Gojkovic, you understand what I'm talking about. And you yourself talked about the importance of educating our children first in a way that some modern playrooms, which I also agree, are necessary, are very attractive, but still a little bit more adapted or arousal, even better. I don't even think we have a problem with the fact that, as old as that law was, museums were more quality, but somewhere in the people's consciousness was lost at some point when it was primarily a relationship to their children. Is it because of the speed of life, maybe even parents are wrong, so it's easier to leave the child in the playroom than to walk him through a museum where he needs to hear and see all kinds of details? After me, these two important laws will be discussed by two serious names in the field of culture, Jelica Sretenovic and Jela Mihajlovic. I'm sure he'll say more and better. Besides loving culture and being an assistant to the board when you took the first step to improve what is the state of culture in the country, I don't know much. I'm learning and I hope I'm a good student, but you'll always have that support from me that seems to me to be unorthodox and necessary, which is that the Serbian public understands you, that this does not measure through the politics they are prone to, but through concrete acts that you did for a short period of time from the position of the culture minister. I have no doubt that we will have more laws to discuss here, I have no doubt that they will all be of quality and I have no doubt that one day we will be proud of the fact that we can say - well, we have participated in this work or voted on it. I wish you success. The Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will be happy to support both these two laws and everything that comes as a proposal from you. I am particularly pleased to have your conversation with the patriarch of Serbia and the agreement you made when it comes to the Serbian Orthodox Church Museum. It's important that we take a step in that too. I can't argue that we were in a meeting with, I think, a delegation from the Czech Republic, when the ambassador suggested something that really hurt me back then. She said -- you know, it wouldn't be bad for you to write down all your monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija somehow in some microchips. It was such an attack to me, not understanding what it was about. Then the woman said, under the circumstances that some people who have no conscience fall, might have to keep the information about where they existed, so that they could sometimes be restored. Unfortunately, apart from our writings and our memories, one percent of the monastery is permanently lost in Kosovo and Metohija, until the moment we get a chance to rebuild them, precisely because the vandal approach of some people can't measure what's cultural, or what's historical, or what's national value, except in the part where they try to make their own twisted history out of it and eventually take whatever it dates, as I said in the discussion, from the 11th, 12th and 13th centuries. So, note, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the People's MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia will support both laws. I wish you success in your work, so I'll see you with some new laws, I hope so soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4779	I thank Snow White Paunovic. The word is made by Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4780	Just for a little while. After talking to our patriarch, I had the opportunity to visit the Serbian Orthodox Church Museum, it was my first visit to this museum and I think it deserves a lot more attention from our public than it does now. It seems to me that more tourists abroad visit this beautiful museum with a significant collection, as much as possible in that small space in which the Serbian Orthodox Church Museum is located. Our public is not sufficiently familiar and we must encourage simply our people and all people who come to Belgrade, but also the Belgrade citizens to learn about history in this way, not only our churches, but the history of our country, but also to learn about the historical monuments of our culture, which are located in the territory of our southern province of AP Kosovo and Metohija. I can't agree with you that we've lost anything forever. We have not lost anything, we have lost only in that sense that we have not watched those terrible images of pogroms in KIM territory that have been happening over our people, but also brutal attempts to destroy our people's historical monuments and SPCs and those scenes. The ambassador was right when she spoke to you. I didn't attend that conversation, those scenes, the breaking of crosses on the roofs of our churches and monasteries, no one should ever forget, and every time we have to show both our and the world public. This year, the Ministry of Culture and Information in collaboration with the Republic Institute for the Protection of Monuments, of course, with difficult conditions, because access to these cultural monuments located in the KIM territory is somewhat difficult. We have a plan to work on the restoration and the Virgin Mary of Ljeviška, then the monastery of Banjska and the work on the restoration of iconostas in Dečana. So we work, we don't give up on it, because it's part of our identity in KIM territory. Our monuments are there and we treat these monuments with equal attention, as well as monuments in other parts of Serbia, and so it must be. After all, I think the world has increasingly heard of us, not of political attempts by another party, to display monuments on KIM territory as monuments of some other origin, rather than traces of the creation of a general Serbian state in those areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4781	I thank the minister. Replica, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4782	Less replica, more like an explanation. You've warned me well, I've said it badly. When I said that we permanently lost, then I really meant all those little churches that were burned and destroyed to the ground in that authentic one. We permanently lost them as authentic objects, which of course doesn't mean we don't have enough material to restore them to their natural state one day. But it is this bitter taste that remains of that pogrom that happened, really hard and simply somewhere that picture where you encounter perhaps one stone at the base or none where you know reliably where the church used to be is the hardest. Only in that sense did I say - I permanently lost, otherwise I share with you the view that nothing has ever been permanently lost especially on KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4783	Thank you for the clarification. For our children, there is a national MP Jelena Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4784	I would like to point out at the outset that the adoption of the Museum's Labour Act will make a significant contribution to the development of this area, and that the creation of this legal framework will certainly provide the Republic of Serbia with full protection and protection of the museum building, as well as the resolution of important issues in the area of museum work. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is certainly in the provisions of Article 97(10). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which among other things has been prescribed that the state of Serbia regulates a system for the protection of culture and protection of its cultural goods. Given the need for a systematic approach to the development of museum activity in their areas, which are closely specialised, the adoption of this law will also have one such clear system approach. This law, not only will regulate the protection of museum construction and immaterial cultural goods, but the documentation itself will be arranged, when we talk about museum documentation. The work structure of the museum's jurisdiction will then be arranged, the way and name of the museum's use, as well as other important issues that are important for the improvement of this activity. What this law foresees is the digitisation of a museum building that is now in the modern world, of great importance for the improvement of this area, and this will be achieved by introducing a whole new information system. This bill envisions museum activity as one public action to protect cultural goods. Just as such, it is of general interest to the Republic of Serbia to education, in order to develop and advance our society as well as modern research. Certainly, this bill allows museum action to be in line and is in line with all international standards, with the Statute of the Museum Council for Museums, with various ratified agreements and with the Code of Professional Ethics. This legislative proposal established a completely new structure of the museum, which is of paramount importance. Of course, the paper is viewed in the introduction of a museum council as well as records and a network of museums will make a significant contribution to the improvement of this area. The museum network consists of central museums, parent museums, territorial museums and all those museums that are on the museum records which will certainly defacto with this law all have to be entered. The museum council is foreseen as a council consisting of five members elected by the minister on a proposal from the central institution but certainly his role will be advisory, as well as resolving issues of great importance for the improvement of museum activity. With this very way of organisation and reform, we believe that one of the important issues of the past will be resolved when we talk about museum activities, and that is certainly a small number of employees as well as an insufficient area of space for the preservation of our most valuable museum building. Strengthening criminal policy is certainly one of the provisions of this law on museum activity. When this is exactly what we are talking about, we cannot without mentioning that today the Republic of Serbia has defactoed the fight against corruption and crime as its priority. And that corruption and crime, they were, that is, caught in all spheres of society, is also the fact that culture has not been left behind in the fight against crime in the context of its activities. We have recently also had the opportunity to hear your statements by a respected minister, that just in the Ministry of Culture, contracts have been found in connection with criminal clans and that they are just like these handed over to the police, and that the theft of the Museum of Yugoslavia, or theft of objects from this museum, has just experienced a judicial epilogue where three million and 250 thousand dinars have been paid to the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia for damages for this institution. Also, another trial is under way based on the theft of museums from applied art. These are certainly the facts that Serbia is fighting crime today and that Serbia is today a safe and stable country in which you can no longer unpunish the monuments. You can no longer get unpunished and at the expense of our history, our culture, our cultural goods. Today in Serbia, you cannot get rich at the expense of our population, as the previous regime has done with its tycoons headed by Dragan Gilas, who have just put the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in their pockets, hid it in accounts in 17 countries around the world, such as Mauritius, Hong Kong, Moldova, Switzerland and others. It was precisely this money that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia could have wanted and wanted to be used to build new museums, new galleries, new theatres, just invested in culture. They didn't care about culture, like they didn't care about roads, hospitals, schools. They didn't care about keeping the National Museum closed for 15 years either. The National Museum, which is a symbol of our history, culture and as no museum in the world, shows all that passed by the Serbian people, its suffering, its struggle for preservation and its free spirit. The National Museum of the Republic of Serbia preserves over 400,000 items from our history and represents our valuable, cultural historical treasure, otherwise, and this institution is, I must mention the first museum that opened in Serbia in 1844, and by pointing out then the head of the Ministry of Education and certainly that this museum is of great importance for the preservation of our history, culture and tradition, and that it is therefore with this law this museum, it will be renamed to the National Museum of Serbia and will be a central institution for the protection of culture. But that in 1844, when the first museum in Serbia was created, that is, the National Museum is the moment when Serbia in one system way began to collect its cultural heritage and to preserve it, above all. Since today’s agenda is also a part of the agenda – the decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being is of paramount importance. I must point out that as many as 720 old and rare books and manuscripts, this decision will be placed in the category of greatest protection. It's just proof that everything we've been keeping and collecting for years, we want to protect first and foremost for the future of our children and our generations. I must point out that by bombing Belgrade in 1941, important, valuable books and manuscripts have been burned, but in the meantime we have managed to rise from that ash, that we have managed to work hard, keep and collect, and here today we decide to preserve 720 of these valuable manuscripts of printed buildings and books to preserve through their conservation, through their general preservation we have succeeded in making our future generations available for research and, above all, for the importance of our history. Serbia today is a strong country that unites cultural, religious and identity heritage. Serbia, today headed by President Alexander Vukic, proudly presents our history, proudly represents our greats, today after eight centuries Serbia is building a monument to Stefan Nemanja, the parent of our history and our country. Look, what's the Sava Square look like today? The square that used to be a mockery, and today along with the arrangement of the railway museum has an entirely new look and not only that, precisely the culture of tourism is of great importance for the development of our Serbia, the very date of modern, on the one hand that we have in "Belgrade on Water", where hundreds of millions of euros have been invested so far and the traditions and cultures on the other side of the Sava square are indeed one tourist center where tourists are extremely important to visit and above all, see both religious and historic culture of our Serbia. And we are witnessing today that even after 89 years of leading President Alexander Vukic, the temple of St. Sava ends, our spiritual and historical symbol, and it is on this facade of the Holy Sava Temple and ends a mosaic that, together with the Russian Academy of Sciences and in general, through the design of the technique, represents truly one incredible artistic value that is nowhere in the world, and that Serbia particularly wanted to invest in culture, we have also shown by the fact that the 2025 plan is currently envisioning over six hundred million euros for investment in culture. I must point out that for this year alone, the Ministry of Culture has singled out 320 million dinars for cities focusing precisely on the implementation of projects throughout Serbia. It is doubtless that you have made a major contribution to the development of culture in the previous period. I can't help but mention that it is you who are responsible for the decentralisation of culture in Serbia, and by visiting the municipality of Knic, a rural environment in the heart of Serbia, in the heart of Šumadija, where the home of culture is being shown exactly how important decentralisation of culture is, you have shown that it is equally important to build homes of cultures throughout Serbia, as well as building galleries, legates, theatres, new museum buildings, reconstruction of existing museum buildings that present themselves as cultural goods under the protection of the state. Serbia today, what I especially want to point out, is growing a culture of memory. Serbia today can proudly point out that after so many years, it is ready to record and film the movie "Dar from Jasenovac", based on which we remember this painful history of the Serbian people's suffering. Serbia is ready today to face its history. She's ready to tell the truth. What I want to point out is that this painful truth about our history is equally important that we remember our victims, and that is why Serbia remembers both Storm and Koshar today, Serbia today marks the day when NATO bombs fell across Serbia and when our children and our innocent civilians' lives were cut off. It's a painful history, but in order to remember it, we have to remember and mark such things, so that our children and future generations will build the future on a healthy and true historical basis, because exactly what we are investing in culture today, right in all these buildings, museums, galleries, theaters, whose walls keep our past is of great importance to us. So I would take the opportunity to send word from this place to all those who have dared in any way to end this country's history, to all who have dared to think that they can manage the fate of the Serbian people and all those who write today's reports, wanting to reduce Serbia's progress for a better tomorrow, I would like to say that if they want to, first of all, understand one nation, they have to learn the spirit of that people, and that will do so by getting to know its past, because the true answers are always more in the past than in the present. Only then will they find answers for the unbreakable Serbian spirit and its struggle for freedom. There will find understanding and answers for Serbia's struggle today, President Aleksandar Vukic, that Serbia is today equally guarding and raising its national identity, integrity, sovereignty and that it wants the unity of the Serb people wherever it lives. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4785	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. The word has the culture minister, Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4786	Thank you for your address. At one point in your speech, you also mentioned the thefts made in some museums in Belgrade, which I mentioned in my public address, giving interviews and I don't see what my mistake was. That's not what I'm saying to you, but I'm talking to those who wrote or wrote to me personally about how I'm reducing the importance of their museum works, the importance of the security companies, and on one occasion it became a topic, why the minister did something and reported it, told the public, not the topic that the thefts were done. However, I have nothing to hide from the public it is my pleasure to share all my knowledge with all the citizens of Serbia, because they are filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia and they need to know and must know where their money is going and what happens later in someone's carelessness. Whose care it was, I'm not the investigative authority to investigate it on me is that all I know is to tell both the police and the prosecution and all those who are interested in what happened in our museums not so long ago. Yes, stealing the Museum of Applied Art, and all that happened after that theft is something that, in my opinion, deserves attention, not a conviction, because the theft happened in August 2019. We are now in 2021, when the general public was able to find out through my statements that heavy theft was committed there, that the stolen items of the 14, 17, 19 and the beginning of the 20th century were stolen. In some free estimate of employees, and unprofessional persons, the damage is about 300,000 euros high, but much greater damage because these gold objects and these jewelry that belonged to our dynasties, primarily the Obrenović dynasty, can never be found again. Perhaps, in some circumstances, because of the broader circumstances and the search and search for some stolen things that have not been tied to museums so far, we may have some luck, and we return some items. Why do I say that's unusual? The Ministry of Culture and Information from August 2019 to March 2020, just before the start of this terrible pandemic, has not received any notice from the leaders of the Museum of Applied Art, nor from the MUP, because the Ministry is the founder, the Ministry represents the Republic of Serbia, I do not understand why it has been silent for so long. Only the employees and museum directors themselves did not report the police immediately, and they learned that the theft was done only when they returned from their flight for about eight, ten days, perhaps more, they did not report the theft or the police. What's important is that the suspect is one of the security guards, that security team got a job in public procurement, we all have to imagine whether public procurement has to be the solution to recruiting someone to do security in such important cultural institutions or whether it can be done in a different way and the security guard is a suspect. We still don't have any data on whether that face was processed, convicted, but the case file shows that a lot of that gold jewelry was destroyed, that they were handed over further. Who are they to hand over to? So, there are clues, and I hope that soon we will get an answer to who the perpetrators really are, who the employers are, and how that theft came from the very cost of security that was supposed to guard the Museum of Applied Art. Does he have any responsibilities or employee responsibilities? There's this key to the depot, with such important items standing in a simple drawer in the writing table. The museum of Yugoslavia in 2016 was also stolen from workers of the same firm that carried out security and the previous museum. She recently paid damages for destroyed and stolen items. Some items are the personal belongings of Josip Broz Tito, the second object of Heil Selassi, who presented the former president of Yugoslavia, Josip Broz Tito, who had been destroyed. I hear it's all melted into gold and sold and resold somewhere, and a worker of the same firm has been convicted for a year, I guess a very small sentence, which he has supported under home conditions, is no longer in his life, but the company has paid compensation. So I noticed when we were informed that there was some money that was paid to the museum and we didn't know the origins. We also had a theft at the Radovanski Lug Museum in the Great Plana. We should all think together about whether this protection system is only physical security now in Serbia's museums, because the thefts took place in the early 1990s, the reselling of these artifacts, the appearance of counterfeits, it seems to me that lately it has returned to these premises, that the market is working well, and that we are sleeping on these facts and we are not dealing with enough security for our museums. I think that in some investigations, and especially in the investigation that was going on, or not at all, at least in these two cases, we see that there was also one defendant, and in this other case, the suspect in the serious theft committed, but the space in the concrete hall that was assigned to the Museum of marginal art, though, that procedure was never completed, but the state invested in that space, the idea was to be a gallery of the Museum of marginal and naive art located in Jagodina. So there's the constant theft. The last theft was about a year and a half or two ago, a huge 15-16 000-euro elevator was stolen. There's no sign of that, not even any sign of break-in, except for the testimony of the man who was in charge of guarding that space, but nothing the M.O.P. has ever done in that period for this criminal charges against the N.N.N. person. It's just impossible in that space that's covered by all possible cameras from nearby restaurants and cafes, that there's no sign. The elevator is huge. Someone had to see it coming out, so one big thing, only by truck or by some crane could have been taken away. That's what you've been silent about for years. If I'm doing a good thing or not doing a good thing for myself, I don't even think about it. Maybe I should also worry, because some other people remind me of it, or for their own safety, but still, when a man is chosen to be a minister of something, a resistor, he doesn't need to think about himself, he has to think about the well-being of the citizens and the well-being of this country, and I think that our money and our cultural treasure belong to all of us, and that we don't need to run from the truth and push under the rug something bad that's done in the past, but we need to find out who did these thefts, where these items are, who are the perpetrators, and in some cases, why nothing has happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4787	I thank the Minister of Culture. If there are no more registered presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups, we shall move to the list according to the notices of the MPs. The word has the People's MP Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4788	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government and the Minister of Co-operation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the Law on Museum Action as a very important law in the area of preserving the cultural heritage of the people living in this area. In fact, museums are the treasures of a historic building that reminds us and points to the development path of peoples living in a certain area and in this sense it is important to pay attention to this important work. We also see from your introduction of the law itself that this law will regulate very important issues that have not been regulated so far. This also points to the gaps and problems that have existed so far, which should be removed by implementing this law in the area in question. A few things that you pointed out, such as excessive concern and protection of cultural buildings, then the issue of calling itself, or expertise, began by the director of the museum, and beyond, through other staff, the issue of digitisation and generally European standards that are prescribed in this area is very important. On the other hand, I would also like to welcome your initiative on the need for protection, and I would add to that the promotion of the sacral culture of all churches and religious communities and we should work very hard on that field. In terms of cultural promotion, I think that as a society through educational institutions, from preschool institutions, through school education, to higher education institutions, we must work more generally to meet our children and young generations with cultural heritage, which will provide a stable and good future certainly. As for the proposal for a decision to declare the old and significant library building of cultural goods of exceptional importance, I would say on this trail that, listening to colleagues and colleagues coming from different parts of Serbia and mentioning very often specific problems that the institutions of culture on the ground face, I believe that the support of the ministry, and I have no doubt that it has been unreserved so far, would be even more significant to this support addressed to local self-governments, since sometimes certain cultural institutions face very serious problems, starting with existential problems such as I will, for example, specify several examples from where I come from, therefore, a concrete space of Sandzak, where we have a fact that the parent library in Prepolje does not have its own building, which is a very difficult environment and basic prerequisite for quality work. On the other hand, for example, the Library in Sjenica has only 40 m2 available and in such conditions it is impossible to talk about quality work, actually. I will also mention the question, I will use your presence as ministers of the resolution ministry, the issue of the spatial capacity problem of the historical archive "Ras" from Novi Pazar, which is responsible for the storage, protection, processing and presentation of the archive building from the area of Novi Pazar and the municipalities of Tutin and Sjenica, and they are very busy with space. Only 450 m2 are working and regularly in reports to their local self-government mentioning the problem, since they are unable to meet their legal obligation in a valid manner, to accept archival structure, which is more and more every year, so that in that sense, in addition to the fact that the Law on Archival Construction, the Archival Activity is prescribed by its Article 5 that the Republic of Serbia, AP and local self-government units must find ways and provide the conditions for archives to work adequately, the historical archive "Ras" in Novi Pazar has no conditions for quality work. They even mention in their reports and a solution that would be appropriate, and it would not be so complicated, since the building in which they are located is dedicatedly arranged and arranged for the needs of the archives, but on the ground floor there is a music school, so that it would be logical, for example, to remove the music school and find an adequate space, and to free them of that space. Well, I'm using your presence as a resolute minister to bring up the problems that are in the field and which are very important. Certainly, in the day to vote, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as we have announced, will also support the law and decision as very important and important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4789	I thank Professor Misali Pramenkovic. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4790	Just to ask you, do you have any idea if anyone from Novi Pazar participated in the competitions of the Republic Ministry in this regard, cities in focus or cultural heritage, since the ministry has allocated significant funds for projects? Maybe that way we could solve a part of the problem of space, building a dump or something. If you don't know now, feel free to come to the Ministry or report back, and we'll see. If they were involved, let's take one of these projects as a priority.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4791	The word is Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4792	Thank you. Personally, I have no information about whether it was applied for such a kind of help, but what I mentioned in the presentation and mentioned is that, since I am a boardwoman in the local parliament, I have a chance to get acquainted with the reports of the historical archive "Ras", the building in which they are located would have a solid capacity to receive an archival structure if the removal of certain institutions and institutions operating there occurred, so at this point I have no information, but thank you for your suggestion. Sure, I'll pass. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4793	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4794	Dear Members, we have before us a proposal for a law on museum work that will organise a system of protection and use of museum buildings. This is the first time that the area of museum work is defined by a specialized law, since museum activity has so far been regulated by the 1994 Cultural Goods Act, which, according to its character and general regulation, regulates general and common issues of the protection of cultural goods. Given all the changes that have occurred in this long time period of three decades, such as socio-political changes, we also know that we know the termological limitations of the previous law, it is so much more important that the Ministry of Culture and Information has accepted this important job, such as the Law on Museum Labour. The aim of the law is to systematically improve the area through strengthening museum institutions and bringing Europe's practice closer by introducing state-of-the-art museological standards from the prescribed conditions for the establishment, preservation, study, protection and representation of heritage. Also, the new law allows for the establishment of a high-quality and stable museum network of Serbia, linking institutions and encouraging the education of museum experts to be created conditions for improving the entire museum profession in Serbia, but to make real progress is not just a good law, young professional museum personnel who will carry an important part of the work in the field of archaeology, conservation, ethnology, history are also needed. Unfortunately, the ban on public sector employment has led to a lack of museum experts needed to improve museum work. I come from the Prepolje municipality. The museum in Prijepolje was founded in 1990 and is territorially responsible for the municipalities of Priboj and Prijepolje. I am proud to say that the museum in Prijepolje is the winner of the special prize of the European Museum Forum in 2012, which was presented in 2013 in Portugal. This recognition has so far not won any museums in the region. Also, during the inspection supervision of the Ministry of Culture and Information 2018 in the Report it was found that the Prijepolje Museum should have four professional workers of which at this time the museum has only two, and two are missing, and first of all, a graduate archaeologist and curator-documentist. However, the agreement for the employment of these museum experts, which would take part of the job, is gone, so my question to you – how can this problem be solved, how can the Prepolje Museum get the experts it needs? In addition, there is a problem with reducing the number of workers by natural drains, which is a serious difficult environment in the regular performance of this institution's work. A ban on public sector employment can pose a problem in the appointment of museum directors. Namely, in Article 49. The law on museum work stands – director and performer of museum directors, in addition to the conditions laid down by the provisions of the law governing the field of culture, can be a person who has passed a professional exam and at least five years of work in museum work. It's something new that hasn't been in practice so far. In a situation where there are no new employment, and the old staff is retired, it means that the election is narrowed and some museums will likely have a situation where not all the specifics of the members of the law that regulates the appointment of directors can be respected. Here I especially think of museums in the interior of Serbia, in smaller areas. These problems must be overcome during future times in order to allow for the smooth implementation and improvement of the museum's work. Otherwise, the aim of the law that we are talking about today and that is ahead of us is to create a legal framework, that is, a system within which protection institutions will be able to carry out their work in an adequate and modern manner. It is fully adapted to the conditions in our country, so that when it enters into force it will be applicable. It will be a kind of valuable instruction that will greatly facilitate the work of museums and those who work in them. On this occasion, I would also like to commend one initiative launched by the Ministry of Culture and Information. In fact, although a number of cultural institutions in Serbia were moving forward with time, it seems to me that most should have been encouraged to use social networks as a way of advertising and presenting certain content. Given the number of users and the amount of time people spend on social networks, I believe that the presence of cultural institutions on social networks is a path that becomes modern institutions adapted to modern times and the needs of their audience. So, for example, the House of Culture in Prijepolje has for several years also had Facebook and Instagram page and YouTube channel and website, but since recently the Prijepolje Museum has also had profiles on social networks and web sites. Culture is a food for spirit and mind, and that's why we need to bring it closer to people. We SDPS will always advocate that culture be available to everyone. When it comes to the decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being of exceptional importance, 720 old manuscripts and printed books from the 15th to the 19th centuries were categorized in terms of protection. In this way, conditions will be created for their more complete legal and technical protection, i.e. conservation, restoration and microfilming, for further study and publication of the results of these researches, as well as for the production of phototypes of the most valuable works. As for the proposal for a law on museum activity and the proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being of exceptional importance, the SDPS parliamentary group will support both proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4795	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Samir Ćosovic. Mr Slavenko Unkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4796	The President-in-Office, a respected minister with an associate, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is now in front of us of the Museum's Labour Act, which will systematically regulate all individual areas of cultural goods, as well as the protection of movable cultural goods, i.e. museum buildings. The law defines the obligations of museums and founders, improving the conditions for the work of museums to best protect movable cultural goods, as well as regulating the central and parent functions of museums. The bill defines museum work as a public action to protect museum construction and immaterial heritage from general interest in the Republic of Serbia. The law will define a unique information system for all museums, create a new body as a museum council, as well as a network of museums made up of central institutions, parent museums, territorial authorities and other museums. The central institution of museum building protection will be the National Museum in Belgrade, which will be renamed the National Museum of Serbia. The mother museums perform the mothering museum work according to the type of museum building and personality in the performance of museum work. The museum's jurisdiction towards territory is being conducted in a given area in line with Serbia's administrative division with the assistance of the central institution and the parent museums. I would especially like to point out, as an example of good practice, that the Vojvodina Museum is the largest museum facility in Vojvodina and the only museum to implement the digitisation of the museum building on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. By the way, the Vojvodina Museum is an institution with a tradition of more than 150 years and preserves in its collections an invaluable cultural heritage. The adoption of such a law enables comprehensive regulation of museum activity, as well as the establishment of a system, organisation and functioning, given that current problems cannot be solved otherwise. The biggest problems are insufficient funding, as well as funding by local self-government, reduction of the number of employees, lack of space for accommodation of cultural goods, various legal procedures about holders and holders of cultural goods, as well as the question of rights and obligations of museums. Minister Gojkovic announced the adoption of such an important law immediately after the entry into office of the culture minister for the first time, and after decades and some new regulation. The minister immediately recognized the need for such a law, and here we are today discussing it and considering its importance. I would especially like to point out that in 2008, as then Mayor of Novi Sad, Maja Gojkovic first directed the initiative to support Novi Sad for the prestigious title – European Capital of Culture. Today, I am pleased to say that Novi Sad is the only city outside the EU that has brought this title and that today it is already unique in its cultural development strategy. Although two more EU cities have brought this title together with Novi Sad, as the capital of culture in 2021, only Novi Sad has met all the conditions and thanks to Mayor Milos Vučevic and his team, the title was won in the right way. Due to the pandemic, the titles have been postponed for next year, and the cities of Temisvar and Greek Elfsina, as EU cities, will only be the bearers of the title in 2023. Since 2016, when Novi Sad won this title and by the end of next year, the funds invested in capital projects in culture, including museums, are around 60m euros. Funding this project has been provided from all levels of government, as well as from EU funds. The project is designed as a need to develop the cultural potentials of the town of Novi Sad, which aims to strengthen cultural vitality, to enable cultural regeneration, to improve the international reputation and tourist offer of Novi Sad. The network of cultural cells is the largest profit of this project and has eight and are located in various parts of urban and suburban settlements. They're spaces that didn't serve anything. They've invested, they've been renovated, they've been adapted, and there's a cultural life going on in them today. Cultural stations are new bridges of culture that connect, include citizens, artists, organizations and represent a Renaissance of cultural life. Through the decentralisation of culture, every citizen can be involved in creating a cultural image of the city. In view of the project – the European Capital of Culture, we will have something similar in Serbia, and we have heard it in the exposé of the Government, and often from the minister. This project will be called - the National Capital of Creation. The goal is also to decentralisation cultural events, develop contemporary artistic practices, promote the cultural heritage of certain parts of Serbia, as well as to increase the investment of municipalities, cities in culture and art. The ministry of culture in the 2021 budget provided over 300 million dinars for the project – Cities in focus. The project planned to improve cultural infrastructure in towns and municipalities in Serbia, and in terms of building new and reconstruction of existing facilities. We really see that Minister Gojkovic is in a serious position to encourage and help all towns and municipalities in Serbia and to have their cultural facilities and cultural life. We see that this is some new approach to solving problems and promoting culture and really deserves all the praise. The decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being is also very important for Serbia. All the laws that are passed in culture will also mean a great deal to the Serbian Matica from Novi Sad as the oldest, literary and cultural and scientific institution of the Serb people. We are familiar with the role of the Serbian Mother in our enlightenment, national homogenisation, the publication of Serbian books. The Matica library of Serbia is the oldest library of national importance and rights of public scientific library in Serbs. The Matica Serbian library in its collections today has more than three million books and other publications. Today's decision produced a list of 720 old and rare books in Serbia, which are unique or very rare copies at the time of production, or is about specimens that are not preserved anywhere. Such books are found in the Matica of Serbia, the National Library of Serbia, the Khon monastery and other places. With this law, such works will receive legal and other protection and will allow for their restoration, conservation, microfilming. It is often heard that investment in culture whether through laws or through financial means is one of the longest investments for a society. That is why the JS MP Group will support these proposals today in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4797	I thank the People's MP Mr. Slavenko Vukovic. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Emesha Uri.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4798	Dear Vice-Presidents, a respected minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as authorised by SVM MP Nandor Kish, has already said in a previous presentation, the SVM will support the proposal for a law on museum action on the basis of which the Republic of Serbia will regulate and ensure systematic management in the fields of culture and protection of cultural goods. There are good reasons why this law had to be passed. In the Constitution itself, your foundation is, then, the limitations of the old law since 1994. Circumstances have changed, and termological changes have occurred, so it is necessary to modernise the law governing museum work. It also requires systematic access to the organization of a museum network, regulations that are practically regulated and protected by museum buildings. If we consider the importance of museum content, it is important not only for historical, scientific, cultural, but is important for each individual, for each individual individually. That's why we need to fix this system. There are problems that are all around our country regarding museums, which are problems of insufficient funding, problems of the number of employees, as many previous speakers have already pointed out, a lack of space in which museum values can be preserved quality. Then it is necessary to arrange who is responsible for what museums themselves are responsible for, for which the managers are responsible. It is important to establish records of museum content, create networks of museums, competences, networking of systems, categorization, definition of cultural goods, and it is very important to protect the museum value and to monitor it, whether or not it is applied. The objectives to be met by the adoption of this law are primarily in the protection and preservation of museum buildings in a unique way. Then it is important that the museum value survives and remains for the next generations, to preserve data on these values, to improve the working conditions of the museum itself, it is very important for the employees and visitors of the museums themselves, to regulate the central and parent functions of the museum, to define territorial competences precisely, to network museums, to qualify in the right way, and if necessary, if all of this does not lead to improvement of function, to introduce some tightening, some criminal measures where attention would be turned to a very important matter, which is to safeguard museum value. We must not forget that the museum value that our state owns in museums represents, practically, and economic capital. So the museum value attracts, as we experienced before the pandemic, that many visitors of our country first went to our museums to see what remains preserved from the previous decades and centuries. It is very important to understand our own past in order to build the future in the right way. It is very important that museum institutions are strengthened and that this practice of strengthening and networking museums goes in the direction of some European criteria and that we respect these European museum standards. So it's very important to create a museum, to be in the right way of preserving, studying museum values, protecting and presenting these museum values, because it's actually our heritage. As a member of Hungarian nationality and someone who was born in a multicultural, multiethnic and multi-confetion environment, I am born from Banat, and I live in Sombor, where the Hungarian national minority is not a majority, is not in the bloc, but is minority. It is very important from our point of view as a minority that museums leave a mark on our history, our contribution to this climate because we believe that if we succeed in preserving our identity, our language, our culture, we can contribute to the development of our country. Someone who thinks, understands more languages can have a broader view of a particular problem and can actually bring their country one plus, one win. In this way we from SVM appeal that museum values should be preserved just to preserve the diversity of this climate, the diversity, because the differences are these things that practically perfect us. If we visit museums, we will be in the right place where we have contact with history, with the culture of all the peoples who lived, living in this climate. As far as cultural tradition is concerned, it is not only minority or majorityal, it is comprehensive. It forms a common cultural heritage and the 2005 Framework Convention on the Values of Cultural Heritage defines how knowledge of this heritage can foster trust and understanding between the peoples. As for the number of museums, 149 museums exist in Serbia registered. It's a third of it in Vojvodina, about 50. As regards the age of these museums, as the previous MP already presented, the oldest museum in Serbia was founded in Belgrade in 1844, next in Novi Sad in 1847, then Mitrovica in 1885, Vrsac in 1882, Sombor in 1887, Subotica in 1892, Zrenjanin in 1906, Pančevo in 1923. Remember that these museums are located in beautiful buildings that are old, wasteful, which should be restored, preserved. The buildings themselves are extremely high values, and the exhibits in them too. As far as exhibits are concerned, old books are kept in the Vojvodina museums, some 200 books are kept from the 16th to the 20th century at the Zrenjanin National Museum. The oldest books are written in Latin and church Slovenian, and the largest number is in Hungarian and German. If we find that the first printing works in Zrenjanin were formed only in 1847, then we know that these books are originating in Europe, in other areas, they are printed in the Netherlands, France, England, Russia, Italy, Austria, Hungary. The oldest publication is "Molitevnik" from 1552. So we should be aware of what values we have. Also, these museums have a storage problem. The National Museum in Pančevo is located in a building built in 1833, and there is a painting of Paja Jovanovic "Seoba Srb". I think that's enough to know what kind of building and museum value it is. As for the need in these museums, as is likely to show needs throughout the country, these are mostly maintenance needs, for hiring professionally qualified workers. The Sombor City Museum, founded in 1887, has about 40,000 exhibits. If we're going to isolate what's most valuable, it's probably archeological, objects that are from the Doroslov area, found in the digs, and that's what they're called. "Jackfield" sites. This has led to a new period of history. So it's such a step and it's so important for the history of mankind, and that's what we have in our climate. Also in Sombor is planning to open a museum called Podunavski Krab, which is very important for all of us, only it is necessary for the state to recognize the importance of this museum and possibly help find an adequate space for it. For the MPs of the Parliamentary Group, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarian museums and the proposal for a law on museum work are very important. After studying the bill, we decided to support it in the voting day. We look forward to the fact that it is fully consistent, both with the Law on National Councils of National Minorities and with the Law on the Powers of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4799	(He speaks Hungarian. I thank you. The word has a national emissary, Jelica Sretenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4800	Thank you. Madam Minister, dear MPs, all the books that have been remembered deserve and are deserved and remembered. And they must not be forgotten. By keeping and caring for ancient books, we preserve the history of our people, our letter, and our Serbian language. The written word will always have a historical value. She will be an indestructible witness for a long time. Let us rise, and it shall be due, to the Gospel of Miroslav. At the end of the 12th century, on the stone altar, at the church of the Holy apostle Peter, in today’s White Field, the first service of the Gospel of Miroslav was performed, according to the idea of Prince Miroslav, Brother Stefan Nemanje, that he had his gospel for the need of worship in a Cyrillic letter. "I don't want a goth, I want a Cyrillic," he said. "I want a Serbian letter" -- and so it would be, and it would be a Cyrillic. It's been many years, but let's go back to the time we live in. I was interested in what statistics say about reading books in Serbia. At a time when information is available at every turn, when we lead a fast life, there is little time we can devote to ourselves. One of the proposals for relaxation is reading books. It is a devastating statistic in Serbia as far as reading books are concerned. Whether because of lack of weight or because of laziness, indifference, but even 75% of adults, after last year's research, have not read a single book, related to work and self-educated, while 60% of people have read only one bestseller. According to the Institute for the Study of Cultural Development, when it comes to high school students, 29% did not read a single book during the last break, 26% read only one book in the same period, and 28% read more than two books. Between 10% and 15% read one of three books in the last year. They don't have any books in the house. I wouldn't comment on this. Note of the European Statistical Service 2018: The French read on average two minutes a day, Italians, Austrians and Romanians five, and Serbian citizens six minutes. Nice. The books are spent mostly by the Slovaks, 2% by total household consumption and at least by Bulgarians and Greeks, by 0.6%. In Serbia, 8% of respondents can be said to love the book and 18% of Norwegians. That's what Eurostat published. In all countries, statistics show, women read more than men. To return to the proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being of exceptional importance, provided by the National Library of the Republic of Serbia for 720 old and rare books. This proposal contains a list of old Serbian manuscripts and printed books produced, or printed, between the 15th and 19th centuries. The Cultural Goods Act determines that the old and rare book is a moving cultural treasure. All 720 old and rare books on this list are cultural goods. Given their particular importance for our science and culture, as well as for rare and unique specimens, a procedure has been launched for them to receive the highest categorisation in terms of protection of cultural goods of exceptional importance. Decision setting out that 720 proposed old and rare books are culturally beneficial, will create conditions for their more complete legal and technical protection, restoration, conservation, microfilming for further study and publication of the results of these researches, as well as for the production of phototypes of the most valuable works. The book is food, comfort, wisdom and teacher. Let's keep our word in writing and cultivate literature. In the day of voting with all my heart, I will support this proposal, because this proposal assures me that cultural concerns are going in the right direction, and I hope that soon the law on theatre will arrive, and I am particularly interested in improving the status of free artists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4801	I thank you, MP Jelica Sretenovic. The word has a folk letter, Stanislava Janošević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4802	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of Parliament. It is a great pleasure to have the Law on Museum Works on the agenda, first of all, because the museum cultivates tradition and cultivates history, and we must not forget who we are, what we are, and how great a people we are, no matter how many people we are smaller than many European and world countries, but we are spiritually and culturally and how richer than many European and world countries. I am convinced that this is what causes envy in them, which does not allow them to acknowledge the economic, health, cultural results, and unfortunately the sports achievements we achieve. For example, when we talk about the Museum's Labour Act, it is very important to say that it will specify the way and conditions of running the museum's work by recording the museum's building, the documentation, how it is explored, how it's being analysed, how it's worth it, but what's crucial is that the Museum's Work Act affects the development of society. Serbia is adorned by dozens of museums, next to the National and National Museum in Belgrade, the Vojvodina Museum in Novi Sad, I must single out the Zrenjanin National Museum. The Zrenjanin National Museum was founded in 1906 and started in 1911 and it is perfect because it is a complex type, and because it is very complex in the research area, because it covers the entire central Banat, or 52 inhabited places. It has 33,000 objects and extends to 1,200 square meters. In our museum, in the town of Begej, the works of Uroš Predic, a prominent Banacan, were undernourished in Orlovat. In addition to Uroš Predic, who devoted one part of his life to painting in the church, the opus of his works covers over 1,600 works. In addition to Uroš Predic, we also have the works of Djura Jaksic, who is from Serbia's Montenegro, is also a prominent prominent Banacan, but also Sava Šumanovic and Paja Jovanovic. At the Zrenjanin National Museum are very rich departments of ethnicity, as well as archaeological, but of course Olympic legions, as well as natural. I am proud to point out that the curators and historians of the National Museum last year realised a project that was supported financially and well-willed by the Ministry of Culture. This occasion, of course, I thank Minister Gojkovic, as the project – "The Museum in Schools" was approved and implemented. Given that we have been found with the coronary virus and that the regime of work, curators and historians in co-operation with students, teachers and teaching staff in the area of New Vienna, as well as in Secnje, have managed to digitise more than three and a half thousand objects of cultural and historical importance. A good part of these items was donated to the National Museum. However, this year they applied for the second part of the project to continue with the same work, but in the area of the municipality of Zrenjanin, or settlements in the municipality of Zrenjanin. They hope for this realization, because exactly what this law says and implements, cooperation between educational and cultural institutions, and above all, the accent is on the work with children, and this opportunity I would ask, given that as children, as well as curators in the museum, they look forward to the realization and possibilities for the realization of the second part of the phase of this project and that you will find space and resources to allow this practice to continue. Since we are in the cultural domain, I cannot help but mention that the Ministry of Culture has singled out four million dinars, the city of Zrenjanin is two million to reconstruct the roof of the National Theatre "Tosa Jovanovic" in Zrenjanin. Why does it matter? For a simple reason, because the facility and the theater "Tosa Jovanovic" in Zrenjanin is the city's pride and theatre activities for the Banacans are still linked to the 18th century. The hall of our theatre is baroque style and gives a special dimension to all plays and we look forward to being able to continue this tradition of ours. Thank you again, Minister, for your hearing and for allowing us to overcome the problem we had with roof recovery. When we talk about the museum, we talk about art, we talk about culture. That's what we're supposed to invest in, because if we forget about it, we'll forget about ourselves. Alexander Vukic's policy is just saying that we must not forget who our ancestors are and that we should create a cultural heritage for the coming generations. However, relatively with this story today in Serbia, several public figures are gravitating in which the absence of culture has been determined hundreds of times and the absolute domination of non-culture in expression and action is absolute. For example, colleagues are very rude, then rude, and then ultimately it is a crime when you alienate the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia worth 67.9m euros. Then you deposit it on offshore accounts in 17 different countries, into 53 different accounts, as Dragan Gilas did. And then it's very rude, and then it's rude, to say the least, when the same politician, in an extremely sarcastic way, provokes a woman, a journalist, a professional. He may not have skipped a course on money laundering since he is a natural talent, but he definitely skipped a check-in, because after so many years of public participation, he is unable to hold a press conference properly and respectfully treats the media. It's extremely rude to lie, as Marinika and her Dragan do. Since the state of money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is being transferred, they are benefiting from it from an account of several hundred thousand euros in order to make up for each other for all the lies they have told, because they are doing it to each other. To conclude, it would be extremely cultural to admit their misdeeds, since it would certainly be exposed, but then it wouldn't be possible to be – we didn't know, we didn't, by chance, because it would certainly be a crime and it wouldn't end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4803	I thank the MP Stanislava Janosevic. The word is from the MP Jelena Mihailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4804	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today's agenda opens up the possibility for us to dedicate the proposal for a law on museum action and a proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural good to me as an artist and a member of the cultural scene in the Republic of Serbia, because every time we have the opportunity to talk about culture and how the culture sector can improve and when we make concrete steps and moves, we do good to our country, our history and our future and we are aware of the necessity of the presence of culture in our everyday life. I finished my previous presentation in this high house with the words "arsa longa, vita bravis" – art is long, life is short. I would also like to place those words at the beginning of my current participation in the discussion, given that today we are talking about old and rare books and museum buildings, which together represents works of art that have outlived both artists and consumers and art through the centuries to come. The proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being is an extremely important document containing a list of 720 old Serbian manuscripts and printed books produced from the 15th to the 19th centuries and as the fifth such decision since 1979 is a logical and necessary follow-up of events in the process of researching experts both the National Library of Serbia and other relevant scientific and cultural institutions. According to the Law on Cultural Goods, it is regulated that every old and rare book is a moving cultural good, and according to the Law on Old and Rare Library Building, as well as the Law on Cultural Goods, cultural goods are classified into cultural goods, cultural goods of great importance and cultural goods of exceptional importance, and categorized depending on their content, artistic, cultural and historical values important to science and culture. Each book or manuscript in the Proposal for this Decision represents an art that documentes history, values, events, preserves Serbian letter and language and, in law and in the consciousness of our entire community, must be treated as exceptional and adequately protected. The adoption of the Law on Music Activity is a condition of systematic approach and regulation of the area of protection of cultural heritage, museum buildings in a comprehensive and meaningful way and I believe that it is a first step towards a potential system-based arrangement and improvement of culture in general, by making this kind of arrangement a necessary long-term strategy for the development of culture, which, in addition to the strategic objectives already adopted for development from 2021 to 2025, would have to be, as a serious and extensive document, finally proposed to the National Assembly, eventually, potentially and confirmed, in order for the culture to finally get its upcoming development path. The Bill on Museum Activity should essentially regulate the way in which the museum works and works of the institutions involved, as well as protect what is of general interest to the Republic of Serbia, the museum building. Before I continue, I would like to remind myself that the origin of the word museum comes from the Latin word "museum", which represents the temple of the muse, the protector of the spiritual activities of man, the inspiring goddess of literature, science and art, which reminds us that the exact purpose of the protector of our spiritual activities should also be to present museums and all other institutions of culture, which through the position between the past and the future, and by using the past, should help create and maintain the nation, create the value of cultural identity and as the institutions of the memory institutions, we must help them in their mission and purpose. In association with rare and old books, which we are talking about today, and given that the most important historical manuscripts, apart from other works of art and historical objects, are kept by management in museums, museums also play a very important role in the education of children and young people, because it is not the same to show pictures in the history textbook, as well as to take children to the museum to see live the setting of historically important objects and to complete their knowledge with visual manifestations. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, we had the opportunity to mention the importance of returning culture to schools through cultural and artistic sections or through an additional subject, but I would like to point out again that this is a topic which, on the agenda of inter-resorship cooperation of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education, should come within as short a time period as possible, so that with the realization of the ideas of returning culture to school, all museums, but also all other cultural institutions in the future, have an audience that could present their contents and that efforts to revive culture before future generations, should have their true meaning. The explanation that you have attached with the proposal for a law on museum activity represents very detailed and fundamentally the objectives that are achieved by the adoption of this law and which problems could potentially be solved in practice by this law. I am pleased that the status quo option, which has been one of the options considered to solve the problems so far by not passing such a law, has been rejected, because I personally believe that the status quo has long been present in the culture of the Republic of Serbia and that our national identity does not have the luxury of holding the status quo on exactly what is of general interest to the Republic of Serbia. The attached explanation also treats the importance of museums as essential elements for the drivers of economic growth, in the form of participation in our country's tourist offer, so that I assume that the collections of all 149 museums on the territory of the Republic of Serbia must be enriched, their presentation updated, so that our museums can become and remain attractive and relevant social spaces and resources important for the entire community. National museums in Serbia, whose founding began in the 19th century, are now facing many other problems which, apart from lack of money, are a lack of space and weak human resources. Also, many museums in Serbia are temporarily closing because of a years-long reconstruction, which has an adverse effect on culture at all. The state should be more organised to access reconstructions of museums of republican importance, to set priorities and real time frames for construction and architectural affairs. For example, one of the most important cultural institutions in Serbia is the National Museum in Belgrade, its reconstruction lasted 15 years. Then, the reconstruction of the Museum of Contemporary Art lasted ten years, while the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Zemun Museum of Tribal Museum, located in the house of Spirta, one of the oldest symbols of the history of Zemun, has lasted since 2000 and is not yet completed. However, reconstruction of the museum means not only rebuilding the museum building, but also transforming and modernising the way employees work, adapting to new weather and technologies. Potential problems can also arise in the purchase of museum buildings, especially in the segment of permanent enriching of collections of attractive objects and works of art, which can attract the attention of the audience of the local and world public and thus contribute to the self-sustainability of the museum's work, as well as culture in general, but also to the already mentioned economic growth. A major and important role in the development of museum work should be given by the Museum Council, in which I believe that the positive selection will be chosen by experts who, within their jurisdiction, will improve the museum's work in Serbia and the work of the entire network of museums. But in order for any good idea to be realized, we all know that financial resources are necessary. Only the implementation of this law does not require any additional funding in this year, since its application has been delayed, but in the event that the application of this law starts in the course of this year, it is necessary not only to redistribute but also to redistribute the allocated funds for culture, but I believe that the Ministry of Finance should consider and identify additional funding for the culture sector under the upcoming or upcoming rebalancing, because the estimated 30 million dinars that need to raise the capacity of culture institutions are neither far from being able to help the permanent enriching of the museum building, and a certain type of redistribution of already defined funds in the culture sector would add to other cultural activities. It is particularly important to try to increase the funding for the culture sector in the coming rebalancing sector, given that for us the years when culture, besides other activities, is extremely affected, that the consequences of culture and globally are enormous and that, in addition to short-term assistance, culture is approached strategically and systematically. In my previous presentation, I looked back on the 20m-euro loan we recently confirmed, which was for investment in cultural infrastructure. I also suggested, in my previous presentation, that it be potential for the budget for example. Next year, consider a 50m-euro loan, with a view to raising investment in culture from 0.97% to a percentage that could send investment percentages to countries' culture in the region, such as Montenegro, which singles out 1.34%, Northern Macedonia 1.23% and Croatia 1.76%. I have already mentioned that the awareness of the importance of culture and the awareness of its presence in our society is of enormous importance for the overall development of our society, and in this light I would like to apostrophe and the importance of the project "European Capital of Culture - Novi Sad", which as a unique opportunity could raise that kind of consciousness, not only in the town of Novi Sad and the environment, but we must treat this project as a state project from which the entire country will benefit, given the estimated experience of the present European capitals of culture that have returned six to each euro invested. One of the founders of the idea of "European Capital of Culture" was Melina Mercury, who opened museums for Greek citizens in terms of free entry as part of her term as a minister of culture and thus encouraged the nation to become better acquainted with its rich history and culture. Serbia is the country of Miroslav's Gospel, Saint Sava, Dosite Obradovic, Vuk Karadzic, Nikola Tesla, Mihajl Pupin, Novak Djokovic. The first European civilization came from our territory, as well as 17 Roman emperors. We have a rich history and culture, in which we must invest to achieve that our culture recognises the world public in the way that we recognize our athletes by which we see how invested it can contribute not only their personal record and successes, but the image of a nation in general. Thomas Jefferson’s words, often quoted, can be a guideline for further activities: “If you want something you never had, you must be prepared to do something you have never done. “ If we want to support, and first of all we are developing our culture and cultural activity, we must invest what we may never have, so that steps such as the adoption of this law in the museum’s work will have its full purpose. Personally, I want to believe that the time has come for investments in culture to rise significantly, to set up the cultural sector strategically and to reject the status quo in culture as any possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4805	I thank the MP Jelena Mihailovic. The word has a national emissary, Jelena Kocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4806	The President-in-Office, distinguished minister with associates, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is ahead of us with a proposal for a law on museum action that is extremely important for us because it will define the museum's work area for the first time in a concrete way, which will make it much easier for the museum to work in Serbia. Since so far a law on cultural goods has been applied to the area of museum activity since 1994, which, by its general regulation and character, regulates common issues of protection of cultural goods and has not defined the precise area of museum work, the adoption of such a law will improve the conditions for the development of the entire museum profession. Its value is high precisely because it is applicable and because it will functionally improve the functioning of the museums in Serbia. This law will ensure full protection and preservation of the museum building, as mobile cultural goods, but will improve the conditions for museum work. What I find very important is the introduction of the Museum Council of the Republic of Serbia, which, as a professional advisory body, will carry out tasks of interest for the development and improvement of museum work, but are also very important members of the laws that are supposed to be able to work in museums in Serbia with proper education and professional examination, which means that people will adequately protect and protect our cultural heritage from the profession. Since I come from southern Serbia, more specifically from Leskovec, I can proudly say that the National Museum in Leskovac has since its founding to date been the bearer of over 150 awards and awards. The "Mihailo Valtrovic" award, which is awarded to museum workers and institutions in the Serbian Museum Society, has contributed four times to our National Museum. The author of the "Golden Age of Leskovci" exhibition was declared curators of the year. The Leskovci National Museum is also the bearer of the recognition of the cultural form that the Ministry of Culture and Information awarded to our museum in 2019, the winner of the three "Oktobar Awards" of the town of Leskovec, as the prestigious award of our city, and the award that is particularly important for us Leskovčane, is the award that was awarded to our President Aleksandar Vukic on Statehood Day 2020, the Sretenski Order for Extra credit for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in the area of culture and museum activity. The permanent setting of the National Museum in Leskovac, awarded by the recognition of "Mihaila Valtrović" year-on-year is being completed, so our museum is the only museum in Serbia with a permanent tactile setting intended for blind and undersighted visitors, thanks to which our city, the town of Leskovac, received the Award of the Citizens' Protectors for Access to Cultural Content. The change of government and the departure of those who have placed in culture in Serbia and with a great delay in personal income for cultural employees has created conditions for the situation to finally be improved. By coming to the power of the SNS and our President Alexander Vukic, culture has experienced its rebirth. After 2012, thanks to our mayor, Dr. Goran Cvetanović, all cultural institutions in Leskovec have received their new appearance, employees have been paid back their earnings, and with pleasure from employees and the creation of good working conditions, there have been many awards that we are proud of as a city. In 2014, the building of the National Theatre was reconstructed, and the actors brought our city numerous awards, this year as many as nine from the Joakim Vujic festival, thanks to which the town of Leskovac will host the festival next year. The building of the historical archive was reconstructed so that the town of Leskovac is the bearer and award of the "Golden Archive", which is awarded by the Arnautovic Foundation, at the Serbian Archives. The Leskovac Cultural Centre was named an institution with the highest number of quality contents after the city of Belgrade while the Leskovac National Library and its reader are trampling for centuries and for centuries and for its creative content daily brings together students, children and young people. They say the city is cultureless, the city is soulless, and I can tell you that Leskovac is a city with a soul because he invests a lot in culture. Unlike the period when DS was in power, when the city was stagnated, when the culture was half less, today thanks to Mayor Goran Cvetanovic, more than 9% of the city's budget stands out for culture. During the government of the SNS National Museum and other cultural institutions of the town of Leskovec were visited countless times by our President Aleksandar Vukic, who is an honorary citizen of our city, our Prime Minister Mrs Ana Brnabic and many resolution ministers, for us Leskovčane it is a great honor. When the DS led our country, southern Serbia practically did not exist for them. We Leskovci were never worthy of the President of the Republic coming to visit us, to visit one of our cultural institutions, to bring some investor, as our President Aleksandar Vukic now does. However, they happened to come to our city, so we all remember in 2009 when the then president of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic and the then mayor of Belgrade, Dragan Djilas, came to southern Serbia, came to Leskovac, but not to bring in some investor or visit some of our cultural institutions but to work for their own pocket, to steal, or to legalize the theft, or purchase of the councilors and to kidnap us in Leskovac, to steal the mayor's mandate. So that the citizens of Leskovec and Serbian citizens could still see in 2009 what kind of policy Boris Tadic is, what is the policy run by Dragan Djilas, which is stealing policy, kidnapping policy, fraud policy, which we can hear today about the huge accounts in Mauritius, Hong Kong, Switzerland and other tax havens. Thanks to our President, Alexander Vukic, who has visited our city several times, opened new factories, built roads, I can proudly say that we no longer have that floscula – the southerner, the sadder, because today southern Serbia is developing evenly as the rest of our country does. In the end, I would take the opportunity to invite a respected minister to honor us and come and visit our city. For all of this, due to the fact that after almost 30 years, a law like this will contribute to the development of culture in Serbia, in front of the legislator group Aleksandra Vukic – For our children, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4807	Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. In accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are now setting a break of one hour and we continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4808	We're going back to work. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4809	Dear Chairman, Mrs. Gojkovic, with an associate, I will read a few parts of this Museum Work Act to create a context for what I will talk about. So, moving cultural goods are museum items, immaterial cultural heritage and they are good of general interest to the Republic of Serbia and enjoy the special protection established by law. The objectives of the protection of the museum building are, among other things, the development of museum activity through the management and use of the museum building. The museum's work is a public action to protect the museum's building and immaterial-cultural heritage, the owner and the building and goods are obliged to preserve, properly benefit and maintain the museum's building regularly and to implement certain measures of protection in a timely manner. I will list only a number of parent museums, again because of the context, so the parent museums are some of them the National Museum of Serbia as the first, the Museum of Contemporary Art, the Museum of Applied Art, the Ethnographic Museum in Belgrade and the museums are of course the site of the history of culture, art and science. Since 2012, SNS and President Vukic have done more for Serbian culture and art than anyone else has done 80 years ago. It is only an apparent absurdity, the fact that the self-proclaimed elite has brought Serbian culture and art to its knees, and that we are under the name "credentials of sandwiches, ugly, dirty, evil", near the signs of allegations. What's the name of that scum elite that we've raised to our feet Serbian culture and art for the past nine years. We're going to do a lot more good, and it's evidence of this wonderful law. In half a year, you have done more than most of your predecessors, those by 2012, for their entire mandate. In any case, you did not deal with marginal, but with the most fundamental issues and thank you and the courage to talk about the mafia in certain museums that caused the robbery, which we heard today, at least three museums in the term of the previous minister. I will remind you, this is now a context followed by the main one, the government of the SNS opened a reconstructed Museum of Contemporary Art on 20 October 2017, and on 28 June 2018 we opened a reconstructed National Museum after ten, that is, after 15 years of clinical death in which these museums were pushed by previous regimes. The National Art Museum was closed to the public in 2007 allegedly due to reconstruction works, so it should have been. However, because of the robbery and embezzlement of 176 million dinars, the Ministry of Culture submitted a proposal to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office in 2013 to file criminal charges against Voja Brajovic, former Culture Minister and Branislava Angelkovic, former director of the Museum of National Art. In 2013, the Ministry of Culture found that it was simple in 2007 for the construction company "Monter", and I will briefly say, in advance, the incredible 176 million dinars were paid in advance, and that these works were never carried out by the company. Former director of the Museum of Contemporary Art Branislava Angelkovic, so Branislav Dimitrijevic was at the time aide to the culture minister and was also involved in this whole thing. Otherwise, the spouses Angelkovic-Dimitrijević are the feathers of other Serbia and autoschofinism. Now, "Montera". The founder and owner of the construction company "Montera" is Dragan Kopcelic, former chairman of the City Committee of which parties? Democratic parties. Otherwise, he was one of the main actors in the robbery privatisation of "Trubniki", which Verica Barac pointed to in time in her report and the privatisation of one of the 24, which the EU pointed to, said they had to be resolved. The National Museum was closed in 2003 by decision, beware, DS. Since 2003-2012, the budget has passed, has been robbed in those years by millions of euros unknown to the trail. It all started when former National Museum Director Tatjana Cvjetjanin, from which the parties, of course from the DS, signed a corrupt contract with the company "Kuns Trans" for the use of a depot that has never been used. The contract was hitched, however positive for the regime at the time, the ministry reacted, and the contract was due, the state was scheduled to pay monthly for a 35,000-euro deposit, which is amazing. In 2012, the Court of Commerce ruled that the National Museum, with no realisation, had to pay "Kuns Transu" 2.5m euros in damages, which did not take place because the museum did not use the depot. For this crime, the suspects are Dragan Koadinovic, former Culture Minister and Tatjana Cvtićanin, former director of the National Museum. In 2013, the Ministry of Culture also applied to the Prosecutor's Office for filing criminal charges against the former minister, for "abuse of the official position" in the process of concluding a contract between the National Museum and the company Kuns Trans, and for this crime, as well as in the case of the Museum of Contemporary Art, no one was responsible until today. Now a different example, I will also remind you of this, in October 2017, because of the suspicion that the Ethnographic Museum, for 14 million dinars, was arrested in 2017, five people headed by the museum director and there is a difference in the behaviour of the former Tadic, Gilasovo, Jeremic's regime and the behaviour of this noble government. So, they haven't even arrested their biggest thieves, and the SNS government has been ruthlessly dealing with its villains, with all the hoodlums in its ranks since the beginning of 2012. Now I'm going to say something about these old and valuable books, because it's an extraordinary decision. This is an example, a decision to declare these 720 old and rare books for cultural goods of the utmost importance, shows how much we respect history, culture, literature, language and literacy. Has it always been like that? It's not. So, the former regime of Djilas, Tadic and Jeremic and other Serbia has been promoting anti-culture, anti-booking, illiteracy, anti-history, Big Brother, the annulment of Serbian language and Cyrillic. The National Library of Serbia until 2012 was the playground of Serbia's second, an area for anti-Serbism and non-culture. The same was true for most institutions of culture, museums, galleries, theatres, film areas, music, visual arts, and monumental politics and architecture were normally reserved for indigenousists and other Serbs. The whole culture was dominated by autoskillers who reacted to the mention of Serbian culture as a vampire on the cross. The "Cultural Summit" in that Tadic and Gilas period represented closed national museums, calling streets across Serbia by the name of the extreme French fan Bris Taton, the same was the highlight of culture, the rise of useless city towers "Pazl" in Banjaca and the Tower Terrace in New Belgrade. The "Cultural Summit" also represented various other scandals, such as the exhibition on the cultural centre Parobrod in 2013. It was an exhibition by Bastachev, in Bastac's organization. The exhibition was about children being sexual gay subjects. I will also remind you of the 2008 scenic exhibition at KC Stari Grad, but also in Novi Sad. Under the mask of art, the exhibition celebrated an Albanian war criminal, watch out, Adem Yasari. You remember that for sure. From that policy, Tadic, Djilas, Jeremic and other Serbia have not remained even today when they are in opposition. We simply know that the murderous hatred is directed against the monument to Stefan Nemanja, that's what we saw. No less hate is directed against the artistic and brilliant movie "The Dar of Jasenovac", just because it speaks of genocide against Serbs. I would like to remind you that Gilas' fighters burned this, one or more copies, of this brilliant book by Goran Vesic about Belgrade, by of course, the order of Dragan Gilas, Bastac and Miljus. They, of course, don't read books, they prefer to burn them as Nazis. I will remind you of Berlin, which burned tens of thousands of books on May 10, 1933. Among the books that the Nazis burned in Berlin that day was the famous book of Heinrich Heinrich Heine “Almansor”, in which Heine, watch out, in 1823, said: “Dort wo man Bücher verbrent, verbrent man auch am Ende Menschen” – “Where they burn books, they will eventually burn people. In Serbia, books began to burn those who advocate hangings and rapes. For the time being, they are threatening little Vukan, Milic, Danil, Angelina, Angelka, Andrey, Alexander and members of the Serbian Progressive Party. By raping Prime Minister Brnabic, but also all, I quote, as they said, "to the wives and daughters of the more prominent SNS officials." The Gilasovites certainly haven't heard of the famous book Ray Bredbejri "Farenheit 451", a negative utopia that speaks of just such thugs as Gilas, Bastac and Miljuš, who persecute people and burn books. Otherwise, French director Francois Trifo made a famous film in this book, also “Farenheit 451”, and otherwise 451 degrees Fahrenheit is the temperature at which the books above are 232 degrees Celsius. For the end, I will remind you of the capital work of Dosite Obradovic, the book "Soviets of sanity" published in Leipzig in 1784. In that part, Dossyus writes a legendary sentence: “It is much better to build a smart and useful book, with what a dear cost it is given to translate and stamp into our language, than to build 12 bell towers and to bring out big bells in all of them. The books, my brothers, the books, not the bells and the banners. “ Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4810	The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4811	It's only short for me to answer you to this big problem and subject matter of dispute and contract conclusion. You said the contract never came to life, but it was ruled in our country by certain damages. You know what the problem is? The problem is that no minister during the Democratic Party regime until 2012, since the beginning of the agreement, has obviously already been proven by international arbitration in America, regardless of what has been proven, so the harmfulness of the contract never remembered or wanted to break it. That they broke it at some stage of the procedure or as soon as they found it impossible for the Kunsttrans to perform this work and in that blue area to hold images from the National Museum that was closed at that moment and to be kept somewhere and all the paintings and works of art from the National Museum Collection. At no time did it occur to anyone to break the contract and reduce the damages. If they had cut back, the damages would have been much less, because the contract would have been in effect for a few months. So they let it last. Our courts have rejected this lawsuit. However, they addressed international arbitration. It seems to me that the arbitration was in the United States and our state paid 1.8m euros without interest. No one was responsible for that really bad contract, because that contract was and bound both sides, obviously. How was it done? Here, in four months, as far as I'm concerned about the Minister of Culture, every day something shocks me, because I come to solve one problem and then when I ask myself or ask my associates who have been here for many years, they tell me that the problem has arisen. The problems mainly stemmed from the decisions of ministers of various kinds. In 2002/2003. For example, I was visiting recently, weeks ago or last week, the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments and I received certain questions. They told me what problems they had in the field and that they had no communication and no co-operation with the Regional Institute for the Protection of Monuments. It was logical for me if something by law was not well arranged for me to change it now with changes and supplements to get information that completely disarmed me, that the entire system of work of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments in our country was torn down by an ordinary fax signed in two sentences by Minister Branislav Lecic. When I got back to the Ministry, I asked to see that college. He's at my desk. I spoke to the Legislative Secretariat, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who instructed me to change it urgently, because one college does not change the law. It's just amazing how until today it's still important, as if at that time DS, 2002 and 2003, when this Ministry was obviously running DS personnel, the current opposition to importance were also faxes, telegrams, and I don't know what forms they're in at all. The second thing I found, let's say, two museums that were famous for the republican institutions of culture, and we've been treating these institutions of culture for about 15 years, these museums as if they were really republican institutions of culture, that's this museum we talked about, whose headquarters is in Jagodina, the Museum of marginal and naive art, and one and the other museums in the open, Sirogyno, meaning the Municipality of Chajetino and these local self-governments made their own decisions 15 years ago that they gave up their rights as found to those institutions as republican institutions of culture. Never until two weeks ago is the government of the Republic of Serbia, so all the time the Democratic Party's term since they gave up their rights hasn't made decisions that these institutions really become republican institutions of culture, and they've been funding them and treating them like they are. You can imagine what you're riding there. I don't know, I get scared every day when I open an object waiting for me and which minister from the past is waiting for me. Kadadinovic signed this "Kunstrast", Minister Lecic sent those faxes and telegrams as in 1945 – I order. You send it and suddenly it becomes the law. No one answered, and they're full of critics. If you want to change something, if you want to establish order, if you want to pass laws, if you give these laws, God forbid you want to change something, God forbid their criticism to strengthen the role of the Ministry of Culture and Information, to strengthen it and the role of the minister, they are constantly seeking some evil intentions, constantly calling for some democratic processes, and forget that many of these critics have become something by the decrees of the then ministers. It's literally decrees. There was no competition, there was no competition, there was nothing at all, but the competent ministers, someone in education, someone in culture, the decrees, and those individuals who are loud enough today when it comes to the work of the Ministry of Culture and Information, as well as the total of our government. We should all imagine what it was like to actually look like from 2000 to 2012, when from one small ministry, the Ministry of Culture and Information, whenever you open some cover like this, some object, you see only negligence, one great ignorance. The laws for them were nothing. They probably stuck to Tito's flossula that there was no need to stick to the law as a drunk float, so they applied it to that democratic DS regime by 2012. What's worse is that none of this bullshit, none of this violation of the law has ever been prosecuted and it's never ended properly, because everyone has mumbled over this way of running at least my ministry. I can only imagine what was in the Ministry of Education, what was in the Ministry of Construction, Traffic, etc. This is what I'm standing behind, because all these objects are on my desk and I'm trying to make some kind of order and make a good foundation so we can do something in the future in culture, but I can't work with monumental protection agencies if they've been working on college since 2002. How long do I need to put all this into legal flows now and, of course, come here before you with legal solutions?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4812	Thank you. The word is from a colleague named Vesna Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4813	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with a co-worker, respected MPs, is now ahead of us with a proposal for a law on museum work, an important regulation whose adoption is necessary, as it will regulate the museum building protection system as a kind of mobile cultural goods and museum documentation. In this way, we create a framework that the Republic of Serbia comprehensively regulates the museum's work and protection of the museum building, especially if it takes into account the importance of these institutions and cultural heritage not only for history, not only for science and culture, but also for meeting the needs of citizens. This law regulates the conditions and methods of performing museum work, its structure and its organisation, the organisation and the work of museums, the way of protection, use and processing of museum buildings and the management of museum documentation and other issues of importance for the performance of museum work. Unfortunately, as in other segments, culture has suffered and is still suffering the consequences caused by the Kovida-19 pandemic, and what is even scarier is the fact that, Madam Minister, you have just taken over the Resort Ministry and faced with thefts in our museums, or the fact that the mafia, that criminals have entered the area of culture. I sincerely hope that the competent authorities will act on documents that have been filed, and are already acting, which suggest that they are suspected of being members of the Velja Belivuk crime group and those who have allowed these criminal activities to be carried out. The municipality of Titell, from which I come, is socially responsible local self-government and, despite being part of the third category of development with a modest original budget of nearly 655 million dinars, makes a major contribution to improving the living conditions of its citizens by raising funds for the area of culture as well. However, past democratic authority headed by municipality President Petrovic Milivo and obedient his associates belonging to the former regime of Boris Tadic and Dragan Dilas was not interested in business or economy, let alone education and culture. The fallen privatisations on the municipality left over 3,000 workers out of work, the strongest factories, such as the "Pobed" Metal Products Factory and the Canning and Cooling Factory, which dealt with the warm and cold processing of fruits and vegetables, disintegrated the entire Titel Agricultural Comb, but Milivove Petrovic, called Pele percentage, had more important interests, as well as his popular nickname. His weakness was also nature, and he especially loved the Tisa River, forests and fertile ornaments, and of course functions. While serving as president of the municipality, he was also the chairman of the Governing Board of the Vojvodina, Novi Sad, and from that position on the phone session, initiated the sale of 50 hectares of the Tisa River coast to 99 years, which led in the Titel's real estate cataster as a first-class forest owned by the Republic of Serbia. You can imagine that it was appointed for all of these activities and awarded a place in the Regional Secretariat for Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management in the full term of four years, and this was made possible by party counterpart Goran Jesic. In place of promised new jobs, attractive work zones, a silo for the cargo of goods, the municipality of Titel received only litigation, multimillion-dollar court costs with cheated customers. All of this was possible with the help of the Municipal Commission for Compassion, whose president was a graduate lawyer, not a judge, as the law imposed. Out of such a lucrative job, owned by the Public Enterprise Space, a municipality-owned company from Titel, a car was purchased for lease. I think it's a used car for 1,600,000 dinars. All this and much more came the new president of the municipalities of Santa Dragana, a 1m-euro loan from the Bank of Ithez, which took the Democrats for the pipeline, except that the pipeline evaporated, it is gone. We returned this loan for eight years and paid it back in December 2019. There's over 15 million in debt to the EPS, you won't believe it, because of the power theft. The town of Titell was stealing electricity. So, 40 million-long pharmacy, for a trip across the titelski bank 83 million dinars, five million to the DDOR and not counting any further. It's big money for such a small and undeveloped municipality that could be invested in large projects, in roads, in waterways, in health care, in culture, in education. That's why Titell still doesn't have a finished sewer and water net, and there's no gas. Despite all this, local self-government led by President Bozic Dragan has restored the House of Culture building in Titell, which we found in a ruinous state. Now it's an orderly building with 380 seats, where we have organized numerous theatre performances for both adults and the youngest. The interior and exterior of the National Library building in Title was restored, which was founded on July 29, 1945. The library numbers 42,000 books with a large number of enrolled members, of which 422 children are up to 14 years old, high school students and students. The National Library "Stojan Trumić" is the only cultural institution in the territory of the municipality of Titel and in the building where it is located is the monumental gallery of the famous Titananin, famous painter Stojan Trumić. We're particularly proud of the gallery because it owns 616 painters' works of art. His painting equipment, personal use items, his confessions, as well as his personal library. All painter's legacy is available in the new gallery space. Although the pandemic caused by the virus is not diminishing, local self-government recently helped the National Library get monographs of Stojan Trumic out of the press. The author of the book is Dr. Valentina Vukovic, and the publisher is the National Library of Titles who bears the name of this famous painter and educator. This reference to the collection and monograph of artists' connections with its birthplace has become even stronger. Also, numerous exhibitions of academic painters, literary evenings of famous writers were held, and what I particularly enjoy is that local self-government is working seriously to prepare a museum that will be in the same complex with library and gallery. The museum would automatically paint the weather, the famous of our handcuffs and spoons, because their center was in the titel. In order for us to achieve this and much more planned, we need to be healthy, and that is why I call on my fellow citizens, my Titans, I call on all citizens of Serbia to be vaccinated, because that is how we safeguard our health, so we protect our Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4814	Thank you. The next is MP Nikola Jolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4815	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, today we have before us a proposal for a law on museum action. The Republic of Serbia has the Law on Cultural Goods, which was adopted long ago in 1994, so that the area of museum activity has so far not been regulated by a special law, but by this law, and now the important area will be defined for the first time by a specialised law. In addition to the termological obsolescence, the Cultural Goods Act is, in its character, a general regulation, because it regulates common issues of the protection of cultural goods. Since there is a need for systematic arrangement of each particular area of protection of cultural goods, in accordance with its specificities, the adoption of the Law on Museum Activity is a condition of system approach and arrangements of areas of protection of movable cultural goods, museum buildings in a comprehensive and meaningful way. For these reasons, it is proposed to adopt regulations governing the protection of museum buildings, as well as types of movable cultural goods and museum documentation, conditions and way of carrying out museum work, as well as its structure, use of museum construction, organisations, jurisdiction, the work of museums in the Republic of Serbia and other issues of importance for performing museum work. This would create a framework for the Republic of Serbia to regulate museum activity in protecting museum buildings, especially if we have in mind the importance of these institutions and cultural heritage, not only for history, science and culture, but also for the overall needs of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. By adopting the law on museum work, in addition to creating a framework for ensuring full protection and preservation of museum buildings, as mobile cultural goods, in a unique way, regardless of the form in which it is created and where it is located, it will also affect the development of awareness of the importance of preserving the museum building, as mobile cultural goods and our heritage for the next, future generations, i.e. aware that the most important items of material and elements of the immaterial cultural heritage must be protected from destruction. The bill also defines the obligations of museums and museum founders, improving the working conditions of museums so that they can devote themselves to the protection of movable cultural goods for which they are responsible and regulate the central and parent functions of museums, as well as the regulation of competences within the museum network. By adopting such a legal solution, we will be able to improve the functioning of museums in the Republic of Serbia in a functional way, and therefore I call on my fellow Members to support this bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4816	Thank you. She has the word of her colleague Violet Okoljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4817	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law on museum action we are discussing here today is of multiple importance, not only because of the fact that it will contribute to a comprehensive improvement of the conditions for the work of the museum, but also for the protection of the entire museum building. The law, among other things, defines the organisation of museum work, museum status, purchase and use of museum buildings, as well as the professional equipment and professions of persons who can work in the museum, and we see that this law defines professionals who will prove their expertise by passing a professional examination. This law is only one in a series of steps that the Ministry of Culture and Information is making from the moment you took over the ministry's portfolio, and in order to protect everything that represents our cultural heritage, everything that is valuable and everything that we should be proud of as a nation. On the other hand, the fact is that not all of us can support all those positive steps in the field of culture and the fact is that we have to get used to one small group of individuals whose culture is not something too close to the concept and who have shown this by the already mentioned burning of books in Prince Michael's street and then by violent incursion into the building of the National Assembly, which is not only the highest legislative body, but is the object of culture. They also showed by placing false news on the alleged closure of the Natural Museum in Belgrade, Calemegdan, what they think of protecting the museums. They are the same people as Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, who are all trying to shake the reputation of Serbia in the world, to get in touch with foreign embassies, and thus somehow regain power to increase their personal wealth and open up, possibly, some other account on exotic islands. The fact is, on the other hand, much has been done in the area of culture throughout the country, and so is in the municipality from which I come, in the municipality of Kovin. With one responsible leadership in Kovin, we were able to reconstruct the homes of culture in almost all inhabited areas. Culture homes today represent the centre and cultural and social life of locals in our settlements, and we try to work year after year at the adaptation of the Centre for Culture in Kovin, so this year, with the help of the Ministry of Culture and the Film Centre of Serbia, we have renovated the theatre and then the cinema hall, obtained a modern 3D projector and thus allowed our fellow citizens, in accordance with modern technologies, to monitor the latest world and domestic film premieres. We also reconstructed the "Vuk Karadzic" library in Kovin, expanded it, equipped it, digitized a special space for children, as the most faithful users of the library. Also, we have dedicated a special space to literary evenings, e-readers and thus fully adapted the entire facility, the entire cultural institution to the needs of our fellow citizens in Kovin. What is very important to us and what is waiting for us in some future period is the renovation of the roof at the Centre for Culture in Covin. Namely, the object, i.e. The Covin Cultural Centre building was built in the late 1980s. Unfortunately, from that moment on, she has not experienced any serious reconstruction, and on us as a responsible authority, we remain to resolve the neglect and negligentness that the previous government left us in the amanet. I hope that, with the support of the Ministry of Culture and Information, we will be able to realise this project together. To return to the proposal for a law on museum activity and to the Decision on the declaration of an old and rare library building for cultural well-being of exceptional importance. It's our duty. It is our duty to be worthy of our ancestors, to protect and cherish our history and our culture, and to leave it so preserved in an amannet of our descendants. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, I will certainly support this bill and the motion for a decision in the day of the vote, and I wish you a great deal of success in your work, and this is when I invite you to visit the Kovin municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4818	Thank you. The next speaker is Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4819	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a respected minister with associates, respected MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these days, from day to day, are fiercely attacked by the media MPs SNS Dr Aleksandar Martinovic and Dr Vladimir Orlic, and here we see Mrs Sandra Christmas as well, just because they are selflessly following and implementing Serbia's modernisation policy drawn up and implemented by President Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For your information, gentlemen, you who medialy produce fake news in the media under the control of Dragan Djilas, have no chance in your mind to separate these MPs, Dr Aleksandr Martinovic and Dr Vlad Orlic from supporting the politics of Aleksandar Vukic, because Aleksandar Vukic is the engine of Serbia's accelerated modernisation, which supports the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Dr. Martinovic and Dr. Orlic, you have the unreserved support of our MPs to endure to the end, and I'm sure you will. Let me move on to this decision and to this law. Dear Minister, first of all, I am pleased to see you in this high house, in which you, Madam Minister, have chaired and experienced the greatest insults in this House's history, and in just three years my smallness, as it records every insult, and you, and SNS MPs from only one of the opposition party presidents, are offended by 53 times the greatest insults. Let me move on to a decision to declare 720 old and rare books for cultural well-being of exceptional importance. Thank you, Madam Minister, for putting this decision on the agenda, and also to say the Museum's Labour Act. We, in this decision that your Ministry of Culture, Information has delivered to us on the proposal of the National Library of Serbia, are in fact declaring 720 books of old and rare cultural well-being of exceptional importance. The proposal is a fruit of hard and painful years of work and of studying written and printed old and rare books, both employees of the National Library of Serbia and other institutions. Thank you very much to the workers of the National Library of Serbia and to you, Madam Minister, for this truly commendable proposal. This proposal by the Ministry of Culture has great importance for science and culture, for scientific and cultural workers, they really know best what that value is. Let me say, while I've already taken my word, and something about the National Library of Serbia. Let me say that it keeps between these books and the 13th century books, and the youngest is from 1799, while the oldest private museum contains a set of the oldest books from the 15th century to the end of World War II, in my opinion, the Predrag Milovanovic Museum. The National Library of Serbia is the centre of the library information system of Serbia. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, the National Library of Serbia's Fund represents in general the cultural well-being of five million books with an annual inflow of 20,000 titles, just to see what kind of cultural institution it is. The National Library of Serbia was founded on February 28th, 1832, by the will of Knjaz Milos Obrenovic as the first institution still then in unfree Serbia. The National Library of Serbia had success especially during the time when the Librarians were Janko Shafarik and Stojan Novakovic, and that was the second half of the 19th century, to see, the honourable MPs, who were the legends of the library, and that was until 20 years ago. Unfortunately, we don't have that situation today. The National Library of Serbia began digitisation in 2004 and what is very important, online is available to around 100 collections, and since 2012 with more than a million and a half digitized documents and it is truly commendable. The most valuable building that belongs to public goods has been digitized, so the Internet can also be made available to the general public. We who use it are indeed eyewitnesses of it. There are various structures, starting with the 12th-century Charter of the Miroslav Gospel, the Handciples of the Pećke Patriarchy, Dosite Obradović, Milutin Milankovic, who testify about the scope and history of our cultural heritage, and are in the building of the National Library of Serbia. The collection of Miroslav’s Gospel and the journal “Zenit” was also digitized, which entered the World Cultural Treasure Corps. Dear ladies and gentlemen, society is not a set of individuals, but a set of communication. Therefore, communication of cultural heritage directly brings cultural heritage to the real life of the people and communities in which they live. To say that we will support this proposal from the Ministry and vote for it. Now a few sentences about the Museum's Labour Act. Since you, Madam Minister, have indeed made this very comprehensive and very detailed and specific explanation of what this is about, I will really try in a short while and if we could get into further history, but we have no intention at this time. Let me just say that this law on museum activity will finally see the light of day after more than four decades. The law will regulate the system, stressing the system, in a modern way to protect and use the museum building. And not only that, but also the running of museum documentation and will be determined for the first time really concrete conditions and ways of establishing museums and their work. I don't want to talk through history about museum collections, and I could talk, in a world since 1176 before the new era, and I'm not going to the modern museum today. A few sentences. Indeed, there are many definitions of museums today, and this law did not intend to define the museum. It was left to other sublaws, and if perhaps, in my opinion, it should define it, precisely because it has a lot of definitions and I don't think the experts agreed on it, I might be wrong, but I think that's it. However, I will tell you that for me, the most acceptable definition of the International Council of Museums, which reads, quotes - the museum is an unconventional, permanent institution in the service of society and its development, open to the public, which guards, investigates, publishes, exhibits material and immaterial heritage about people and their environment, in order to study, education and aesthetic experiences. In my opinion, that's the best definition, and when these statutes are passed, I'm really calling for a little broader view. I don't force this definition, because there's a lot of them. Let me put it this way, I'm not going through history, the 20th century has brought about major changes in museum operations, so these traditional, conservative institutions have had a great boom, a conceptual revolution, so to speak. Indeed, in terms of their setting, in terms of the exhibition, information is more accessible, more interesting, more open, and has preserved the results of scientific achievements and scientific objectivity. I'm taking the opportunity now, Madam Minister, when you said what you've really come and seen, it's just the beginning to me, you'll just be shocked by what exists in certain museums and what hasn't been arranged for years, and I'll say, for decades and more. The museum monitors spiritual changes in the world and its environment. The communication I first said directly brings cultural heritage into the real life of the people and communities in which they live. The museum's communication theory is therefore an integral part of the museum theory, or museology. Allow me, in the end, to say to the Minister, that you have taken great steps. That's what we were talking about, already in certain bodies on the board and other bodies of the Assembly, especially when we had a debate, reading about this law. However, our museums expect the matter of space to be resolved and I have no doubt that you will not solve it. I'm sure you will, more than ever. The issue of finance will also solve you, but we have problems with museum staff. We don't have as many museologists as we need, but we have a problem with the management staff. Often they're the brakes of the development of our museums, you'll see it, and probably as far as I can tell, you've seen it before. In the end, if Dragan Gilas had given the state of Serbia the money he robbed from the people, they would have built countless museums in our beautiful state. That's why I'm going to take the honorary minister for freedom, and it's about museums, because his coalition, or party colleague, said he destroyed a culture in Belgrade, to ask him 24 questions now short. First, is it true, and it is true that you, Mr. Gilas, falsely accused the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic and the current government and the state of Serbia of being fascist, when you said, quote - the day we change this power we will celebrate as another day of victory over fascism, is finished quote. Is this your relationship to the state of Serbia, Mr. Gilas? Unlike you, never, never, has Alexander Vukic been in the country, not abroad said that about you, not for the government, not for the state of Serbia. The second question - was it true, Mr Gilas, after returning from the United States, held a meeting with the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia at the Cachanska bar "Moravski alasi" on 4 July 2018, where the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia were and that you agreed to launch protests in the autumn to bring down Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic on the subject of Kosovo? Not by election, but by street, as you said, instead of taking down President Vukic, you needed Mr. Gilas to agree on how to get Kosovo back where you drove him from? And is it true that you said then, I quote, and it's true for me -- if we throw out the dialogue from the Assembly, then as a society we have a problem, the assembly is the place where we talk, if we stop it and all the media, they're going to explode somewhere, to whom Parliament needs to be, give a little sense, complete quote. The third question - is it true, Mr. Gilas, that you are constantly trying to fight us with steel friends of the Chinese, and that on August 17, 2020, you said and lied, quote - are we going to receive a Chinese vaccine that no one will receive in Europe, finished quote. Many Europeans are receiving the Chinese vaccine today. Do you feel at least a little arriving Mr. Gilas because of these lies when you work against the health of our citizens at a time when our President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens and the Crisis Staff, our heroes doctors, nurses and others are fighting an unmistakable fight for the health of all our citizens and for the country of Serbia? The fourth question - is it true, and I claim that it is, that you, Mr. Gilas, when Serbia was the third largest country in Europe after the UK and Switzerland, started the vaccination of its citizens, sent a letter to Brussels complaining that there was no reliable data in Serbia about when and how to vaccinate, with which to vaccinate Serbian citizens and that there was no medical means, which was a notorious lie, because our citizens were informed best about vaccinations in Europe. Mr Martinovic and the esteemed minister, Mr Vice-President, have entered the European Parliament in the report, Dragan Gilas and the opposition. I've got them exactly defined, but that's another occasion. The fifth question - is it true, and I claim that it is, that you, Mr Gilas, again sent a letter to the European Commission indicting President Aleksandar Vukic and the Republic of Serbia that we did not become part of the Kovaks mechanism at the moment when President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia agreed to pay an advance for the purchase of vaccines and thus defamation of President Vukic and the state of Serbia? Why are you doing this, Mr. Gilas? The sixth question - is it true, and I claim it is, that you have sued the European Commission of Alexander Vukic again for his gratitude to the Chinese for the help our iron friends of China have given us, and so for who knows which time you have no morals or shame when it comes to the disgrace of President Vukic and our country of Serbia? The seventh question - is it true, and I say it is true, that you, Mr. Gilas, on 13 August 2009 in a conversation with the US Embassy of Belgrade's Envoy, Jennifer Bras, have said, quote - I advocate the arrest of Ratko Mladic and will give up Kosovo. It's a finished quote. As you can see, respected Serbian citizens, Gilas gave up Kosovo as early as 2009. The 8th question – is it true, and I say it is, that you, Mr. Gilas, said bahato on August 13, 2020, quote - I paid the hotel 4,000 euros, and I can pay 17,000 euros for a villa at sea and shoes 5,000 euros? It's a finished quote. How did you get all that money, Mr. Gilas, and you were in political office? Mr. Gilas, teach the citizens of Serbia how to make huge money so quickly. The ninth question – is it true, and it is true that you, Mr Gilas, brutally offended President Vukic on May 5, 2020, by calling him a lunatic when you said "N1" quote – "Vučiću" you are crazy, finished quote. And on the question of journalist Jacqueline Tatalović – will you change that? You, Mr. Gilas, have answered your question – I will strengthen it, and then repeat it several times - Wolf, you are crazy. That, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our President Vukic is not for Gilas or anyone he has never told. Whoever insults whom, respected citizens of Serbia, you can best assess. I call on NGOs to talk about it, too. The tenth question – is it true, and it is true that you, Mr Gilas, on January 20, 2018, brutally offended President Vukic with a dictionary from the bottom of the snake when you said, quote – Vukiću you are a mad, finished quote. Only because Aleksandar Vukic as president of the state went to Kosovo and Metohija and spoke to our martyrs, i.e. with a fallen Serb people in our southern province. What are you saying, Mr. Gilas? Why are you saying that? Whether because of the haughtiness and the 619m euros in income of the pumped pockets of citizens or perhaps because of what we saw already in 2009, you gave up our southern Serbian province or perhaps the hatred of President Vukic, which will be that one, the other and the third. The 11th question – is it true, Mr Gilas, that on 27 August 2018, you brutally, unworthyly insulted the man when you said, quote – Vukic has mental problems, some disorders, finished quotes, and added quotes – shame on you, or to Vukic, you are a crazy man, finished quote. There, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who, while insulting Dragan Gilas. Do you know why the Gicky Mafia said that? Just because President Vukic is building "Belgrade on Water" with the Serbian government and citizens, which has built one of the ugliest parts of Belgrade the most beautiful promenade in Europe and has become one of the largest construction sites in this part of Europe, which builds highways, bridges, schools, hospitals and continues to count. The 12th question – is it true that you, Mr. Gilas, without any reason on 11 April 2020, are again by anyone who knows which time you brutally insulted President Vukic when you said, quote – Vukiću you are not normal, finished quote. Did you say that because President Vukic has no income of over 619m euros, nor accounts in Mauritius, Zurich, the Netherlands and Bulgaria, and 17 other countries in the world? The 13th question - Mr Gilas, is it true that you, Mr Gilasu, with your colleague from the same party, one of the members of the international gang of thieves and frauds, Vuk Jeremic, in 2008 without the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, requested the transfer of the Kosovo issue from the UN to the EU and thus brought EULEX to KIM, and thus put a knife in the back of their own people and state? Is that right, Mr. Gilas defending the honor of the country? The 14th question - is it true, and it is true, because the witnesses of all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that you, Mr. Gilas, together with your paltos in the image of Bozidar Djelic, Bojan Pajtic, Vuk Jeremic and others have conducted savage robbery privatisation and brought our country to the brink of bankruptcy and left Alexander Vukic and SNS to draw it from the deepest crisis in Serbia's recent history? The 15th question - is it true, and it is true that you, Mr. Gilas, were verbally and mediaically attacking Alexander Vukic, Dr. Kona, the Crisis Staff and the Government of Serbia only because they protected the lives of citizens when you said, quote - I am shocked by what Dr. Kon said. Doctor, what's going on with you? You said that without the support of the government and President Vukic, we would personally be in a disaster. What kind of support are you talking about for the government and Alexander Vukic? What has this government done? What do you support? , finished quote. Do you have today, Mr. Gilas, after a year of telling those lies to Serbian citizens at least a little shame and time to apologize to Dr. Kona, President Vukic, the Crisis Staff and the Government of the Republic of Serbia? You don't, because you have a lot of work to do to take care of the fabulous money in Mauritius and 17 other countries you stole from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The 16th question – is it true, and it is true that you, Mr. Gilas in 2011, while you were mayor of Belgrade, illegally sold four cable channels of your "Arena sport" to Telecom Serbia for 7.7m euros and so on Telecom Serbia, even though Telecom Serbia was not then allowed to own the media, were those 7.7m euros, Mr. Gilas perhaps on accounts in Mauritius, Zurich or Bulgaria? The 17th question – is it true, and it is true that you, Mr. Gilas, on December 12, 2020, had 620,147 euros in the accounts of your company's branches in Zurich? The 18th question – is it true that you, Mr. Gilas, on December 12, 2020, had 5,730,000 euros on your company's accounts in Mauritius and that you and your brother, Mr. Gilas, were users of these destinations? The 19th question – is it true, and it is true that actor Sergey Trifunović gave you the best rating of your political and moral personality when he said, on June 16, 2020, I quote - Gilasu is the main weapon in the policy of money that solves everything and buys political favor. The Alliance for Serbia never existed. What is Janko Veselinović now? Nothing. What are these others? Nothing. They're being held by Gilas, who comes out of money, they take two, three, then they go to Gligori, they get him to be the president of the state, to run, the deal with the people is a difficult fiction, Jeremic is untalented, and Gilas destroyed a culture in Belgrade, finished a quote. Here, you see, respected citizens. The 20th question, was it true, Mr Gilas, as the Evening News informs us, that you have 53 bills of $67.9 million and whether that amount was deposited in October 2020 and that the financial scheme extends from Mauritius, America, Macedonia, Croatia, Switzerland, Bulgaria, Montenegro, Serbia, Cyprus, Moldova and behold, Hong Kong. For a reason, I'm undermining Hong Kong. The twenty-first question, did you meet in Hong Kong, Mr. Gilas, with his party colleague Vuk Jeremic, where he operated with members of the international group of thieves and frauds Emilia Lozoev, chief financier Vuk Jeremic, Patrick Ho, former Hong Kong Interior Minister and Tidi Gadi, convicted in his time in the U.S. for money laundering. There's a connection, and I'm asking the D.A.'s office to examine it. The 20nd question, is it true how to inform Evening News that you have hidden huge money as the former mayor of Belgrade in 17 countries around the world? Twenty-three, is it true, and it is true that you, Mr. Gilas, met in Macedonia with criminals and thieves from Miami where you agreed on the functioning of the opposition in Serbia, to tear down President Vukic and bring you, Mr. Gilas to power, not by election, but by street where you received certain financial resources to finance "One of the Five Million" with the aim of overthrowing President Vukic's power? But you have a problem, Mr. Gilas, the citizens have read you well. The twenty-fourth and final question, is it true, and I claim it is, that you and your political electric rabbit, Marinika Tepic, spit on the victims of Jasenovac when in the duet you lauded the publication of a tweeter saying that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, a sick man and that he should be treated only because he said that he saw the film of Predraga Gage Antonijevic "Dara from Jasenovac" because he stated that the president was difficult and important for our people who suffered. This Twitter player was particularly angry that President Vukic said that the realization of the film took place on his initiative. Finally, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Gilas daily deceives and lies, he has accounts in Mauritius, Zurich, the Netherlands, Croatia, Bulgaria, in 17 countries around the world. That's why media attacks on President Vukic these days are getting more intense and will be even stronger by the spray, the tycoon-mafian political groups and individuals associated with foreign power centres. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, they have only one goal, which is to bring down President Aleksandar Vukic and stop and speed up the process of economic progress and the overall modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, knowing that Serbia's engine of accelerated modernisation is President Vukic. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, while our President of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, daily returns our country's international reputation throughout the world, implementing a policy of peace, solidarity, a policy of health for all citizens in the country and the environment, a policy of accelerated economic progress in these difficult pandemic times, the bastard Dragan Gilas is doing everything he can to preserve his huge millions of euros and dollars in the accounts of Mauritius, Zurich, Holland, Bulgaria, Croatia, Hong Kong, and God knows which other countries. We beat the mob, there's no turning back, surrender's not an option. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4820	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Bosiljka Srdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4821	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues, has so far been edited by the Cultural Goods Act, which was adopted in 1994, which regulates the general and common issues of the protection of cultural goods. That is why it is very important to point out that this is the first time that a law that deals exclusively with museum activity shows that the state itself recognises the very important role of museums in society in the preservation of culture, tradition, identity and identity in general. At the same time, by creating this law, Serbia is approaching world practice that recognises separate laws in the museum's work. Professionalism in the accession of the creation of this law is evident with the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia because for the purposes of draft law making, the Working Group was formed by the most prominent experts in museum work in the Republic of Serbia as well as professional advisers from the ministry itself. Transparency in the work of this law is also evident in the fact that the entire Serbian museum community is also familiar with the making of laws through expert associations, and that all comments and possible objections could be directed through the same associations, as well as through three realised public discussions in Novi Sad, Nis and Belgrade. In this way, the expert community had the opportunity to directly participate in its proposals and make it even better and more useful for the profession. The main goal is to systematically regulate the museum area through strengthening museum institutions and adapting to European practices, by introducing the most modern standards and establishing a network of museums, which will lead to the improvement of the entire profession. In accordance with the objective of this law, it fully regulates the system of protection and use of museum buildings, documentation management, conditions and way of establishing museums and their regular work. The core work of the museum is now clearly defined and arranged and it has been implemented in most cases but only with this law has the practice so far been clearly established. The very definition of conditions for the establishment of museums and their work except museums will significantly facilitate work and local self-government. In this way, local self-government itself will be directly familiar with all museum obligations but more importantly, their obligations as founder. The law will facilitate communication and co-operation between museums and their founders. In addition to the basic issue of regular work of the newspaper museum, it is in the law to establish the Serbian Museum Council as a kind of place between networks-related museums and competent institutions. The Ministry of Culture will, in this way, be regularly, truly and in good time informed about all the issues and problems that museums face and will be able to help them solve them. According to the law itself, the Museum Council will be established within six months of the date of the law's entry into force, as a professional advisory body for the performance of tasks of interest in the museum's work in general. In order to improve the work of the museum council, the law also regulates the creation of a network of museums that will communicate and exchange experiences and practices with each other. In addition, and not less importantly, it is the identification of private museums and their alignment with regular museum practice and the final definition of galleries as specialized museums. Also, an initiative to change the name of the so far-called National Museum in Belgrade at the National Museum of Serbia and to position the museum as central, and in addition to that, a clear establishment of several museums as parent for different areas. Then, the issue of fundamental importance is certainly digitisation, in this case the digitisation of heritage and therefore makes it a special part of the law, stressing the necessity of digitisation, which provides the availability of a museum building. The unique conclusion that can be carried out is that the law is comprehensive and, more importantly, it is not only copied from already existing European and worldly practices, but is carefully written to meet the current conditions and possibilities, i.e. that it is fully feasible and applicable. Dear Minister, your associates and members of the Task Force on this congratulation. This law is a logical and necessary step towards the systematic arrangement of museum activity as an area of protection of cultural goods. I will take advantage of the opportunity to make an important minister, the city of Kikinda has sent you a call, and I am from this place joining the call and inviting you to visit Kickinda and open it, as the exhibition titled "Citizens". On that occasion, I would like to introduce you to a project that has already been done for the permanent setting of the museum. I think it would be a great pleasure for you to get acquainted with a project like this, and on that road your support and help is certainly necessary, and also to visit a unique museum in Europe, and I think wider, the museum sculpture of a large format in a terracott, or famous works. What I would also end up saying is that Kikinda is a city that takes great care of culture, both its objects and its contents, and in that name you will be a dear guest. Because of the importance of this law, or rather, the importance of culture, I will certainly vote for it in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4822	Thank you. The next is MP Lav Grigorija Pajkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4823	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister Gojkovic and his associates, honourable MPs, many respected citizens, I would first of all like to point out that this bill of law and decision is another proof that the Serbian government and President Vukic consider culture a priority in our country. Although I must admit that it has been obvious since the moment you were set up by Minister Gojkovic, because you already have great results behind you and for this short period, when I speak to you right now you have really great successes and you have already achieved a lot, I look forward to that very continuity. Before I commit myself to the proposal for a law on museum activity, I would like to take a brief look at the proposal for a decision to declare a library building for cultural well-being of exceptional importance. So it's 720 old and rare books that will get the highest cultural protection, which is extremely important, because these books are of enormous value and this will be an adequate way of treating these works. To go back to the very subject of the law, and my colleagues talked a lot about the positive aspects of the law. I have a desire to talk briefly about how the current government is and how President Vukic has just treated museums, how we have invested in museums and how they look today, I will just go through and believe, as you know, there are many of them, but I would like to mention just one of the most beautiful ones, who seem really impressive, there is, of course, the Wolf and Dosite Museum, which now looks great, I really recommend to the citizens to visit it. Of course, the Museum of Contemporary Art, which shines with a new glow. These are all beautiful things, beautiful initiatives, and this is just proof that the government and the current government is investing in culture. Then the Museum of Science and Technology, which personally delights me, because Serbia has made so many great scientists, inventors, and it is just good to have a place where our citizens can visit and hear more about it and to somehow remember our heroes. They're all our heroes. Then, the Ethnographic Museum and, of course, the National Museum, which, as you know, is one of the great cultural battles that has been fought and won by this current government, and today is the National Museum, one of the most popular places, because a large number of citizens visit it and it makes me deeply happy. Now that we're talking about it, me as tradition tells us, I've had the opportunity to talk about cultural centres, and I want to talk about the contribution of the former regime, the kind of museums they left us, not the former regime, are increasingly popular like that Mauricios opposition, so let's look at what it looks like and what museums are like. Here's one museum, first of all, to say that you're not worried, this isn't some Chernobyl, or something like that, this is the museum of the boast of the former regime, Azotara, we could all see it when we enter Novi Sad, as it seems, here about 1300 citizens lose their jobs, only to have the parts of the former regime, this team around Bojan Pajtic, all of which are associates and people who are extremely esteemed by Dragan Gilas, in order to have some more money. Of course, we have two museums that are directly related to Dragan Gilas, he is a great sponsor of these museums. It is the "museum of shame" raised by Dragan Gilas, in the pioneer town, I am talking about Big Brother's house. It's one of the most exclusive locations in Belgrade, one of the most beautiful locations, and many of us grew up there and visited the pioneer town, and there's Dragan Gilas decided to pick up this container, this garbage, if I can say so, and that's a compliment, and now there's a lot of problems, and he couldn't quite get permission for it, because he wanted to be some sort of permanent object, and then he didn't get permission, and then it was an assembly facility, and now, look out, it's this corrupt magic of Dragan Gilas, he said, be careful now, that he gave us this gift. This is a gift from Dragan Gilas to the citizens of Serbia, thank you. We really needed one of these things, and that thing went even deeper, so that we could all benefit from this facility, Big Brother's house, and why? Because it's meant for children's accommodations. Imagine, for the children's house the Big Brother's house, and there's no more, I can't say, first of all, if he had some big glow, it doesn't look like that today. I had a chance as a leader to go around that location and I have to say that I'm joking, that my crew didn't have a good time there today, since there are rats and dogs and junkies and there's nothing left. There are definitely no children, but he left such a thing to our children, Dragan Gillas. Then we have the same so-called. Watch out for the city, though it looks more like a quick break-up like a drug town. It is also one of the smart investments of Dragan Gilas, where he took three hundred thousand euros on this project with a beautiful one. Let me tell you, this might be good for a location to shoot some horror movie and some B, C production, so, man is on that level. Dear People's MPs and respected citizens, believe me, there are hundreds of such museums of shame left behind by the former regime and Dragan Gilas. It's up to us to have that in mind, to remember that. Just like this, some locations remind us of some sadder and worse times, but to follow President Vukic's vision, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, Minister Maja Gojkovic, who really has the idea of raising the culture in Serbia to a truly higher level. When we looked at all of this, I must say, it's not surprising that we have accounts for these museums all over the world of Dragan Gilas, because for every one of these museums of shame he's earned millions now by Mauritius, even though he doesn't believe it, I might suggest to him that, let's just say, he send a delegation from Mauritius to the Big Brother's house or make a trip, so he can see how it looks. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4824	Thank you. Next up, she's a colleague of Svetlana Miljic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4825	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with Co-operation, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament say that the German politician, philosopher and sociologist Ralph Darendorf said that changes in transition can happen in politics, in fact, in six months if the country is in transition, in the economy for six years, and in culture for as many as 60 years. However, as contemporarys and political witnesses led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 2014, we have witnessed here to change with hard work and great pawnage can happen much earlier, not only in political life, economic, trade, social, but also in culture as a specific social activity. What we should point out is that the importance of culture in the development of all the countries of those small, those big, those rich, those poor is immeasurable and can even be said that every development, or every beginning, begins with culture. So the political power in one country begins with a cultural election, i.e. by expressing the will of the citizens in the elections, thus expressing their will, by choosing a political party that will hold political power in one country over a period of time. Now, that, Dragan Djilas and his followers, such as Bosko Obradović, Marinika Tepic and those who have huge accounts in various countries, are unculturally, or anti-culturally seeking to show up, that is, to come and take over political power in the Republic of Serbia and culturally, according to their treatment, by burning books in Knez Mihailovo, breaking down the building, or the door in the National Assembly, by kidnapping cultural goods, or artistic paintings, etc. And it seems to me that Dragan Gilas culturally, in a culturally nice way, is also very culturally visiting these 17 exotic countries where he deposited almost 68 million dollars in various currencies in 57 accounts. Now, that's the cultural policy that Dragan Gilas and his followers would like to lead. But let us go back to the draft law that is before us today and about which we are discussing in the tide and we can say that when it comes to museological action in Serbia, changes are visible for the better. They are visible because in 2017 we renovated the building of the Museum of Contemporary Art, and on Vidovdan 2018 we opened a reconstructed new building of the National Museum of Serbia. The plan is to build a new National Museum building in Nis, where the Nislims are truly grateful. When it comes to culture, or museum work, not only are museums and other institutions being opened and renovated, but new deposits are also being raised, exhibition activities are also becoming more and more fast and extensive, permanent settings are being opened, and our institutions that have been neglected for the past 30 years are getting a new rujo. Today, in front of us, there is a bill on museum work which is of great importance for our country, because for the first time in history museum work is defined through one legal act, which was not so far the case, but we had a law on cultural goods from 1994 in which this area of museums was also arranged. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia and you, Minister Gojkovic, with your associates, recognized the importance of museum action, and we see that, in front of us, the draft law, which preceded the public hearing, or round tables held in Belgrade, Nis and Novi Sad and in which you participated, as you said earlier and alone, is over 140 of the most invited people in this area, and as a result today, we have this draft law ahead of us. The proposed law retains all good practices from previous legal acts dealing with museum activity, and also notices the systematic improvement of activity through strengthening museum institutions in line with good examples from European practice and the introduction of newest standards. The establishment of a high-quality and stable museum network, linking institutions, which was the legislator's obvious intention, will create conditions to improve the entire museum profession in Serbia. I call upon you, the Honorable Minister, to visit the city of Nis, because the town of Nis has something to boast about in the cultural and historical heritage. What we can mention is the archaeological site of the Median, the Cell Tower, etc. So in the day for the vote of the other colleagues and I from the legislator bench Aleksandar Vukic – we will vote for our children for the proposal of this law. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4826	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4827	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected Mrs Gojkovic with a co-worker, stands before us today a set of very important and constructive draft laws, I would personally refer to the proposal for a law on museum action, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Cultural heritage represents the unique and irreplaceable cultural value of a nation, because it has been created for generations directly points to the social but overall educational, cultural and civilizational level of development. Often this term is related only to paintings, drawings, sculptures, historical monuments, buildings, and archaeological sites. The very notion of cultural heritage is far broader than that and over time has grown so that it includes all evidence of human creativity and expression, such as photographs, documents, books, manuscripts, instruments, either as individual objects or as parts of a particular collection. Today, cities, an underwater heritage, a natural environment, are also considered part of the cultural heritage, as communities are identified with natural landscape. What is more, cultural heritage is not limited to material objects that we can see and touch, but consists of immaterial elements, traditions, oral history, stage art, social practice, traditional craftsmanship, performances, dances, music, rituals, knowledge and skills passed down from generation to generation, or as our people say – from knee to knee, of course, within one community. We must note that cultural heritage is not just a set of objects or traditions from the past, it is also the result of the selection process, the process of memory and oblivion, which characterizes every human society that is constantly involved in choosing for both cultural and political reasons. What's important is saving for future generations and what's not? The value of cultural heritage, whether material or immaterial in constant growth, is due to the natural conditioned duration of life, but also because of the unstable environment in terms of the development of new technologies and changes in style and lifestyle. This concerns the preservation of cultural heritage in the XXI century, not only the declarative obligation of competent institutions, but also the moral role of the entire modern society, which recognises the importance of cultural heritage creates conditions for its preservation and future. We must note that all nations contribute to the world’s culture, or to the world’s cultural heritage. It is therefore further important to respect and preserve national cultural heritage through national laws and, of course, international contracts. That's exactly what this bill does. The Cultural Goods Act was adopted in 1994 in the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the termological obsolescence, the law mentioned in its character is a general regulation, as it regulates common issues of protection of cultural goods, so, archivistism, museology, old and rare book, immovable cultural goods and cinematheque. Taking into account the need for systematic arrangements for each individual area of protection of cultural goods, according to specificities, it is necessary to adopt regulations to regulate the museum building protection system as a type of mobile cultural goods and museum documentation. The adoption of this law creates a framework for ensuring full protection and preservation of museum construction as mobile cultural goods in a unique way, regardless of the form in which it is created or where it is located, but also raises awareness of the importance of preserving museum construction as mobile cultural goods and our heritage for future generations, i.e. awareness that the most important items of material and elements of immaterial cultural heritage must be protected from destruction. Also, every time it comes to culture and preservation of cultural heritage, I note that the Serbian people of Krajina, whose own member I am, have long waited and cried out for a serious landscape cultural centre. By building such a centre, we preserve tradition, history and customs, we preserve Orthodox religion, language and Cyrillic letter, so the identity of Serbs from space like, Dalmatia, Kordun, Banije, Slavonia and Baranja, that is, the identity of the Serbs of the former Republika Srpska Krajina. We Krajina Serbs have been destroyed and kidnapped by the birthplace, the grandfather, the fatherland that once was God's paradise. What about today? Today, respected colleagues and citizens of Serbia can make horror movies and horrors. The estates are abandoned, the cemetery healed, and the Serbs on centuries-old hearth are almost gone. So please, dear Mrs. Gojkovic, have strength, will and hearing for us. By building one of these cultural centers, for example in Zemun, we enroll ourselves in wise nations that preserve their history, customs and tradition. Also, these days we have had the opportunity to see the scandalous publication of SDP candidate material for the mayor of Zagreb, Josko Klisovic, which shows a map of the great Croatia where Zemun, Sremska Mitrovica, Šid and Fruška gora National Park are attached to Croatia. I, as a people's messenger from Zemun, and as someone who came from the Krajina, can't keep this quiet. This is a typical example of provoking and collecting political points in anti-Serbian politics. Imagine what would be the reaction of the world and Europe, for example, if I were here as a national MP or any other Serbian official said that it was time for Knin and Dubrovnik to be Serbian again or, in the pre-election campaign, to print material on which Knin or Dubrovnik are part of Serbia. At the very least, all European and world officials would be shot down. If you ask me, it's too often that Croatian officials turn out to be. We almost had a similar statement from the Croatian admiral retired Davor Domazet Los, who said the Croatian country is Srem, Baka and parts of Banat. So we're free to say that this is an old threat, but the threat that at one point in our history was also reality. Let's just remind ourselves that during the genocide of NDH Zemun was under occupation and that, for example, the Chief of Zemun wore the name of Ustasha criminal Ante Pavelic, and Lord, in which we all like to sit, Adolf Hitler. Should we remind ourselves of these monstrous, state-of-the-art crimes that surpassed all Nazi dreams in the extermination of lower nations and races, and the tomb of the largest number of Serbs ever killed in all wars and conflicts so far, the state whose only purpose of existence was to be just a big pit for Serbs? Serbs were killed for only one reason, because they were Serbs. Should we remind ourselves of the camp of Jasenovac, Stara Gradiška, Jadovna, Jastrebarski? Should we remind ourselves of the pits of death that flooded Lika, Dalmatia, Bania, Kordun? Should we remind ourselves of killing and slaughtering Serbs with sweetness? Ustashas killed Serbs not because they were forced, but because it was state policy. We can also touch on the newer policies of Croatia, i.e. the creation of ethnically pure Croatia, or the action of Storm when more than 280,000 Serbs were expelled, when 920 cultural and historical monuments were destroyed, when 78 churches were destroyed, burned and 40,000 households were robbed. We can also touch the newer European policies of Croatia – killing Serbs or Serbs on willows. These kind of passwords and graphite are almost everyday, and no one reacts to them. Croatia, an EU Member State, in which, according to the Constitution and the law, Serbs have guaranteed rights and cannot serve in their own language or in their own letter. All we can think of is the scene when 20,000 Splitns welcomed the Serbian army as liberators in World War I, and today? Today, in the same Split, Serbs are thrown into the sea only because they are Serbs. There, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, this is the policy of a European state. Dear fellow MPs, I mention all of this because every Serbian from Krajina and every member of the Serbian people feels the same way, thinks the same thing when they see a map of the great Croatia, and Europe continues to remain silent and I wonder what kind of message it sends us? So, pro-Prostava policy has long been present in Croatian society, so I am not surprised personally by these attitudes, nor am I surprised that this fall has been done by a professional diplomat, Josko Klisovic. What bothers me and worries me, and what I will always point out is the EU's impotence and silence. Thank God Serbia today is an economically and militaryly stable country. A good state-of-the-art policy, especially our president, has modernised the military, has stabilized the economy. Serbia today is stronger and more powerful, not threatening anyone, but values the lives of its citizens and is ready to protect them at any moment. I apologize for maybe leaving a little bit of the topic. As far as the bill itself is concerned, it is an important law for Serbia that contributes to system arrangements in the area of protection of cultural goods. That is why I will personally, and I hope that my colleagues in the voting day will support this, as well as other proposals in the hope that they will be the support in the fight for strong and modern Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4828	Thank you. Next is counterpart Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4829	Thank you. Dear citizens, fellow MPs, respected Minister Gojkovic, today's debate on the proposal for a law on museum action is a good opportunity to show how much the Republic of Serbia, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, has progressed, has been reborn in this sphere of life. As an example of a general social rebirth, I will only give two examples of the restoration of museum work. The first example is the National Museum in Belgrade, because after 12 dark years, the restored building of the National Museum in Belgrade finally opened the door for all visitors. The big event was for the Republic of Serbia. The opening ceremony was attended by state officials, prominent figures from the sphere of art, culture and science, as well as by a large number of citizens. At the time of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, she said the National Museum was returned to all citizens. Certainly, the assessment of many was that this event is an event that happens once in our lives. Also, after being closed to the public for ten years, the Belgrade Museum of Contemporary Art building was renovated and returned to all citizens. In addition to these significant republican museum institutions that have been renovated, I will refer to three institutions in the city where I come from, a city that holds the prestigious title of European capital of culture – Novi Sad. First of all, I will list the Mother of Serbia Gallery, which we are all proud of, which is the richest art museum in the newer age of Serbia. It was founded in 1847, and has been acting as an independent institution of the Serbian Mother since 1958. Its permanent exhibition chronicles the selected works from the entire art fund, which contains about 5,000 works of art significant for the national history of the newer age and culture of the Serbian people in Vojvodina from the end of the 16th century to the end of the 21st century. All works of art received by the Serbian Matice Gallery on a gift from numerous donors, may be taken over by the SPC and other owners, bought from private property, protected and used under appropriate conditions. All of this can be looked at in permanent or occasional exhibitions. The Vojvodina Museum is an institution of culture with a museum tradition of more than 150 years. It is one of the largest museums of complex types in Serbia that keeps inaccessible cultural heritage collected in the Vojvodina area in its collections. It was founded in 1847 in Pesta, at the meeting of the Serbian Board of Directors on the initiative of prominent Serbs from Vojvodina. In the end, the Museum of Novi Sad was founded in 1954 and belongs to the category of city museums of complex type, whose work includes the development of the city from its origin to modern times. It is made up of the Department of History with collections from the fields of economic, socio-political history and history of the Petrovaradin Fortress, Department of Cultural History with collections from the fields of art, applied art, education and publishing, Department of Ethnology with collections from the fields of art, rural architecture, everyday and ordinary life and a traditional gallery that collects works of contemporary art. In recent years, along with regular work at the New Sad Museum, major infrastructure projects have been implemented. This expanded the exhibition capacity of the museum. I'll only name two. In 2014, when the museum celebrated 60 years of existence, a large war well was opened and reconstructed, a specific, unique environment in the interior of the Petrovaradin Fortress, a place which visitors love to visit. In 2015 an atrium was opened in the central building of the Museum at the Petrovaradin Fortress. This amazing space is a combination of modern architectural solutions and elements of the 18th century military architecture. This museum has received an extremely attractive exhibition space. Therefore, given the need for systematic arrangements for each individual area of protection of cultural goods, according to its specificities, the adoption of the Law on Museum Activity is a condition of system approach and regulation of areas of protection of movable cultural goods, museum buildings in a comprehensive and meaningful way. Unfortunately, a number of cultural goods protection institutions due to the lack of funding problems by local self-government are not able to carry out its regular work properly. Now the question is why there was no money or interest for culture, and according to each other. If we start with the fact that the pathological hatred of Alexander Vukic and SNS seriously affects the sound judgment of previous authorities, now led by Dragan Gilas, I only have one dilemma whether this pathology is imported or through their friends they export, will show future time. This may not be important for culture, but it's very important to add selective amnesia to this pathology. Why the selective? That's why someone would remember where everyone around the world put the money away from the citizens of Serbia, and at the same time they don't remember that for health, education, culture, and a lot of things, their citizens, they did one big nothing. Although they have no reason to worry, let them return the money, and for the treatment we have provided new hospitals, new equipment, vaccines, when necessary. We help and friends in the region, we help them too, just bring back the robbery. Finally, I want to point out my belief that the Minister of Culture and Information, Ms. Maja Gojkovic, will also lead this ministry, as it has led this Assembly since 2014, until this time calls for 2020. The proposal for this law is quite sufficient to confirm that problems and improvements in work in this area will be resolved systemically and continuously. I want every good thing to you and the Ministry, and I'm pretty sure I'm right to say this. In the voting day, I will be pleased to support the proposed Law on Museum Action.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4830	Thank you. The next is MP Nikola Vojnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4831	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, distinguished minister with associates, respected citizens, for the last few days I have felt great pride living in a country like Serbia today, pride that Serbia can help itself today and then all the countries in the region, because it is the real face of Serbia and these values we should teach our children and such values to leave them in their heritage. The progress Serbia has made over the past few years will only be seen from a certain time distance. From this angle we can see and feel only part of that progress, and our children will benefit from the fruits of our work. Because of the way life today and the speed of information that is going around, we don't have time to look at them and understand them, to process them, to think about them. Then the problem arises that in the sea of news that we receive on the daily level is the vast majority of untrueness and only comes down to the humiliation of someone's work and the results of that work, regardless of whether they are good or bad, and here I am specifically referring to the results of the work of President Vukic and SNS. All that we do, what we bring back to life our culture, we strengthen our national identity, what we do in the better life of citizens at all, we have to expose more to the media, to make it clear to everyone, not because of the SNS, but because of the improvement of Serbia and the future of our children. We must not allow all good things to be suppressed and seen for spreading lies. As one good thing, right now the strongest and most important thing, are vaccines. Serbia is the third in the world to immunize the population and this scenario only a few years ago would have been in the domain of science fiction with the then rule, so ten years ago, and today it's reality. Today in Serbia, we can choose a vaccine, well, almost every continent. And again we hear voices from those who obviously do not want Serbia well, so they confuse the citizens of Serbia, that receiving the vaccine is not good and that it is harmful, so if so, would Russia poison its citizens, would China poison its citizens, would America poison its citizens, etc., if I did not? What if we didn't have vaccines, like many countries in Europe and the region don't? So I ask and appeal to the citizens to receive the vaccine in as large a number as possible and that by the end of May we have over 2.5 million re-vaccinated citizens, that Serbia can free itself of this virus and continue its course, which is the way of progress. We must work as much as possible on the education of our citizens in all spheres of life and just by passing the Museum's Labour Act, we are doing so. In order to achieve even the basic preconditions for cultural development, the cultural and historical heritage had to first stabilise the state in economic terms, which we have succeeded. Today Serbia is the leader of the region and has the strength to care for its cultural heritage, as has not been done so far. This is why today we are talking about the Museum's Labour Act, which will create a framework for the protection and preservation of museum buildings as a cultural goods. What is very important, this law will affect the development of awareness of the importance of preserving our cultural heritage for future generations, that is, the awareness that the most important items of our cultural heritage must be protected from destruction. For these very reasons today, we have a proposal to declare 720 old and rare books for cultural goods of exceptional importance. These books are already cultural goods in themselves, but because of their special importance for our science and culture, as well as because of the unique specimens, a procedure has been launched for them to receive the greatest categorization in terms of protection, and these are cultural goods of exceptional importance. Of course, during the period ahead of us, we will work even more to develop our country in every way, so will culture, for the better future of our children and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4832	Thank you. The word is Mr Jadranka Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4833	Thank you, Chairman. I'm very happy to see the topic of culture again. So, the proposal for a law on museum activity, as well as a proposal for a decision on another contingent of rational, authentic, old books, and all this in the context of one of the many times-repeated actions that began in 1979, which covers everything that is really valuable when it comes to our books. This time, as has already been said, 720 books that, the proposal should fall under that name – cultural goods of exceptional importance. This Law on Museum Activity, and I particularly welcome it, has suffered major and serious transformations, modernisations, modernisations, because the current 1994 law somehow had a broad meaning and did not define in detail and in particular everything that museum works. I'm extremely pleased and I've done a lot of work, I've read all these proposals and in short, it's probably said so far, not only to define the systematization of the way of work, but also to protect the museum's work, use of museum construction, but what's very important, is a system of common, information that would create a single system in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to museum activity, and that is why I've joined all that international standards. This includes, of course, professional staff training for this kind of digitisation. I am sorry, I was not able today, and I wanted to follow all the exhibitions and be present in parliament all the time because of this subject, because I am also hosting a high-level delegation of Francophonia that is visiting our country from Belgium and France, so I am sorry in advance if I repeat some things, but it is not a waste because this law certainly contributes and once grows the awareness of every single person in our country how important it is and how important it is to us to preserve the museum's work not only when it comes to history and science and culture, but also as something that raises the awareness of every individual in the preservation of our cultural goods, not to talk about how much it will affect tourism. We heard that it was an extremely high quality and good public debate and I am glad that experts, I believe with all their knowledge and great well-meaning, gave their suggestions, and I have no doubt that the Ministry of Culture and, as well as analytically, with attention, sacrificedly, examined every suggestion and made us a proposal for what is certainly best for our country's culture, history and heritage. Without intending to take time and others, since there are many speakers, and I say that I do not repeat things that may have been said before me, I would still only take one small look, here through this proposal, which is that we also know that there is a tendency in us to reduce, minimise, not to use any other word, in some and completely deny everything that the Government does in the field of culture and what it has done and in the previous term, to deny our efforts in parliament and our need and our desire to deal with culture, not to talk about the Ministry of Culture, not to talk about one continuous repetition that the ruling party does not pay attention to culture, it is simply not true. I'm actually saying that it's impossible to accept that imposing someone's opinion that it's incorrectly true. We also care about culture. There are facts, there's evidence, there's a lot of things that have been done. I am now, here for five years in parliament and I must say that this assembly has not pushed a whole series of problems from culture under the carpet - on the contrary, while some others have done so, with some problems that are very complicated and that are not at all a simple series of MPs and ministers and governments, met clearly, courageously, determined and a whole series of results are positive and that is the only thing that is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4834	Thank you. Next is the MP, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4835	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's very difficult to talk about this topic, about culture, about art after my distinguished colleague, Master Jadranka Jovanovic, who is living proof that SNS has great staff in all areas of social life and culture, which we consider to be a very important factor in the development of our country, in addition to the economy, social policy, everything that we are led by President Aleksandr Vukić to fight daily to improve, to modernise our country. Of course, as far as culture, education, science on the agenda is concerned today, we have this Law on the arrangement and definition and improvement of museum work, in our country, that this will affect the development of culture, that this will affect the better positioning of culture as one important segment of our country's development, and I will remind, of course, all my fellow Members, the MPs that we and after receiving our statehood in 1878, at the beginning of the development of our country, the modern state had great and good politicians who treated culture and education as the most important and important tools and weapons of our people and our country on the road to modernization, on the way to total independence, on the path to defending our national and all other interests. I would like to mention Stojan Novakovic, who was also Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, an experienced diplomat who also served in Russia, Tsar Russia, Turkey, who invested a lot of energy along with members of his government and invested time and money in culture, education, wherever the Serbian people lived, knowing that only this way would protect themselves, protect their language, protect their cultural and historical heritage. This is what we are trying to do today and I want to remind the citizens of Serbia and my distinguished fellow MPs that just a few years ago President Vukic defined and introduced culture as one of the main segments of our development, among other things, the culture of memory, the culture of respect for the flag, the culture of respect for our historical heritage, our famous historical personalities that you have built this country, which strengthened this country from its very beginning, from its creation, from Germany, to the Holy Sava to today, and I think that we should and very easily can also make a political consensus when it comes to this because all of this is due to, of course, to our people, to our country, and simply everything we have shown in the field of economics, in terms of policy and geopolitical positioning, we are slowly beginning to show and when it comes to the area of culture, when it's a little bit of our cultural protection, which is just a little bit of our historicality, which is our own. As far as we can see, we are fighting many countries in the region on this issue, and we simply need to understand that we have one great advantage as the largest, economically strongest state, if you want me to say it, and the oldest state, the country that is oldest in this region, has a long-standing, or centuries-old tradition of its statehood. But life has taught us, and everyday life has taught us that little neighbors and all others are trying to take over and own that part of our statehood, part of our cultural and historical heritage. I am sure that when it comes to culture in general, the protection of cultural heritage will experience its bloom, my renaissance because in the next period, especially over the next few years, while respecting everything about culture and the importance of culture knows and can be done by Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic, thinking that one and of course is the best solution for the Minister of Culture, someone who knows what the state is, someone who knows what it means for a country, for its survival, is important for its future to promote its culture, to invest in culture and, of course, to become one of the main segments of social life in one country, and we as a country are on that path. It needs to be open to the citizens, it needs to be open to everyone in this country and say that there is simply no cultural development unless there is an economic development. If we don't have new investments, if we don't have money, if we don't strengthen the economy daily, we can't expect some big results, nor can we expect Mrs Gojkovic or anyone else to have a magic wand. Simply, strengthening and strengthening the position, that is, the role of culture in our society, depends on the development of these other segments that are developing, in whose fields we have shown that we can make much progress, that we can do a lot of work, that we can lead to our country developing its culture, that it is kept, which is very important, because the facts of which Mrs Gojkovic today spoke, that in museums, in various cultural institutions, there has been theft, the loss of the tremendously valuable artifacts of our heritage, our heritage, our royal and princely dynasty, and that is simply unacceptable. It is necessary to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this effort, in addition to being involved and to know what and what position culture should have in our society, that we also have a culture of security. Because if we don't have a culture of security, what happened to us during the former regime will happen to us, so we run out of valuable paintings from day to day, valuable cultural, historical heritage. One day we will say that, even here from the Assembly, I remember and it was a great honor and pleasure to spend six years and work as someone who was vice president of the National Assembly and worked intensively and daily with Mrs. Gojkovic, she had one great initiative to find stolen things, or very important things, since in this high house and building everything you see, everything you touch here, has its very great historical and cultural value. There were even some results, which shows that this action was not carried out for marketing, but we were able to find a few chairs and track down some pictures. I hope that this type of action and this type of activity will continue in the future. In any case, not only here in the National Republic of Serbia Assembly, this is an eclectic example that, simply, in some periods of our history, this time closer to history, there has been such a phenomenon that even from this high home, perhaps the most significant institutions and the most valuable building in our country, there is a disappearance of things and a theft of things, and that happened during that so-called so-called. The coup or on October 5, 2000, which showed, of course, that it was not a political goal, among other things, was, but was the goal of what was subsequently shown in the coming years, to witness next to the chairs, next to the pictures, next to the inventory of the National Assembly, the woes and the states in the coming years, which, unfortunately, we were all witnesses until 2012. I hope that, Mrs Gojkovic, you will continue with this kind of activity, unrelated only to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but when it comes to institutions throughout our country. For last, let me just say that we need the results definitely in this area. I can't help but mention, wanting to finish my speech, we need successful stories. One of these success stories is today's interview with President Alexander Vukic for the US CNN. I would, frankly, prefer that he gave the interview for CNN and Fox News, to see all of America, the entire American continent and the whole world, and it is about Serbia being recognized today in the US and around the world, in addition to being able to successfully immunize in its country, helping its neighbours, helping the region, and showing that after our behaviour in this part of Europe, which succeeds, in addition to all the challenges, and in spite of everything that has hit the world in the past and in this year, it is not only the virus, but also the war, the terror, all the other monsters in the globe, that it can preserve its people, and that it has full capacity, and the political and ethical state that it can take care of all this country, in addition to the health system, that all the money, the money, all the other monsters on the globe, is concerned by the fact, that all the country, that it has been able to protect its people, in addition to take care and the health care of all the country, that the country, that it is, that it's everything that it's everything that it's all the money, that it's all the money, that it's all the country that it's, that it's safe, that it's all the country that it's all the country that it's, that it's been safe, that it, that it's, that it's it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's it's it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's it's it's, that it's, that it's, that it's, that it's all, that it's all the right, that it's, that it's all the right, that it's all the right, that it's all the right, that it's the right, that it's, that's, that's all the right, that's the right, that's all the right, that's all the right, the right, that's the right, that's all of the right, the right, that's the right, the right, that's And just like that, and that's what's definitely going to go into history when it comes to Alexander Vukic's leadership, that he's managed to connect all segments of social life so that they upgrade to each other, like dice, strong economy, strong political position, strong social policy, so there'll be more investment, we'll be strong in culture, in tourism and in all other segments. Serbia has become a winning nation since a losing nation in the 1990s, unfortunately in early 2000. We started winning in the economy, we started winning in geopoliticals, we're going to win in culture, we're going to win, of course, still in sports, thanks to our dedication as SNS, and, of course, our leader, Alexander Vukic, who leads our country in this kind of way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4836	Thank you. Next is counterpart Milenka Subic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4837	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, today we have two important documents, a proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being and a proposal for a law on museum activity. The reasons for the adoption of the Law on Museum Action are multiple. A lot has changed since 1994 until today. This law provides us with the possibility of systematic access and arrangements to protect movable cultural goods of museum building in a comprehensive and meaningful way. The law also regulates the way in which museum works, organisations, competencies, the work of museums in the Republic of Serbia and other issues of importance for the performance of museum work. I come from Shida, a town which is proud of its Sava Šumanović, its Ilija Bosil, the people and the legions who left us Percid Šumanović and Ilija Bosilj himself in an amannet to take care of them and to keep them for generations that come after us. Local self-government, no matter how small budgets they have, do not experience their museums as a burden, the burden of funding, but they would certainly welcome the help of rural and republican budgets, which we have so far, museum houses with their professional support that the works of art, entrusted to us, would be properly processed, preserved and presented. I can't help but mention those who took care of museums in their time, cultural goods, heritage in our city. Professional training and schooling were directed by porters, not curators. They destroyed the homes of culture and music schools to build, so they didn't build anything. In fact, they probably built something in their own direction out of these stolen couples, and today they're advertised as the biggest mentalists and they want to prevent the kidnapping of the Sava Šumanovic photo gallery by the SNS that only happens in their head. Dearly beloved SSPs the money your boss has on accounts in various banks around the white world and at least five budgets of the Shid municipality from which not only culture is financed, but education and everything we invest in our city. We today, as a municipality of the third category of development, are trying to put things in place, provide better conditions for everyone, especially culture, of course with your help and help from your ministry, Mrs Gojkovic. Our heritage preserved for future generations is a testimony to the existence of peoples and states and is an essential condition for understanding the past and creating the future of the country. Collections of old and rare books are the foundation of all the historical values of a nation's civilization and it is therefore a duty to collect, permanently fill and preserve. Legal regulations lay down standards for the organisation, recording, use and preservation of collections of old and rare books. Almost every library in Serbia provides an organized collection of old and rare books and other library buildings in a smaller or larger volume, and this represents invaluable cultural treasures. The city from which I come is proud of the National Library "Simeon Piščević", founded on the foundations of the first Serbian reading room in 1849. The testimony supports, just a book dedicated to Obradović's Dosite Bukvica printed in Vienna in 1830. Today, this library has a 170-year tradition. It is located in a dedicated building, in the system of the modern library of the Republic of Serbia, and proudly bears the name "Simeon Pištic" of the born Šidjan, author of the famous memoirs and manuscripts of the history of the Serbian people, which was first translated and published in the publication of our library after 223 years. She would commend the work and enthusiasm of our Librarians, who, in addition to their home libraries, also deal with the organization, arrangement and digitization of monastery libraries that hide invaluable treasures. Peoples without past, history, cultures are nations without future, and we fight for the future, for the future of our children, to know who we are. That is why I will support the bill and decisions for our children in the voting day together with my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4838	Thank you. The next MP, Bratislav Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4839	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, by adopting this law and by proposing this law for the hundredth time since 2012, we are proving here that we love this country by good education, by investing in the field of culture, education. Speaking of culture, I wasn't lazy, so I did a survey of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the area of Šumadija and Western Serbia. I have surveyed 240 citizens and I have asked them the following question – which of these terms is the closest concept of culture? Under 1. – the concept of citizens, below 2. – Serbia's credentials, below 3. – elite, below 4. - sandwichers. Of 63% of those surveyed, the term – citizens, the closest concept of culture – for Serbia – 0%, for elite – 37% and for sandwichers – is 0%. I asked the following question – who, in your opinion, made a bigger contribution in the area of culture? The government that is personified by Aleksandar Vukic, former regime of Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic and Bojan Pajtic? That's the one who voted from Bodrum. Very politely, very culturally and as we would say, it is fitting for a professor of the university to vote in the Assembly from Bodrum. And so, below 3. – The government of Vojislav Kostunica in 2004 until 2007. The citizens said the following way – 78% said that the government that was personified by Aleksandar Vukic made the biggest contribution in the field of culture, only 9% voted for Gilas and 13% voted for him, while 13% of the citizens surveyed for the government of Vojislav Kostunica. We come to the next conclusion – we are not Serbia's credentials and we are not sandwichers, we are followers of Alexander Vukic's policy and we are decent citizens of the Republic of Serbia. By investing in the field of culture, we prove for the hundredth time, from 2012 to today, that we are decent citizens of Serbia and the assessment gives us the same citizens of Serbia at polling stations and each time gives us a higher score than in previous elections. Speaking of citizens, for Gilas and his click, he is a citizen who owns an elite location with at least two digits of real estate. So, an rude citizen, an impolitely wealthy citizen, it's for Gilas's click of citizens, and for us citizens are decent people who love their country. And on the third question, which I asked, I asked the people of Shumadia, from western Serbia -- New Now is the city of Vienna? The city of Vojvodina? City of culture? Convincingly at the highest percentage, they told me it was a city of culture. And I will remind the public that the current culture minister in Novi Sad is in direct elections, so the citizens of Novi Sad are right when it was by law, when the law existed, and that electoral system, therefore, the citizens of Novi Sad elected her mayor, or mayor. That is why we should be pleased that she is today a culture minister and I congratulate her on the results achieved in such a small number of months. I expect you to continue at this pace, and I will remind you that this assembly majority will advocate that there are not only a few sentences in the history textbook on Serb death in Jasenovac, but several sides. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4840	Thank you. Next reported, counterpart Milica Dacic, but before you, Minister Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4841	I thank you for your speech, not to turn out because you praised me, but because you were telling the truth about how much the Government of the Republic of Serbia has come to power from the citizens, of course in our country, how much it has paid attention and put culture as one of the most important national priorities. This should be talked about as often as possible because we often think that we are silent, we suffer blows and insults, and we think that someone else will stop doing it just because we are valuable and diligent and most Serbian citizens recognize it in us. I'm not surprised that these personal research of yours has shown so much trust from Serbian citizens in the part of Serbia that you live in and that they know exactly how much we invest in the segment of culture. When something good is done, it's the manner of that part of our society that only criticizes something. He's critical, he doesn't have the strength to praise something for once. If they were full of praise, maybe the citizens of Serbia could trust them more than two, three percent as much as they have on the political market today. I expected them to, say, notice and say how good it is that at this difficult time when the pandemic is ruling, when we are all isolated, when the whole world has a problem with the economy of their countries not only with the health and survival of the health system, that in such a year we have brought the biggest budget in Serbia's recent history to a total of 0.77%, together with the information area of 1.10% of our country's total budget, and that's a huge leap since last year, early 2020, when we had 0.77% or 0.78%. Everyone knows that, and then they don't have the courage to say, let's say, it's one of the most remarkable things that has made it possible for the state to increase this year's exceptional amount of funds that will be allocated to cities in focus, perhaps one of the most important competitions that the Ministry of Culture has called, which enables local self-government, cities, municipalities, larger and smaller in our country to participate in this competition with different projects and thus build or improve cultural infrastructure in their cities. That's why I was in Kniæ to see their beautiful House of Culture and to determine how much more money they need to finish. It's a small place, but it's a small place that gravitates 31 or 33 villages, as far as people who live mean they have a beautiful House of Culture where there's a library, a little theater, a movie theater, and there's a chance of living in such a small place. Then I went to Alexandrovac, so I went to Paracino to see what a fantastic idea it was, to build a factory circle of one of their warehouses, a glass museum, and how much modern trends follow, which is the fact that UNESCO has determined next year for a year of glass, on a global level, and how this idea and the construction of that museum will fit into these modern tendencies. For all these ideas, there will be enough money this year and I enjoy that in every place, every city in Serbia will have its own cultural oasis, where talented people from all over our country will be able to work or exchange ideas and have colleagues from larger cities like Belgrade and Novi Sad, as already proven capitals of culture, which, behold, have the privilege of being big, to invest a lot in these cities. In a recent meeting, when we discussed some projects, which are entering that loan category of 20m euros from the SE Development Bank, you recently ratified the agreement, the president noted that there is much planned to do in Belgrade. Absolutely, I share his idea that money, first of all, is directed to cities and places, which are not the capital. This will achieve a great deal, so that we will define ourselves to build a small scene of the Niš theatre and for many other projects, of course, it is important that local self-governments are ready, they must have documentation immediately, because only for such projects and loans can we take. We shouldn't forget. We have to keep repeating, for 15 years two of the largest museums in our country, the National Museum, have been closed. So, the National Museum, which according to this law, is a central museum facility. Calculate how many generations in this country grew up without being able to go to the National Museum of a State. What country did that exist in? That's what the regime in which the icons of democracy were, as they call themselves, Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, and remind me not to forget someone, not to turn out to be unfairly left out, my fellow citizen Bojan Pajtic and many others and all those who were in the shadows and for them, because they have to take the biggest hits because they were the main leaders. There were so many people behind them who were criticizing us today, and you don't even know that they were all small or slightly larger bolts in that government, there were a lot of them in the area of culture. Today when they say something, I'm just asking, here's Professor Atlagic's expert in analyzing and finding these articles, please see how many times they've called and protested that two museums have been closed for 15 years. So I'm not looking for some big research, in 15 years what we find, let's see, just the ones who are talking about us right now, that one of them was protesting, that the National Museum was closed, that he was having such an affair, because of various public procurements and they couldn't work without saying, the Museum of Contemporary Art. Many of them, most of our critics turned to modern creation and to see how much it bothered them and when they went out on the streets and protested, yelled at the culture minister, came to public debates to spoil the public debate. If you saw something like that, then you'd take them much more seriously, then they'd be constant fighters for democracy, and not when I like someone politically, then I'd be silent, no matter what national tragedy they make, and I think closing the museums is a national tragedy. National tragedies are the closure of museums, theaters. Now we can be proud, that we are one of the few countries in the world that has decided to open galleries, cinemas, open theatres, allow even in a pandemic era, that cultural institutions work and that at least that's where Serbian citizens can find an oasis of salvation and enjoy these difficult times. We need to stress, Serbia's History Museum, to see who criticized and who was complaining, that Serbia's History Museum never had its own building. Watch out, the historic museum of Serbia. Recently, a decision has been made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Historical Museum of Serbia gets its own building, in the old building of the Railway Station on the beautiful Sava Square, and not to say that we are still planning large projects, I hope that we will finish them, and if not, we will leave them to someone else to finish, but let's say, moving the "Nikole Tesla" Museum to one big space that is huge, 6,800 square meters, which should be considered, thought out, to open competitions for architectural solutions, to respect all opinions and choose what is best, but constantly one big sign of questions, why they did not, when they care so much about culture, why they didn't criticise those who today criticise President Alexander Vukic, criticise the work of the Republic of Serbia, whenever we want to do something. Whenever we have an idea, whenever we want to change something, they're there to criticize and that's good, if it's well-meaning criticism and if it's a criticism to do something better. Every day I follow everyone and anyone who says anything in the area that I cover as a minister or as a vice president of the government and I try to ask myself why someone criticises this or that and if there's anything that can be done. I don't believe it was done that way in their day, I don't think Branislav Lecic was interested in anyone's criticism, if it was at all, which changed the entire system of protection of monuments in our country, by one fax. I didn't see that. I think I'm the real person who said that in public today, that it was a mess in 2002, with a simple college. I've never heard anyone criticize. I've never heard of anyone criticising Minister Koadinovic for this contract disaster. You know what 1.8m euros is without interest. The interest needs to be calculated. This government had to pay for what it had left for us in the amannet. Since no one has thought of it, there are so many of these lawyers and lawyers who every day say on television what we should do, what we are missing, what we should have not have told them well-meaningly, they are also members of their parties in their leaderships, to say – which you do not break that contract. This could have been broken up in 2005 or 2004, as soon as it was seen that deposits, valuable images in the mud could not be held. Not to say if anyone has ever mentioned anything to them, that we don't have buildings, that the "Nikola Tesla" Museum is in such a small space, and Nikola Tesla is a brand of Serbia to which we should be proud. It should be said when one says "Serbia" that one of their first associations is Nikola Tesla. To know how many thousands and thousands, tens of thousands of annually foreigners came to see the works and exhibits at the "Nikola Tesla" Museum and they didn't care. Everything was great for them just to have those in their unmoved clans rule the world of culture, and in the criticisms there are good ones, but to say something about what it was when their ministers were, they were putting actors, and here they put Voj Brajevic, our respected actor, but I don't see a concrete result when he was a minister. What did he do? If he didn't spoil anything, thank him, but he did something concrete to move forward he didn't, and he could have dealt with the law at the theater. We don't have a theater law. Something they did, and then the criticism is important, just because they're sitting across from them the political option, the political party, the SNS, they're commenting on those times when they're in power, when people, like that in that attack on October 5, 2000, come from the general despair of everything we've been through, they believe them, and they laminate over that past, thinking they'll ever come back to power, they don't have the trust of the citizens, and on the other hand they don't have the strength. It's only big people have it, sometimes to praise what this country has done and what this government has done, what President Alexander Vukic has done, and then everyone would believe them very much. A lot more believe. This way, in another life when we're gone, someone might believe them, but there won't be any more of them, and there will be a concrete idea behind us. The theatres will remain, museums will remain, the Paracino Glass Museum will remain, the cultural homes will remain, these good laws will remain, and we will remain remembered in history that we have essentially changed Serbia for the better and that we have reformed it and that we have modernised it in one real way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4842	Thank you. I am informing the MPs that from a few moments ago we are no longer in direct transmission. The word is "Milica Dacic." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4843	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, respected Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, today we are talking about two important acts in the field of culture on museum activity, namely the protection of mobile cultural goods, museum buildings and immaterial cultural heritage, which is of general interest to the Republic of Serbia. We also have before us a proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being of exceptional importance to which 720 old and rare manuscripts and printed books created from the 15th to the 19th centuries in Serbian will receive special protection if we adopt this decision. Cultural heritage and even cultural heritage, whether mobile, were one of the important drivers of economic growth and an essential condition for understanding the past and present of a country. When we talk about this, we certainly influence the development of consciousness about the importance of preserving museum buildings as mobile, cultural goods for our future generations. Somewhere in the part of the reasoning of this legislative act, it is said that the lack of space for the accommodation of cultural goods among the leading problems directly affecting their protection, and I think it is necessary to remind that in the previous period, we have adopted an agreement on the financing of infrastructure in culture, where besides other cultural institutions and several museums will be restored. I am pleased that you are now explaining that several museums in the interior of Serbia will be found on the list next to the Belgrade Museum. This act also defines the National Museum as a central institution for the protection of the museum building, which will be run by the Central Register and registers of mobile cultural goods of exceptional and special importance in the Republic of Serbia. I don't think it is necessary to remind our citizens that the core reconstruction of the National Museum started only in 2014, so the year when the prime minister became Alexander Vukic and ended on Vidovdan 2018. Thus, the Serbian Progressive Party's attitude towards culture is not in any way to put under the rug and marginalise this extremely important social area, but rather to look at the same and solve problems in it. You can see that on both central and local level. In particular, in the last four and a half years, it has been done in the field of culture, starting with the most valuable investment in the construction of the City Library "Vladslav Petković Dis" through the renovation of the Risim Gallery, investment in the art gallery "Nadežda Petrovic", the opening of the City Theatre "Cacak", i.e. the establishment of this institution and the beginning of the conversion of Roman termes, which we are working with the Ministry of Culture and Information. You could see for yourself on your last visit to Chačka. I must point out this opportunity that we Cacans are really proud of Nadezda Petrovic, and of Rastko Petrovic and Vladislav Petkovic Dis, Bora Djordjevic and many others, but there are also those of our fellow citizens that we are not very proud of, such as Bosko Obradovic. We all remember everything he did here in parliament, sort of muddling all of us Chacans. Be assured that all of us Chacans condemned such behaviour, and the biggest conviction, is certainly won in the elections, given the percentages given by the citizens of Cačka to the victory of the Serbian Progressive parties both in Cačka and across Serbia. When we talk about cultural goods that enrich the tourist offer, I am extremely proud that our country, President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has decided to invest large funds in the Ovčar-Cablar ravine, which is not only a pearl of nature, but also a place of great cultural historical value. At the end of the year, all those travelling on the highway "Milos Velika" from Cačka to Požega will be able to stop by Ovcar Banj and Medvršje and see what was done there in a very short time. Large infrastructure projects are planned as part of the "Serbia 2025" project. Dear Mrs Gojkovic, in a very short time of your term of office, there is a serious act before us, which is overcoming in a detailed way the outdated legislative framework in the area of culture. I am sure that the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and yours is to arrange this area to the end by strengthening the institutions of culture. With that I wish you good associates and good circumstances in this process. I know that you have the will, the commitment and the knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4844	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4845	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I appreciate the restoration of all museums, I appreciate everything, but what I think Serbia is missing is a museum of heroes, a museum of the creators of the state or of the state. The museum should have two parts, one to show heroes and evidence of the creation of a great state through the Balkan wars, through World War I, and the other to be a museum of those who have split up or to call it the Museum of Victims of Communism. Of course these are the first, and this is Dragutin Matic. This is the creator of the country through the Balkan wars, the First World War, seven years of war, nine years of war, nine years of military service. We've barely thought of the last few years, thanks to the changes, to rebuild his house in Gage Han, and to be some access road to this hero's house, which when he came back, he didn't get any fighting pensions. (Alexander Martinovic: No villa on Dedinj. He didn't get a villa on Santa in particular. I'll talk about the Décts' fighters, too. This is a Serbian hero, as is Draža Mihajlovic, as are many officers who tried to preserve what was in the Second World War in the blood, the great state, what was paid by the blood of 1,250,000 Serbs to create a large state that, in my opinion, was wrong. On the one hand, the winners joined together, on the other hand defeated by all the acts they wore while shooting at the Serb army. This is what has torn the great state apart and the rule of six small states, what we call a second-rate and third-rate protectorates today. It certainly must be this photograph in the museum of the victims of communism, of those who broke up and split up the state that I said how much blood was poured out to create it. This is Joseph Broz. This is what we have recognized as our leader as an enemy soldier. From one great state, these made six small ones. These are the ones that made a big one. These are Serbian heroes, these are strikers, and these are the ones who broke up and split up. From Milan Gorkic, who I don't even know if he was a Serb, until the last generation of communists, those wandering hearts, have kept filling the Dresden conclusions, she's the wandering hearts of Kucan, Racan, Tudjman, I'm going to list this unfortunate one, Gligorov, Mesic, Milosevic. They were all members of this enemy soldier whom we Serbs recognized as their leader. He was also thrown out by his Croats. This one has a museum of memories of him. There are still some Serbs crying for him. That's why we need these museums. This is the hero whose house we've been nagging for a few years now and we've built a little road. Now, that's what Churchill said that whoever doesn't look back in the past, especially that part of the uglier, is doomed to have it repeated. The last wars were an attempt to repeat that history to us. One nation was created, and the other was broken. The state's conclusions were that in a large country, which I think was also needed as a democratic, as a market economy, etc. to build a national state on it and on its territory. Everything they wrote in Dresden generations of those who broke up the state seemed to meet the conclusions. Milan Gorkic invites the communists to support the uprising of local and Dalmatian Ustashas for 30 years and some years and criticises why they do not do so, defends Artukovic. They're the ones who broke up. The Serbian people, who created a great state selflessly, who made a mistake because they joined the defeated, have the right to remember and, in my opinion, that kind of museum should be built. In this part of the Dedicated Fighters, victims should be shown to the end, all with "Bleek", "Storm" and other military actions, which happened because they planned to break Yugoslavia. They were the first to defend not only the state, but also to defend democracy and the market economy. I ask you, where would Serbia be now and this great state if they had managed to preserve what Stalin and Churchill agreed not to preserve themselves? Today, the country or Serbia or the great Yugoslavia, if they had succeeded in World War II, would surely have been an EU country. It would certainly be among the first five countries economically developed, but unfortunately, these others won because they were supported by foreign forces and had an interest that Serbia does not have a large country in the Balkans, to be far smaller at present, but Serbia remains valuable. In the end, I will say, that I would not owe these people and all those who belong to this work, which we create and raise the state, we build and further the state in the way our glorious ancestors did. It's more important to build a country than to rule it. We're a little in control. The various NGOs, the various third branch of the court, the fourth branch of the government, as they call it, share power with us. It shares because it is not important for us to rule Serbia, but to build it, that it be, although it is small now, valuablely large. That's why all fighters, like these, need to understand that humans are mortal, people die, but the glory of freedom fighters never dies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4846	Thank you. The word is Olja Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4847	Thank you. Dear Vice-President Mr Orlic, the distinguished minister with co-worker, distinguished ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are present today two draft laws - a proposal for a law on museum activity and a proposal for a decision to declare the old and rare library building for the cultural well-being of exceptional importance, which is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture and Information, whose work I would like to begin by commending. Your efforts and efforts are, uh, well-respected and well-observed. The proposal for a law on museum work today is of paramount importance, as it will create a framework for ensuring full protection and preservation of museum construction as mobile cultural goods in a unique way. By establishing this matter, the law will also affect the development of awareness of the importance of preserving the museum building and our heritage for future generations, but it will contribute to raising awareness that the most important items of material and elements of the immaterial cultural heritage must be protected from destruction. This law represents the necessary solution for comprehensive regulation of the system of protection of movable cultural goods, museum objects, as well as the establishment of an organisation system and functioning of museum work, given the problems that museums face daily. This creates a framework for the Republic of Serbia to regulate the museum's work and protection of museum buildings, especially given the importance of these institutions and cultural heritage not only for history, science and culture, but also for meeting the needs of citizens. The importance of museum construction as a cultural heritage and a range of movable cultural goods is one of the essential elements of the drivers of economic growth, tourist offer, one country and the essential conditions for understanding the past and future of the people, and only the legal framework can set and regulate the museum's performance by defining, but also by harmonising it with internationally accepted documents and professional standards. The law prescribes the preservation of museum work through research, detection, collection, documentation, action of protection measures, prevention of harmful influences and the provision of appropriate conditions for the preservation, study, evaluation, representation, interpretation and education of the public. The organisation of the structure of museum work and the organisation of the work of these institutions, but also the definition of a unique information system for museums and museum documentation in the Republic of Serbia, which will contribute to more efficient conservation, use and presentation of the museum building. I also believe that the proposed 720 books already represent cultural goods because of their special importance for our science and culture, as well as because they are rare, unique specimens and should receive the greatest categorization in terms of protection, i.e. to be declared cultural goods of exceptional importance. I consider this categorization justified because, when setting the proposal, special criteria were taken into account by the National Library of Serbia, which is: the time of the creation of manuscripts, i.e. the year of printing the book, type of book, rareness, i.e. the importance of studying history, literature, rights, culture, language, literacy, ornamentics, paleography, iconography, as well as the fifth criterion – the letter and language in which each book became an investment in culture is of exceptional importance, which was laid down several years ago and before the crisis and Alexander Vukic set as one of the priorities. The state managed to provide the funds that ended the temple of St. Sava, as well as to build a magnificent monument to Stefan Nemanja, which we are all extremely proud of. In addition, the Museum of Contemporary Art was renovated in the previous period. The building has been completely renovated and new technology has been introduced and is now the most modern and technologically advanced museum facility in our country. After 15 years, the National Museum in Belgrade was reopened in 2018, when it was renovated. In the past few years, it has also been invested in objects of culture in Pirot, the city where I come from. The museum of Ponyšavlje, the pyrotic fortress of Kale, will soon be reconstructed and a multi-functional facility known as the House of the Army and we almost talked about it in this high house. It's an object located in the center of town. That's what I want to thank you for, because the people of Pirot and how pleased they are with this upcoming investment in our city. By July of this year, an idea project for the reconstruction of the facility, so-called "the building" should be completed. A white cat who's about to become a museum of cymbalism. Also, at the competition of the Ministry of Culture and Information in the field of digitalisation of cultural heritage in 2021, the National Library of Pirote was granted funding of 500,000 dinars for the purchase of new and valuable digitisation equipment. Your assistance and the assistance of the state, your Honored Minister, is of paramount importance to us and I believe that good co-operation in the coming period and that we will continue and advance, if possible. All of this will also contribute to the preservation of cultural heritage, but it will also have a positive impact on the development of tourism, and we know that in 2019 it was a record and that for the first time we have exceeded the number of foreign tourists in our country. I am sure that this trend will continue and that after this pandemic we will become a serious tourist force, and that will certainly contribute to all the investments in the culture that are being implemented. Serbia has changed irrevocably, we have gone ahead irrevocably. Serbia will arrive next year for the first time at an absolute amount, at the rate of the BPD, and in December we are past Montenegro for the first time. Serbia is today the first in the world and for the availability of vaccines, but also for the number of vaccines. We know that there are currently four different types of vaccine available to our citizens. Besides, we continued to build roads, hospitals. In addition to the reconstruction of hospitals throughout Serbia, including the reconstruction of the General Hospital in Pirote, where the first phase is under way, we are going to the third Kovid hospital, at the announcement of the president himself. We continued to create new jobs, bring investors and despite the crisis that hit us, the unemployment rate in Serbia continued to decline. The state has provided a series of assistance and symbolic assistance to our oldest citizens, so by July 5th this year, all pensioners will receive assistance in the form of vitamins C, D and zinc, which will be enough for them in two months to increase immunity. This way I appeal again to all citizens to be vaccinated, because it's the only way we can deal with this pandemic. In the voting day together with the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – we will support the proposed laws for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4848	Thank you. The word is Vesna Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4849	Thank you, Chairman. We recently adopted a 20m-euro loan agreement here in the Serbian Parliament aimed at investing in cultural infrastructure, i.e. for reconstruction, the construction of cultural institutions. This project also envisions the restoration and expansion of museums, the construction of new ones, as most museums are mostly located in historic and protected buildings, which is why it is important to preserve their architectural and historical value. All that I have mentioned is certainly one part of the Culture Development Strategy from 2020 to 2029, which provides for a balanced development of culture throughout Serbia's territory, i.e. the availability of cultural content for all citizens, regardless of where they live. In this sense, it is extremely important to pass the law that I am talking about today, which is the Museum's Labour Act, which provides for full protection and preservation of the museum building. In addition, we increased the significant separation from the culture budget, then, as I said, we invest in the reconstruction of old and construction of new museums, then digitise cultural centres throughout Serbia, we opened the National Museum, after 15 years of reconstruction, in 2018, the Museum of Contemporary Art, after 10 years of reconstruction in 2017, and colleagues today mentioned numerous examples of construction and reconstruction of cultural institutions throughout Serbia. It is perfectly logical that we are passing the Law of Museum Activity, because this area really requires far more precise solutions than was foreseen by the Cultural Goods Act within which this area has been so far, because we are talking about 149 museums. The cultural wealth of our country testifies to the numerous civilizations that have changed in these areas, and it begins with the Lepenic source, which represents the world's significant 9,000-year-old locality, then the Vinchan culture that was one of the world's most technologically advanced prehistoric cultures, then through the Viminations, the Sirmium which in the third century was one of the four capitals of the Roman Empire. The National Museum also preserves the Gospel of Miroslav, one of the most important Cyrillic monuments of the 12th century Serbian-Slovenian literacy. The National Museum also houses medieval icons, frescoes, and works by Paja Jovanovic, Nadežda Petrovic, Sava Šumanović and many others, not only domestic, but also foreign famous artists. I mention all of this because I want to point out the importance of investment in museums, right because of the preservation of museum construction. They are important to culture, to science, to education, to preserve our cultural heritage, but also to the heritage of all the peoples who lived and who live in these areas. Serbia, as a rare country, can boast of the truly great diversity of cultural wealth, a large number of different cultures that have been intertwined in this area for centuries. I am proud of living together with other peoples, and having the opportunity to preserve their language, their culture, their identity and thus give a unique cultural seal to this space and, of course, to our common state. Of course, when we all go to another country, if we want to get to know the people who live here better, museums are the first thing we visit, because they're just telling us about the history of this place, they're also telling us about modern creation. So, of course, museums and cultural monuments are included in the tourist offer of every place in the world. This is one really serious matter that requires a system order, and I think that this law is very important, that we will be able to do so in such a way that I will be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4850	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4851	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Gojkovic, with co-worker, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is under discussion today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's plenary session, a debate on the area of culture is under way. In this joint, principled and unique search, we are talking about two topics today, the first proposal for a law on museum activity and the second - a proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being of exceptional importance. Minister Gojkovic, you have shown that you are a great fighter now in the executive power, just as you were in the legislative authority. As you said yesterday at the pandemic Academy of Marking 160 years after the founding of the Serbian National Theatre, I will quote you – the situation with the pandemic is not the first example that shows that culture may be more necessary and effective in difficult times. We are aware that the environment in which we live is faster and sometimes in pursuit of certain business goals, let us forget about what is really important. By passing this law, we show that the government of the Republic of Serbia in one serious and responsible way of accessing culture, because it is important for both the survival and survival of Serbia. You said at the beginning of today that we don't even know what kind of treasures we have in the museums in Serbia. What's very important and good is that you're one of the first activities you've carried out was that you gave the museums a warrant to carry out the list and deliver the reports to you. In a relatively short period as you run the ministry, you have shown that you are a serious minister and have shown that you have achieved certain results. Personally, I think it is because it is not a problem for you to go around Serbia to visit Serbia and thus you have shown that you are one proactive minister who is here and for the MPs because at our meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, you have come personally with your associates and we have had opportunities to ask you questions that you have answered. The passing of this law is of paramount importance to the Republic of Serbia, because the regulation of this issue, I can say freely, is of first-rate national importance. I will remind one of the five principles of SNS, which highlights the orientation of Serbian society and politics towards the future, but with the awareness of the past, culture, tradition and Serbian identity. We here approach the system arrangement of each individual area, the protection of cultural goods and create a framework for the Republic of Serbia to organise the museum's work and protection of museum buildings in a comprehensive way, because we understand the importance of cultural heritage, not only for history and culture, but also for science. I would especially like to commend the legislator for the fact that this law was also at a public debate, where we as MPs, members of the Committee on Culture and Information had the opportunity to attend, but on the other hand, to ask questions. It is very important that some of our suggestions, advice, and suggestions are accepted. The adoption of the law on museum activity is a condition for systemic access to the regulation of the area of protection of movable cultural goods. It's a good thing there's a possibility, as you yourself said, that in the next six months, sublegal acts, some other areas are being ordered, and that certain provisions of the law are being improved. Of course, in the voting day, I will also support this bill, as well as the draft decision. The second topic is a natural motion for a decision. This is a proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural good and the National Library of Serbia, your ministry, submitted a list of 720 old and rare goods to the competent ministry. In this proposal, it should be declared a cultural good of exceptional importance, which is the greatest protection in terms of categorisation. It was taken into account both the general criteria and the conditions for declaring cultural goods of exceptional importance, as well as the special criteria that the National Library of Serbia has set out on its own. In order to better understand the importance of declaring this ancient and rare library building for cultural well-being, it is important to note that there are some books from the 14th century Hilandar, certain prayer books and other books of 15. 16. The 17th and 18th centuries. Our youngest book is from the 18th century, I think, in 1870. With great pride, I would like to point out that the largest private museum in this part of Europe is located right on Vozdovac. It's the Adligat Museum. The leader is the city municipality where I live and where I come from and there are over two million copies of different books, and I am glad that one of the previous speakers in his presentation and mentioned Adligat because it further means that it is a very important cultural institution. Personally, as someone who comes from Vozdovec, it means a great deal to me that in Adligate there is Napoleon's charter with the original Napoleon signature of the 1807th year because Napoleon Karadjorgia considered himself the best military leader in the world, and Voždovac, the city municipality from which I come, bears the name just after the leader of Karadjordz. Despite the signed charter of Louis the fourteenth, the furniture of Obrenovic, the letters of King Milan, the correspondence of Sava Šumanović, Milos Crnjanski, Mike Alas, numerous legates and extremely rare books and objects from 180 countries in the world, there are also Tesla's letters on Cyrillic, and they say Tesla took care of Pupin's health and this has some other connotation because of some stories that say that the two were not exactly in good relations. Besides the Adligate in Serbia, of course, there are other important private museums and institutions that preserve the culture and tradition of the Republic of Serbia, but it is up to us to fight to preserve our traditional values everywhere our people live. If we are talking about Montenegro, we cannot without pointing out and I will quote it – that the Serbian people of Montenegro are deeply grateful to President Aleksandar Vukic that the Serbian House in Podgorica is established by the decision of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, as it is, of course, written on the board at the entrance to the Serbian House. During a visit to this roof institution of Serbian science, culture, art and information, Aleksandar Vukic announced in November last year that a donation of books to the Serbian house will be provided and now with great pride here in front of all of us and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to say that with the great help of the aforementioned Adligat Museum, we have managed to provide more than a thousand books for the Serbian House in Montenegro. The donation is already ready and it is a gift from all of us as citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This morning, I also spoke with Mr. Jokic from the Serbian House, and the rest is to agree only on an operational basis to see how we will deliver these books or they will take over. As President Aleksandar Vucic and I, as representatives of SNS, show that we stick to what we talked about, what we announced, and that is why we are the leader of the region. To the very end, this way I would like to say that in this and other things, and not only in words, we are telling the Serbian people wherever he lives, the Republic of Serbia has lived with you and Serbia has lived.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4852	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Rankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4853	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister with an associate, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and People's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as you have heard from my predecessors, but it is not a shame to repeat, today we have before us a proposal for a law on museum activity and a proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building. What I want to point out is that I come from the sphere of culture here to the National Assembly and that that's why I have a special need to speak today about this bill and the motion for a decision, and I also have a special honor to speak to the minister present here in front of a resolute culture ministry. When it comes to the proposal for a law on museum work, what I would single out is that it provides for museums to be divided into public and private. It is also very important to point out that the museum's records, which will be run by the resolution ministry, are scheduled to be kept. Also, museums that are listed in museum records form a network of museums. The National Museum of Serbia is scheduled for a central museum building protection facility, which is very important to point out. It is also important to point out that the resources necessary for the work of the museum are the founder, while the supervision of the work on museums is carried out by the resolution ministry, i.e. when it comes to autonomous provinces, an autonomous province, a pardon, a competent facility in the autonomous province that is in charge of monitoring the work and has it as a trusted job. What I also want to point out is that when it comes to the proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural goods of exceptional importance, the Ministry of Culture and Information received a 720-title proposal from the National Library of Serbia, i.e. 720 books placed in old and rare books. We also had a chance to hear some of those headlines today. I also had a desire to set some aside, but I won't do it so I won't repeat myself and I won't take the time. What is also important to point out is that it is a long-standing and hard work done by experts outside the National Library of Serbia, as well as other scientific and cultural institutions. The manuscripts are mostly from a period dating between the 15th and the 19th centuries. The Cultural Goods Act predicts that the old and rare book is actually a moving cultural good and for this reason all 720 books on this already mentioned list are classified as cultural goods. It is predicted that all old and rare books get the status of cultural goods of exceptional importance from this list. What I wanted to point out further and what I wanted to talk about in more detail, but my predecessor, Mircetic, also paid great attention to it, so I will not owe it to that topic, is the Serbian House in Podgorica, Montenegro. It is another proof that the policy led by our President Aleksandar Vukic, our Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, as well as our current culture minister, here present Maja Gojkovic, aims to preserve the identity of the Serb people, especially the cultural identity of the Serb people, because culture is what brings together a certain people and aims to preserve that identity within our country's borders and beyond our country's borders. The Serbian house was established by the decision of our President Aleksandr Vukic and it is actually an institution that unites art, which unites culture and science in one place, which, on the other hand, represents the cultural, artistic and scientific identity of Serbs in Montenegro. What I still want to remind you is that at the beginning of this month we adopted the Framework Agreement on the Loan concluded between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, which refers to the Project Loan for Infrastructure in Culture. The agreement provides for the restoration of certain cultural facilities where there are a number of museums on the list, that is, in the programme. It is important to point out that other than the cultural objects located in Belgrade, there are a lot of cultural objects that are outside Belgrade, which is another indicator that SNS policy comes down to decentralisation and that we want to represent the interests of all citizens equally, whether they live in our capital or not. It is important to point out that during the previous period we have fought for the restoration of cultural objects, including museums, which are originally mentioned today. Among other things, it is the National Museum in Belgrade, the Museum of Contemporary Art, the Museum of Vuk and Dosite, the Museum of Science and Technology, the Museum of Yugoslavia, the Ethnographic Museum, etc., that I do not list them all, and we have had the opportunity to listen today. What I also want to point out is that I'm glad that we have a minister currently at the head of the Ministry of Culture and Information who, when creating the budget, was struggling with the soul, I mean the budget for this year, that simple culture gets a percentage more than the previous years, and I'm very glad that, I say, I come from the sphere of culture and I know what a problem it is to provide the resources for some of the most necessary things, and not to talk about those that are less necessary. I also believe that it is an extremely good solution to the management of this ministry, for the reason that she has been a woman who has been back for years, regardless of whether she was Parliament's president or earlier, not to list all of her functions, struggled to always be ruled by culture. While in parliament, she struggled that there was always a culture within parliament, though unfortunately she suffered numerous outbursts that could at least be called uncultural by the former opposition. What I'd still like to point out is that it's a really great honor and pleasure to have had the opportunity to speak to her today. Of course, in the voting day, as well as my colleagues in front of the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", I will also support the bill I spoke about and the motion for a decision I spoke about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4854	Thank you. National MP Vladica Maricic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4855	Thank you, National Assembly President. Dear Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have an important law on the agenda – the Museum's Labour Act. This area was previously regulated by the 1994 Cultural Goods Act, which, despite being a termologically outdated because it was written in another time, is one general law that, apart from museumology, included both archivistics and cinematography and immovable cultural goods. At the beginning of 2020, a special Law on Archival Construction and Archival Activity was passed, which was set aside from the Law on Cultural Goods, and today we set out by this law when it was adopted and when it started to apply, we also single out museumology from the 1994 Cultural Goods Act. It is those who have been following the work of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 2012, and especially since 2014, who have seen that tendency that the SNS wants certain areas of society to define comprehensive and meaningful integrated laws. That's what the profession expects of us, the citizens of Serbia expect, and just the solutions of this law have been written by the profession, so that anyone who would break this law would not actually be affected by politics, but rather a semi-monet with the profession. His solutions are modern and his solutions are the same or similar to those in most countries of Europe, where the Serbian cultural heritage, the Serbian historical heritage, truly belongs. We have 149 museums in Serbia today. It's a smaller number than we have a local self-government unit in Serbia, about 170 of them. Of course, we don't have every unit of the local self-government museum. In Belgrade, we have a number of museums, but what a large number of museums face is a lack of funds to perform and some of their basic musical activities, as they are on the budgets of local self-government units. This law introduces order into the museum system in Serbia. The line on which the top will be a central facility. It will be the National Museum in Belgrade, which will titled "The National Museum of Serbia". We all remember that the National Museum in Belgrade was returned to the citizens of Serbia, returned to all visitors to Belgrade on Vidovdan 2018, exactly 15 years after DOS authorities closed it down, pushed it into the dark, under parole - reconstruction, so that it never sees the light of day again. In 2014, when he became Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic started again, or almost, and nothing had been done before, he launched a reconstruction of the National Museum in Belgrade and it was opened as I said on Vidovdan 2018. After the Central Institution is followed by 11 parent museums, parent institutions. I would especially single out the Natural History Museum. We know a few months ago in the media near Dragan Gilas was campaigning to shut down the Natural History Museum. Of course we do not want to abolish it, we are putting it in order of the natural heritage museums of the Republic of Serbia, and after the parent museums, the museums in territorial centres follow. These are mostly museums in the centres of administrative districts in Serbia. All these museums and the Central Institute and the Mother Museums and Museums in Territorial Centres will be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP budget and the budget of units of local self-government. Also, to protect the public-owned museum building, ownership of the Republic of Serbia is provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and those museum buildings, which are private property, this law imposes an obligation on owners, or holders, to take adequate care of the museum building. This law introduces and digitises our museum building and introduces a unique information system of museums in Serbia, thus making it available via the Internet, available to foreigners, available to our people, available to researchers and scientists. As Nischli, I would also like to state that the city of Nishu is about to be built by the National Museum. The building in which the National Museum is currently located, i.e. its administration, depot and conservation in the restitution process, was returned to the right owners. The National Museum is now the tenant of that building. The Archeo Hall building, which many in Nis call the National Museum building incorrectly, is quite small and is exposed to everything, perhaps about 1% of the rich museum building owned by the National Museum in Nis. As a result, it was decided to build a new National Museum building at a representative location, in the strict center of the city, on Nisavska keje. The chosen location is Bishop Jerome's house. It's the first bishop to get rid of Nis from Turks and a great benefactor. His house is under a high level of protection and will be reconstructed, revitalised and upgraded on a neighboring salary, so that it will receive a representative museum facility of about 3,800 square meters that will contain both exhibition space and depot and conservation and management of the National Museum. He will be warmly communicating with an officer's home building on a neighboring plot with its central hall, which itself has about 1,000 squares of exhibition space. So these 1,000 square square meters of the officer's home will also be available for larger museum exhibitions. It is, of course, an expensive project of about 500 million dinars, for which the city will certainly need the help of the Republic, for which I, as a National MP from Nis, with you, the Honorable Minister, stand up for my fellow citizens. The project is in phase of an idea solution. In a public competition, the expert jury, who was also given authority by the National Museum in Belgrade, Mrs Bojana Boris Breskovic, chose an idea solution presented by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, on 8 June 2020 when she visited Nis when she opened the Scientific and Technology Park. We are being followed by the creation of an idea project of museums and later the construction project of museums. Because of the development of museum activity in Serbia, i.e. by raising awareness among our citizens about the importance of cultural historical treasures that our museums possess, but also because of the possibility of developing an economy in our country, i.e. economic growth, because museums represent significant tourist sites, i.e. places that tourists are happy to visit, I will be happy to vote for this law, if my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic - For our children. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4856	Thank you. The word has a national MP Rajka Matovic. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4857	I thank the chairman. I'll try to be brief, clear and concise, because we've heard a lot about the law. We have before us a bill on museum work and a decision on the declaration of 720 old and rare books for cultural goods of exceptional importance. This law defines museum activity and its compliance with internationally accepted documents and professional standards recognised in the Statute of the International Council for Museums. Given what we have today had the opportunity to hear in a very extensive debate, the adoption of this law in the museum's work is a condition of systemic access in the regulation of the area of protection of movable cultural goods. When we talk about museums, we can't look back on the fact that the National Museum has been closed for 15 years, that his door was closed in 2003 and that it was promised that the reconstruction of this museum would be completed in the next five years. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that all the previous governments that have made this project difficult, have viewed this project as a bank, because during these 15 years the governments, with them and ministers, and with them, have changed the reconstruction projects of the National Museum. Projects are often interrupted without any explanation or explanation, which have already been paid in advance. Anyone who came to Belgrade could see that 15-year-old sad scene in the centre of Belgrade. It simply brings me to the question of whether the predecessors in the former government might have viewed this location as an interesting venture, so they deliberately tightened the reconstruction of the National Museum for 15 years. In the 2014 exhibition, when Aleksandar Vukic became prime minister, he said that reconstruction and completion of the National Museum was one of the priorities and he really managed to complete the reconstruction of this museum in four years, and 11 years before. I'm just curious about one thing: whether the former government's representatives are aware of what this immaterial loss is if at this point we ignore this financial aspect, that they've grown whole generations who are not able to visit the National Museum in which more than 400,000 exhibits are exhibited. I would also point out that from 2014 next to the National Museum, many other museums, the Museum of Contemporary Art, were opened, that the Museum of Yugoslavia was expanded, and that museums were also opened in much smaller places and cities. I am convinced, Minister, that during your term of office, every museum will be able to shine in full glory. Also, I would like to appeal at this time to examine all the allegations that they do not satisfy the valuables of the museum, because it is the treasure of our people and out of the mind of anyone who dares to claim it. We also have before us a decision to declare 720 books, old and rare books for cultural goods of exceptional importance. The Ministry of Culture, the National Library of Serbia, has submitted this proposal for the declaration of 720 books for cultural goods of exceptional importance and this is not the first time, this is already some established practice. On this occasion, I would like to appeal that each book represents itself in a unique way culturally well-being. I would like to remind you of the unfortunate event that took place in Belgrade at the promotion of Goran Vesic's books on Belgrade at the Progress Gallery. A book inspired by Belgrade, whose income was scheduled for humanitarian purposes, unfortunately marked the violence and burning of the book. We all remember that the only Nazis in history have burned books. As they treated culture, we know. The museums kept closed for years, cinemas systematically destroyed, theatres were extremed and neglected, and books burned. Since culture is one of the guards of national identity, I think it's the Fascist treasure to characterize their anti-Serb behavior. I'm just finishing up. (President: No more shorts, I apologize, you've run out of three minutes. It's the fourth minute, so finish up. ) I would just like to point out that in Surcin, where I come from, I soon end the theatre scene, that this time I call on the Minister of Culture to open the ceremony when the epidemiological conditions allow it and to thank the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, who was present at the opening today, the beginning of the construction of the section of the road of Milos the Great from Surcin to New Belgrade. In the day of voting, together with my colleagues, I will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4858	Thank you. Vice President, do you want to answer or give in the end? In the end. Then Jelena Obradovic, she still has time. No more MPs, but Jelena Obradovic was authorised on behalf of the parliamentary group. You have four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4859	Dear President-in-Office, honourable minister, MPs, I would like, at the end of today's debate, above all, to thank all the MPs for an extremely constructive and detailed debate on the proposal for a law on museum activities. I would like to point out in a few sentences, as a summary of all that we have discussed today, which is that the museum's work has so far been regulated by the 1994 Cultural Goods Act, so certainly the aim of today's Bill is one systematic improvement of this area through strengthening museum institutions and bringing European practices closer to the introduction of modern museological standards. This bill provides for conditions for the establishment, preservation, study, protection and presentation of our rich cultural heritage. The establishment of a high-quality and stable museum network, linking institutions and representing the education of museum experts, creates conditions to improve the entire museum profession in Serbia. The introduction of new provisions of this bill, such as the Museum Council and the museum network, will significantly improve the quality of museum work itself as well as museum work. The museum council has the role of a professional advisory body to perform tasks of interest and development and to improve museum work. The museum network will first appear and network a clear structure and deployment of the museum network in Serbia. This will improve the conditions for museum work, as well as the full commitment to the protection of the museum building. The bill clearly defined the museum's obligations, as well as the founders, regulated their central and parent functions, as well as the regulation of territorial jurisdiction within the museum's network. I would therefore like to invite all MPs to vote in favour of this bill, as well as the proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being of exceptional importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4860	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4861	Thank you, very briefly. We started the debate this morning at 10.00 hours, now it's almost 19.00 hours, not a lot of words should be spent except that I want to thank all the participants in today's debate, all MPs and MPs for really making an effort and effort to get acquainted with the text of the draft law on museum work. I listened very carefully. I want to convince each and every one of you who invited me to come to your cities and municipalities that I will certainly do it first chance and make sure I see the museum institutions and cultural institutions in your cities. Once again, I would like to thank the Working Group, which has worked hard for a long time on this good bill proposal, particularly Mrs Tijana Palkovljević Bulgaria and all those people from the profession and interested who participated in the public debates that we organised. I look forward to the day when you will vote on this bill and the fact that after 44 years we will get a modern law that regulates museum work in a really professional way. I say, modern with all European standards of museum activity. Thank you so much again for the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-31-0.u4862	Thank you. Is anyone else answering from the president or the authorised representatives? No, I don't. ) I haven't been here before, I apologize, when Mr. Risticevic mentioned some political organizations from the past but just to say, don't be angry, please, Professor Atlagic sitting next to you, so he was a member of the CK of Croatia, I wasn't myself, I didn't arrive. We're just kidding. I absolutely agree with him, we never respect fighters for our country, and I helped to get into Gage's Han, that house that you're talking about renovates because it's a shame, but it wasn't a subject today, and that's why I made a little joke. According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint principled Single Search on the draft acts referred to in points 2 and 5 of the agenda. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, with the sixth item of the agenda. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 62 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that 120 MPs are present in the hall at this time, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
