ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7816	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence, I find that the session is attended by 76 MPs. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are at this time 106 MPs present in the hall, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7817	Thank you. Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I will ask the government, specifically, the Ministry and the Office for Public Investment Management. The issue is about resolving water supply, since we are within our programme, which President Vukic suggested last year, the programme for solving infrastructure matters, specifically, water, sewers and roads... in all of Serbia. Apropo, in particular, is a question related, since the investment office within its project also has a reconstruction of the water network in the municipality from which I come, from the municipality of Svrljig, but because of some things it all cares about. I wonder when that's gonna start. When will these projects be activated? When will he start solving the problem of water supplying the municipality where I come from? The purpose, complete reconstructions, waternets and on this project that covers the reconstruction and resolution of these springs, the master's waters? That would solve the big problem of the locals and the citizens of the municipality that I'm coming to, it's the municipality of Srlig. Secondly, it is a water supply solution, since it is a project, the Selova dam, a topic my colleague Bratimir Vasiljevic spoke of at one of the previous sessions. Otherwise, it's the government's question, "Serbians". I can remind those present that the Selova dam began in the last century, 1986, that in Kursumlia, and that the issue, the resolution of the Selova dam, would be solved by the problem of water supplying Kursumlia, Blaca, Žitoraj, Nisa and it would be a really big thing for all the citizens who live there. This was started through projects, through programmes and direct investment, but during the bombing, there were problems with solving from the continuation of the Selova dam, so until today most of the work was done. Otherwise, I can remind and present that during the 1990s when Nisa Mayor was Zoran Zivkovic, and in the previous leadership, they all signed that it is necessary for Kursumli, Blace, Žitorajje and Prokuplje, so they did not sign that the project that is very important for southern Serbia, the Selova dam for water supply management. Meanwhile, the mayor of Nisa was then Zoran Zivkovic. He delivered a letter, a fax, I don't know what happened now at that time to the prime minister, and said the city of Nis was not interested in building the Selova dam, which is why it was stopped. That's all we're talking about is the care of some who've been to some of the key functions in Nis. Otherwise, it's important that this project is completed as soon as possible. I have information and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic was in Kursumlia, where the process of building the Selova dam was restarted. My question is, how far did it go with this project? It's what Serbians do, a public company. I have great confidence in the director of "Serbia", Mr. Puzovic, who is a really professional man, who knows his job and his professional team. The funds have been provided, and I expect it to start working very quickly. The Selova dam would not be a solution to the problem of water supplying all these municipalities and Kursumlia, Blaca, Prokuplja and Žitorajje. The city of Nis has a highway pipeline that was built in the last century, a highway that should be reconstructed and would certainly require more investment, I'm sure that the Nisa city budget would not have the opportunity to do it alone without the help of the state. I am sure that through the "Selova" dam construction programme, water factories and all that is needed, to this masteral water supply that would be from the dam, to the cities, to these municipalities, it would be a great opportunity for the development of tourism in Kursumlia, to solve the problem of floods, and all this would give a chance to develop this part of Serbia. I think it's necessary, I think we should do it as soon as possible. I know there's been a problem with the crown, specifically about development, about economy and everything else, but our country has been very good at it. Once again, my question is when will finally solve the Selova dam problem, as most of the construction works have been done. The rest are your work. The value of these works complete for joining these places by some budgets would be up to 100m euros, but it is important that it is settled, it is important for all. In addition, if the city of Nis would get water from the Selova dam, from there my citizens of Svrljiga could do part, it was a free fall, the town of Nis and Svrljig are bordering, we would have the opportunity to use one part of it to solve water supply in the municipality of Svrlig. Once again, distinguished colleagues, friends, I expect that we will be able to solve the Selova dam, solve the water supply, and thus resolve the remainder of all of us living in that part of our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7818	Thank you. Please sign up who else wants a word. The People's Messenger Radovan Aregina has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7819	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Dacic, the Honorable Presidency, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is my honor, as the President has said, to address this home on behalf of a whole region, to say, Podutnova, but before I address the parliamentary issue, I would like to convey the greeting of the citizens who, at least to me and to whom I have contacted, who particularly welcome the studio address and discussion at the session we had on Kosovo of the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and I must stress the special satisfaction of your state speech that you addressed in that session both of us here and citizens throughout Serbia. My current parliamentary question concerns several ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia -- the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, the Ministry of Economy and the roof Ministry of Finance. We are witnesses and we are particularly pleased that in the time of our coalition of SNS and SPS and the state leadership representing this coalition, many infrastructure projects are realised of European importance, for the benefit of all our citizens and citizens in every part of our country, our beautiful Serbia. I am taking the opportunity to welcome the dynamic beginning of the reconstruction of the Kladovo-Donji Milanovac road, to highlight the completion of the reconstruction of the Kladovo-Fast Palanka road. Also, we expect to continue the reconstruction of the road through the Lower Key at Kladova, where the share of Kladovo-Kostol-Mala Vrbica and Velika Vrbica was completed in the length of nine kilometers and we expect a 15km extension of Velika Vrbica-Rtkovo-Korbovo-Vajuga and Milutinovac soon. In order to speed up the development of the most beautiful landscape in this part of Europe, the Đerdapska gorge, we need to open and intensify river traffic on the European Corridor 7 or the Danube River which will connect Rotterdam - Constanta and the North Sea with the Black Sea, while the Danube flows through Serbia within 588km, of which 92km through the Municipality of Kladovo. The most beautiful part of the Danube is the Đerdapska gorge, from Golubac where it extends at a width of 6.5 km, the Golubak Fortress, through Kazana, where the width is only 150 meters and depths of 90 meters, Lepensko Vir and Donji Milanovac, Trajan's Tablet, Tekija, the Đerdap 1 Hydropower Plant, Karakas and Kladova. In order to present to the world much of Serbia, the region, Europe, and the beauty of Serbia's Podunov, we need through us the engagement of the mentioned ministries and their mutual coordination, as well as the cities of Belgrade, Smedereva, the municipalities of Velika Gradište, Golubac, Majdanpek and Kladova in order to establish the passenger and river line of Belgrade, Smederevo, Ram, Velika Gradište, Golubac, Donji Milanovac, Tekija, which we once had until the mid-80s in the former SFRY. These vessels, or hydroglisers, called rockets, used kerosene as a driving fuel, came from Belgrade to Tekia in three and a half hours. The SFRJ government subsidized a serious part of the cost, but it paid off on a number of grounds. Therefore, my question, as well as the appeal that the ministries I mentioned, along with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the driving imputes of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, designed a solution to time and technological development in relation to the latest places and where more economical vessels, and thus, with the reconstruction of fortresses that adorn the Danube coast from our Serbian side, we complete and make available to many tourists from the world our impressive tourist potential as a collage of historical times from Belgrade to Kladov, thereby speeding up the development of all cities and municipalities from this unique tourist destination. To specify the question – does the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the ministries that I have cited as competent, consider an integrated approach to development in Podunavlje as our huge traffic and tourist resources and the launch of the Belgrade-Tekia river line – Kladovo and is there a single and development document for our Danube? President of the Assembly, just to remind you, the President of the Assembly is familiar with this area because he was once on action in Gerdap and in Bukov in the early 1980s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7820	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7821	Thank you, Chairman. As my esteemed colleague Regina said, if I remember correctly, I convey greetings from one of the regions. We're usually used to talking about the whole address in some way about our community's situation in the region. However, this time I have another question, and I am asking for another explanation. It concerns, above all, the north of Serbia, or Subotica, from which I come. In order to make it more clear, I'm going to make a little introduction. Today, as you know, the Free Zone operates in Subotica, a place that brings together a large number of foreign investors, where nine recognised world companies, such as "Simens", "Svarovski", "Continenthal" etc., are operating today. The Free Zone today employs 6,400 workers, and total traffic is about 800m euros. So 6,400 workers or more thousands of families find existence in the Free Zone. To make it clear to you, in 2012, several companies functioned in the same place, while in the Free Zone there were 1,180 people, and the total traffic was around 305m euros. It's good to compare these numbers. So 6,400 employees today with 800m euros in traffic and 1,180 employees and in 2012 and 305m traffic. It's nice all of this and this sounds good, but you should never lose sight of one thing – someone had to put a lot of effort into this. Someone had to make the situation in Subotica and Serbia look what it looks like today. This effort was primarily invested by the president of the state, the Serbian government, and then by the province authorities, of course, and the Mayor of Subotica with his team, but I think, first of all, the citizens of Subotica and Serbia who have submitted a really great sacrifice to be here today, and above all, pensioners. Of course, we owe these people great gratitude. That's what the pensioners from Subotica did. However, another big question is being asked here. I was telling you about today's situation, the state of 2012 and what it looked like in Subotica and the Free Zone, but it's asking a real question – what happened by 2012 and what led to Subotica from an industrial city, which it was worth decades ago, becoming a place of unemployed and a place of destroyed factories. That question is just being asked by those who created these factories and who suffered the greatest sacrifice to be here today -- pensioners, people who lived and worked in these factories, people who created these factories and that city. Subotica, in those years until 2012, was left without the most significant symbols, industrial of course. She ran out of "29. November", without "Medoproduct", without many other firms, but as a paradigm of robbery privatisation, "North", a company that employs 2,000 people and is completely destroyed in robbery privatisation. The pensioners and citizens of Subotica have asked me these days whether the prosecution and the judiciary will do something to make those who led to this situation, which destroyed the Saturday economy, finally fit for all the events organised by the Sudotics and Serbia. What message do we send if people who are today at the head of the Serbian opposition, because they were directly incorporated into the then robbery privatisations, does this mean that we are ordering that if these people come to power again, they will be allowed to do the same? The only logical thing about not reacting to the prosecution against those who robbed this country could be that. If they're forgiven then, I don't see any reason not to forgive them again. It's a question of the citizens of Subotica, the question of pensioners, those who created these factories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7822	I thank my colleague. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović and Josip Broz. We continue to work and move on to a common principled and unique search on the proposals of the law from point. 5) and 6) of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend: Radomir Ratko Dimitrovic, Minister for Family and Demography, and Sinisa Mali, Minister of Finance, with associates. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled and uniform search on the proposals of the law at issue. 5) and 6) of the agenda, and before the opening of the joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time we assign to the parliamentary groups a relative number of MPs of members of the parliamentary group. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consensually. Paragraphs 1 and 170, and Article 157(2), respectively. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the elimination of double taxation in relation to income taxes and the prevention of tax ejaculation and avoidance. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Minister? Just sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7823	Your Honor, thank you. People's MPs welcome you, I hope that given the importance of this law, you will pay attention to what I have to pass on to you. So, the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children is based on the right and duty of parents to raise and raise children, the right children to living conditions that enable them to develop properly and commit the state to support the welfare of families, children and future generations. The provisions of this law form part of the overall social care for children and contributes to improving the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children, provide a special incentive for the birth of children and provide support for materially endangered families, as well as families with children with disabilities and children with disabilities, as well as children without parental ageing. Therefore, this law represents the country's definition of social policy, and including demographic needs, is also an important instrument of population policy. The law applicable from 1 June 2002 and amendments to the Law were implemented in 2005 and 2009. The previous application of the law in practice has shown that it is inevitable to approach new amendments and additions that could only be carried out by making a new law because of their size. Therefore, the new law was adopted in December 2017 with effect from 1 July 2018. The new legal solutions facilitated the process of exercise of rights and expanded the scope of users, enabled better coverage of social protection users in a state of serious socio-economic dangers, which were not covered by material gifts. Also, this law established additional protection for children from particularly vulnerable groups, children with developmental disorders, disability, children without parental ageing and children of beneficiaries of financial social assistance. This law introduced a new right to other birth benefits, care and special care for children who allowed a large number of women, most of them, to make their first payment in the period after the birth of the child. It is about women who are not in a working relationship, but are self-employed, are owners of agricultural land or are employed on the basis of temporary and occasional jobs, work contracts, copyright contracts or are unemployed at the time of birth and have not obtained the right to cash compensation based on unemployment, and have worked during a period which is of an impact on the exercise of rights. In addition, this right can also be achieved by women who are farmers' insurance companies. In this way special protection has been provided for women who are employed by flexible forms of work and who now do not have to interrupt their activities, or decide whether or not to reduce them in any form, and the state provides them with compensation based on previous allocations based on contributions to compulsory social, i.e. pension and disability insurance. Special support is also provided to parents for the birth of the first child, taking into account the increase of the so-called First expenses. New legal solutions also enable the reduction of the necessary documentation, the direct payment of the right, as well as the better protection of an employee's family whose regular incomes during the absence period are no longer conditioned by the will and current financial situation of the employer. Following the adoption of the Strategy for Incentives of Birth in March 2018, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic's proposal was approached by amendments to the Law adopted in June 2018 with effect from 1 July of that year, with regard to height, way of harmonising the payment of parental allowances and fees for the purchase of child's equipment, allowing the right to a parental allowance for a third and fourth child in monthly amounts of 12,000 and 18,000 dinars, respectively, for a period of 10 years. Immediately after the application of the law, a number of rights users, as well as associations dealing with family and children, expressed their dissatisfaction with certain provisions, especially those relating to the way in which profits are calculated. It is primarily about women who have been found with a new way of calculating earnings, and before the start of pregnancy, i.e. maternity leave and were not working, or were working on black and on the knowledge of pregnancy, they started a working relationship. In this regard, women who have not been engaged either on the basis of flexible forms of work, temporary and occasional contracts, work contracts, copyright contracts, and how in the period since the impact on profit compensation has been recorded a small number of basics on which contributions for compulsory social security and profit payments have been paid have been established in a small amount. Otherwise, the new way of calculating earnings is based on the real and rational principle that the remuneration is due to the corresponding contributions made to compulsory social security in the long-term law that precedes its use. Several initiatives have been launched before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality and compliance with the general rules of international law and the approved international agreements of certain provisions of this law. The reasons for the adoption of the law stem from an analysis of its current application in practice and the need to amend and supplement existing legal solutions in order to improve it, as well as the arrangements for the provisions of the laws which the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional. As the law has brought a lot of newspapers in this area, it is done with the beginning of its application and an analysis of its effects in practice, all in order to improve the legal provisions adopted. Data on the information system for the single payment of the Ministry's labour, employment, martial arts and social issues were used to analyse the effects of the law. After considering all the proposed solutions and their economic effects, the amendments and additions to the legal provisions in the framework of available budgetary options were approached, in order to further improve the material situation of families with children. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws are made under the right of income compensation during maternity leave, leave of work for the care of the child and leave of work for the special care of the child, therefore, that each working woman during maternity leave which lasts from the day of the maternity leave is required for 28 days, exceptionally upon the doctor’s finding 45 days before the child’s birth date of up to three months of life, in fact, the benefit paid during the maternity leave which cannot be less than minimum earnings determined on the day of departure if she has recorded grounds during the observed period at least one on which the incomes are paid for the character of the income. According to the provisions of the law before these amendments for the exercise of this right, it was necessary to register with the competent authority at least six minimum bases on which contributions to incomes having a profit character were paid. A working woman who has a sick child for whom the competent commission has approved the use of leave-of-work for the care of a child may use a salary fee for that time and an allowance for the assistance and care of another person for a child. The right to special care of a child can last until the fifth year of a child's life. Other birth benefits and child care benefits and special care for the child. A woman who is a farmer may exercise the right to other birth and care benefits and special care care of a child, taking into account the basis on which contributions for pension and disability insurance were paid within 18 months preceding the birth of a child. This provision will have a retroactive fact since 8 May 2021, taking into account the published decision of the Constitutional Court on 7 May of the current year. A woman acting independently or engaged by means of flexible forms of work, temporary and occasional contracts, a work contract, an author's contract or an insurance undertaking and a sick child for whom the competent commission has given its opinion may benefit, in addition to the right to other child care benefits, and an allowance for the assistance and care of another person for a child. The right to special care of a child can last until the fifth year of a child's life. As of January 1st, 2022, employed women, women self-employed or engaged on the basis of flexible forms of work, and earning incomes greater than three average earnings in the Republic of Serbia will be able to make profits and other earnings of up to five average earnings in the Republic of Serbia on the day of the start of the absence. The law also introduces a provision relating to the possibility of applying for a recalculation of earnings and other charges if all the basics have not entered into the account, since contributions for compulsory social security, i.e. pension and disability insurance have not been paid, if in the meantime, contributions have been made. Parental supplement. With the right to a parental allowance, it is possible to exercise the right to a parental allowance for a fifth child if one of the live birthrights of the previous birth order died immediately after birth and was not granted the right to a parental allowance, precision has been made regarding the immunisation of children and the life of a family in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. A child's allowance. It is possible to exercise the right to a child's allowance and to a child of a higher order born from the fourth if the death of a child is no longer possible for one of the four children of the order of birth. Precises have also been made regarding the single-parent family and incomes that have been influenced by the exercise of rights and are also made with regard to the single-parent family and the height of the increase in censorship for a child's allowance for a single-parent family. It was also given the legal basis to the Commission of the Republic Fund for PIO that child health professionals and in the process of exercising the right to cash compensation based on unemployment during the special care of the child. It is regulated to return legally unfounded amounts of funds whose payment is not in accordance with the law. It is predicted that the application of this law begins on 1 July 2021. Amendments and additions to the law will be subject to the conditions, in addition to additional funds and changes and additions of sublegal acts, appropriate changes and additions to software for payment of rights, as well as training of employees working on the rights tasks prescribed by this law. Dear People's MPs, thank you for your attention. That was what we considered to be the most basic and most important thing to tell you. We're here for anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7824	I thank the ministers. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The president of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7825	I thank the President-in-Office, honourable ministers with fellow Members and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty at its session discussed amendments and additions to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children and unanimously adopted the Bill of Amendments and Laws and, of course, proposed to the National Assembly to amend and supplement the laws. The issue of birth and birth is for the SNS, for the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, a question of national interest and a question of state interest and a strategic question of the Republic of Serbia. The first to draw up a problem of a negative generation not since yesterday, but since the 1950s, is exactly the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. In addition, the fact that the Law on Financial Support for the Family and Children, which has brought huge changes to the scope of women who can use birth-based rights on July 1, 2018, included, of course, significant material separations as a measure of financial support for the birth of a child, above all, the first child, which amounts to 100,000 dinars per month plus 5,000 dinars, for the second child, 10,000 dinars over a period of two years, for the third child of 12,000 dinars per month for the fourth child of 18,000 dinars in a monthly amount of 10 years. For the first time in recent history, it is seriously approaching measures to support population policy precisely and through financial support because the Financial Support Act is an important mechanism and an important instrument of population policy. What I would like to point out and, of course, to praise the changes and additions of this law and the provisions to which they apply is that in 2018, the competent ministry followed the effects of implementing the Law on financial support for the family and children co-operated with NGOs, co-operated with other competent ministries because financial support to the family with children, this mechanism requires a multidisciplinary approach and resulted in changes and additions that go in favour of the welfare of children and future generations. First of all, one of the basic changes is that these changes and additions determine the lower limit of maternity leave for working mothers, and for the first time now it cannot be lower than the minimum amount of earnings compared to the day of the start of the exercise of that right. So, even those mothers who haven't had these 18 months of paid contributions and taxes up to three months old can't get lower than minimum income. Also, one injustice has been corrected, i.e. the situation of parents who use leave-of-work leave for special child care, and these are parents who have children with developmental disorders and can now receive cumulatively the benefit of income during their absence from work for special care of the child and a supplement for other people's care and assistance, which the child, in accordance with the findings and opinions of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, uses on the basis of his illness. For the first time, attention was paid to a particularly sensitive and vulnerable group, which are unemployed women who exercise the right to cash compensation on the basis of unemployment. These women may extend the right to cash compensation if they have a child with developmental difficulties, i.e. a child for whom the competent commission of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund establishes that he is in need of special support. (Chairman: colleagues, five minutes is your time. But since I can see that you are also authorized, you can proceed afterwards in front of the parliamentary group. In any case, for the sake of well-being and future generations, we suggest that the law be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7826	Thank you. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7827	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens, the theme of the family today in the form of a law on financial support for the family with children is one of the most important topics that can be found in front of MPs of the National Assembly. We MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party have been focusing on the subject of the family over the past term, and we are very happy to welcome the decision to establish the Ministry of Family and Demography, which is one of the key reasons why we support this government, because this issue is so important that it is one of the strategic foundations of the future of the nation, the people and all the communities in this country. That is why we look forward to every step towards improving our family's relations and responsibilities in all segments, using all the opportunities ahead of us, and the issue of financial support is one of the very important, i.e. the very important possibility for families, especially families with children, to show the necessary support. True, whether families decide to give birth to a larger number of children or give birth, only material aspects or moments will not be crucial, but it is very important. The direct consequence or direct effect of these measures that we are now adopting and improving this law is to facilitate the lives of families with children and to facilitate the raising of those children. But these measures also have their own implicit consequences and the results that are reflected in the fact that with this kind of concern, these separations and giving meaning to families with children in this way, through this law, is actually sent a message that is more than just financial support. In fact, we send a message to families and to the general public how much we care about the family, how important we think our family is and that we put family and birth and raising children into strategic and inevitable priorities. True, and I expect that this ministry whose priority is family and demographics are actually going to include in its strategic plans other options of family affirmation and support to the family, because the question of parents' decision to give birth to children is a question that is much more than biological, and that means a lot more than material. It's primarily ethically cultural, because those parents who decide to have more children actually show their selflessness. So the key factor in the analysis of why parents take the risk of having children is selfishness. Selfishness is an ethical spiritual and cultural factor. It's not always a matter of materialism. On the contrary, biology of culture is a key enemy of raising large families. Where materialism prevails in the cultural, ethical and spiritual sense, the parent starts to view the child or possibly the birth of a child as a factor that will make his life difficult for him, whether it's going to make his life difficult by burdening his family budget, whether it's about the child being a limiting factor for his parents, for his mother, to give in to various hedonistic possibilities, because he needs to devote himself to that child for nine months in pregnancy, and then in the care, growing and raising in that time, and then you gain weight, so you lose the line, so you're no longer attractive to night life, so for this, so on and so on. These are all the factors that need to be spoken of in public. They are not explicitly financial, but they are materialistic in that difficult, or negative sense. Being a mother, being a good mother means being selfless. Why are mothers better than fathers? Well just because they have so much selflessness to bear and raise a child and wake up 15 times during the night to cry or a simple reaction to a child or a baby and that when a child wakes up at half the night not to scream out of anxiety, but to pardon him, to anoint him, to feed him, etc., etc. That's what men can't do. That's why the mothers are outside. That's why mothers are three times ahead. That's why they're the only ones who can do it, and it's not just a biological dimension that's god-given to give birth to a woman, no, it's a question of ethical, spiritual, mental, emotional structure of personality that only has a woman in the form of a mother. That's why the question of changing the course of relations, the cultural pattern towards the birth of children, should actually include that very broad front. True, in such a biologicalized culture or, let's not say completely biologically, we are at some stage or some atmosphere of the distance between the East and the West, between spirit and matter, between the various tendencies of humanity and the animal that draws us, which is a man in principle, created, created from spirit and soul, from body and matter, from heaven and earth, in fact, because man is a compound of heaven and earth. What should be an ideal concept regarding the relationship between these tendencies is the balance between these relations. What modern man is in today, especially so-called. The western man on whose edge we are and, as you can see, we have, as you can see, this crucifixion and distribution not only in the cultural sense of our individual, family and social challenges, but we also have here in the National Assembly itself, so when we get the topic of gender equality or the topic of affirmation of LGBT culture, on the one hand, and on the other hand we have family and demography, now let's see where it's going to go. Where the apron will be our way. Where it goes, in terms of priority, it's all our reality, both of them and thirds, and we won't be able to get away from all the realities, but the question is what's going to go beyond is what's going to be on the top of the priority list. We all have many needs in our lives, but we usually have a list of priorities of these needs, and we always have a more important need over the less important one. Then we're wasting our energy on giving priority to more important needs, so for what's down or down if it stays, it stays. That's the way it is in a material sense. When you schedule the family budget, first pay what is necessary and then what is necessary, then what is desirable. It's so in the nature of the relationship. Therefore, also at the national level. This crucifixion, it can't last forever. We're gonna have to sort that out. We need to harmonize it and see to what extent we will allow the tendency or intensity to spread and dominate and whether it will be, whether the family will keep what we are now declaring to it, the truth is not just declarative. It's just that the establishment of the Ministry of Family Care isn't self-declaration, it's actually an indicator of the state's determination to institutionally, systematize support for the family. But, therefore, with all the support of greetings, joy is that, the euro, we round up the material package, the family package. In fact, I expect you to not stop at that, but to expand that front. The Ministry is there's a barrier to this fight, but not just that. It just really needs to lead this whole fight, and this fight has to be fought at all levels and in all segments of society. Why? If you have certain packages of measures, laws, good steps made by the Ministry, but if you have, for example, through the process of education, through the media, through various other cultural, quasi cultural or non-cultural offers, what ruins the values of the family, so I'm not sure we're going to achieve results. If we don't deal with this topic essentially, strategically, spiritually, ethically, culturally, believe me, the measures will look like patching, like that, canvas that's falling apart. They may be high-quality patches, but if the base canvas is already in the decomposition phase, it won't give the desired results. Therefore, the Family Protection Strategy, the family affirmation strategy must actually be broad, it must cover all these segments, and in addition, it must have some harmony, coordination between different segments of such a front. So here, in this topic, we have three key words, three key concepts that they should simply have, if I may say so conditionally, the degree of holiness in a political sense. So, family, mother and child. I am very pleased that the law has just given meaning to these terms and in the legal text itself, but also in the arguments and what follows, which means that there is a need for awareness of exactly the strategic categories not only in this law, but in this overall struggle and in this definition. The most important part of the topic will be covered by the Ministry of Family Care, and covered already. It's developing, the first time it's been established, it takes some time to actually spread its wings so it can fly there as long as it takes, but certain segments of jurisdiction will remain with other ministries. As I said, the Ministry of Education, i.e. the Ministry of Education for the Education sector, remained one part of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, regardless of the significant portion being transferred to this ministry, but you know, the domain of social relations, especially related to family matters and problems arising from divorce, for the status of children after divorce. You know we have a lot of problems in that field, we have a lot of abuses, illegalities. A single mother's phenomenon, a concept that must be given attention to, although it is covered by this law to the extent of financial support, but that phenomenon must be approached much more significantly, much wider, because the number of single mothers in this city, in Belgrade, in the country of Serbia are so much that we simply cannot imagine how many of these figures are. In addition to numbers, situations, conditions, unprotection, violence, injustice that seems to be a single mother, so the very fact, the very notion of a single mother is violent. The mother, in addition to giving birth, which she raises, now she needs to earn more, she still needs to complete the process. So that's the concept itself, the very fact that we've admitted the term - a single mother. It represents some kind of defeat or some kind of recognition of impotence before that phenomenon. When it simply escalates this phenomenon, and especially, as you can see, the measures of formal affirmation of women through numbers, through percentages, still do not produce results in a fundamental sense, I am very pessimistic that, although I supported everything that we have done here with regard to raising the number of Members of Parliament, i.e. a lady or women, and all these measures are psychological and symbolic. Unfortunately, the arena of life will continue to dominate the power of men because we live in a materialized culture and civilization in which power is a fundamental element of value. Where that is so, where spiritual and ethical evaluation mechanisms, essential and real ethical values, justice and proper attitude towards injustice, or violence, I am not sure that these concepts will produce results, which is also seen in the political sector, in the economic sector. Put as many as you want the percentage of women to be somewhere, but you will not be able to determine who will appoint those women, who will tell them, but you will be on the list, and you will not be on the list. So again, we're going to get a decision essentially, it's reality, it's not any criticism, this is the reality of our condition that is who it is and we're going to come back about someone deciding to fill those numbers, someone who's a man, and that means someone who's powerful, someone who owns, someone who owns it, someone who owns it, etc. So in that state, when you have the permanent domination of men in political, economic and other power sectors, then you realize how easy it is to exert influence on a social worker there whom you will bribe or otherwise animate him to take a mother's child and to give to a powerful father or someone who has a powerful man behind him. These are the realities we mostly know. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not talking about the paper here, you know this all. So, I haven't discovered anything new here, but it's just in the nature of a man that when he can't solve something, to turn his head from him, it's easier for him to skip it, it's easier for him not to think about it, not to talk about it, but we can't accept it. We have to talk about this, of course, with these promising activities, I repeat, from the formation of this ministry to the promotion of legal legislation. Full support to these measures. Finally, I would like to commend both the Government and the Ministry for having heard that at the last minute we were able to correct the question about children's additions to religious schools, traditional religious communities and churches, which was a lack of faith, which we talked about here several times, so we succeeded, thank God, to find a way to make it right through our amendment. So that's an indication that you have a sense of these things and of all those that represent a real need. With all this in mind, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support this law in the day of voting and support every activity, every step and every attitude aimed at affirmation, promotion and protection of families, mothers and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7828	Thank you. The speaker of the Single Serbia Group, Dragan Markovic Palma, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7829	Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Unique Serbia will vote in favour of this bill. For Unique Serbia, family is the law and purpose of life. In recent years, we can freely realize that much more is taken care of by the family than was 10, 12 and 15 years ago. It's not just what's called fighting the white plague, the day of birth, or now a new regulation that's been made to receive a certain financial aid for newborn children for 10 years. We also need to find out the facts that this country has also done and helped, because family assistance is both higher salaries and higher pensions, and family assistance is also helping factories during herds, and family assistance is also bigger pensions that have been increasing once or twice a year lately, and one-time assistance is being given to pensioners. The help of the family is these three thousand dinars that are being vaccinated. That's the reason and motive for everyone to be vaccinated, and of course we need to vaccinate everyone to protect their families, but that money goes to some family. Helping the family is to make local self-government rebalance their budgets and that something that is not necessary in the year which is very difficult, and will be more difficult by the end of 2021 and 2022, regardless of what GDP in Serbia is growing more than other countries, we need to see how at the level of local self-government as much money goes to help citizens and families. I live in a 12-member family, I have twelve family members, four generations, and I can make some conclusion about how these generations live, which is something that matters to them, what it is that a little older doesn't matter to us, and it matters to them. How to convince them, I think of children, that life is not what the themes on social networks are, because that's the same thing as part of a family, where we have to pay attention to what our children are looking at over social networks, whether it's some education, what are hidden profiles, what are messages behind hidden profiles. Parents don't have time to deal with it, but we have to, whether through schools or a special kind of education at national frequencies, just tell the kids what's good for them and what's bad. Here, now that we're walking through any city in Serbia, we'll see that 80% of young people, those up to 40 years old, used to be 30, have a cell phone in their hand and don't see anyone and don't know that they've been past any relatives and friends, because they've been texting and watching what's happening on social networks, and they're not following what's called vital life and what's vital. Single mothers, not those single mothers are guilty of having fathers, there are also single fathers, but in a very small number, so my message is, before getting married, you have to think carefully and whether you use God, as it is called in church, when you get married, answers or not, what it is like when he has money, when he has no money, what it is when he drinks, what it is when someone looks at you, his beautiful wife, etc., what it is when you just need to stay at work for two hours longer. These are all aspects of family preservation. Love, let me tell you, dear ministers and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on average, on average I receive 1,000 people per month in passing and everyone says that love for the last 15 years, maybe 10-15% remains true love. And love for a wife and father, a man, lasts until the first child is born and then problems arise. And in order to avoid that, today you have to make sure that money doesn't matter, that someone you're marrying has a lot of money. Is there any more money in the world than Dragan Gilas? So he beat his wife for alimony he didn't pay and even told her - I'll cut your head off. He also beat his father-in-law. So, money isn't important and important, and it's not processed. I'd like you, too, Minister, to raise that question. Mr. Gilas said, I call him a gentleman, as he is a gentleman, when he calls for bloodshed, he says - blood will fall on Belgrade's asphalt if there are no changes. It's not about those changes, it's about voters in the election. Why isn't an official application signed by Ivo Gilas, then Dragan Gilas's wife, under official duty? It's domestic violence and he's mirrored everyone. They say, "How can you see that there is nothing wrong with Gilasu?" His father-in-law and father-in-law, Eve Gilas, suffered severe physical injuries – nothing. He who gives his hand to a woman must be severely punished, and especially returnees, as they are called returnees for crimes that go to prison and commit the same crime, are no longer judged by the one "from-to" but by "to". And we have cases like this where we consider non-serious threats by husbands to women, and how many murders we have, how many women have suffered in the last month because of these thugs, even children have been victims of certain parents, to call them parents. What kind of parents are they? They're not parents, they're crazy for me. So, family is a symbol of existence, meaning of life. I can't function if I don't hear from my family at least five times a day, whether they're grandchildren, grandchildren, etc. They kind of charge me with batteries, give me the will to work. And so I want every family to be taken care of and cared for by children, women, wives, etc. So no one has the right to use force. We have a minister in charge of population policy, we have one bill of law, equality. In a family of equality between men and women, it was just a declaration, they did not take examples negative and that these examples would be something that would serve others, who were willing or subconsciously thinking that something had happened to his family, I don't know adultery, etc. If you don’t feel comfortable with your mate, divorce, a much better happy divorce, or a good divorce, than a bad life, and all this affects children. Children living in such families, those children have fear, those children can behave like that tomorrow when they become mates, because they usually carry everything out of the family. You don't get carried away from school, school educates you, but basic education is carried out by family. Why, we have cases that if a father or mother is a doctor, children are either medical staff, medical technicians or doctors, or if they are educational workers and children are the same, or if the educators are in kindergarten and the children are the same. So, the family is carrying everything, and we, as an institution, as a society, must not be silent observers and of course it has taken the wave of the last few years, and it is not respected what is called criminal provisions for these thugs, who want to demonstrate force and power over the weaker than themselves, on the lady and on the woman. I can commend your ministry, that your ministry is doing very well and that you are not often in parliament, but simply what you are saying has a certain result and that someone is aware of what you are saying. What else is it, Mr. Minister and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fight against the white plague? The fight against the white plague is also the stability of the dinars, so families can take credit. You used to take credit, 30% of your salary is war, in a year and a half comes to make the war 70%. Today, no. The stability of the dinars, or the course of the dinars, is still, and that's helping the family. Helping the family is also the cost of utility services, the cost of transportation. As well as my message to local self-government, let's get rid of everything that is necessary, that is, everything that is not important and that citizens drive free, as we did in Jagodina, but members of the city council can't accept salaries, just because you're finding it a political agenda, political parties, once in two months, when the meetings of the local self-government assembly. The communal police, it is the same burden for every budget of local self-government, or local self-government, and that the municipal police should only exist in large cities, in those cities where there are over 120,000 inhabitants, that they regulate traffic. For example, the municipal police, Jagodina has 83,000 inhabitants, would cost me on the basis of the number of residents, the number of employees, four million dinars per month, times 12 months, that's 48 million or 400,000 euros. So, I've directly saved 400,000 euros and I don't want to be punished by ordinary people, communal cops. He won't punish me, he won't punish Ziku Starcevic, he won't punish some other politicians and famous people, but that's why he's going to punish that ordinary little man. And when we save it like that, then we help families who don't. You know how many families don't have the money to send a child to sea? They don't, they have three kids, four kids, and the same local self-government can do its job, just saving. For 15 years I have been sending, I think, the city of Jagodina, to the sea of those who finish fourth and eighth grade in Montenegro, and those who finish high school go to Greece to the sea. Why? So our children don't be stupid tomorrow, to see how they live in one European country. Why I'm taking students from donors, and they want people who have money to help ministers, they will, those who have a lot. Ask them and I have led all these people to Vienna to see that Europe is not what they say, so just go to the EU and do nothing. It is not true that there are some different rules about work, working relationships, that when it comes to colleges, universities, nothing is cheaper than in Serbia. There are many expensive apartments, there are many students from Serbia in Vienna, I'm telling you because I've been working on this topic and we can do these young people the next day, when he goes on a trip, three, four days and sees his country, where he can hire anyone, every profession. Well, we created such conditions, the state of Serbia, headed by President Vukic, that they began from all over the world to come. Of course, we who support this power, JS and my coalition of SPS and your party and all other parties, and we created conditions for foreign investors to come, began to come investors who have large companies, powerful, to dislocate their production plants that are two hundred years old in a country where up to seven, eight years ago, had a label in the big world media that we are the worst in the world, and we are not, it turned out now that we are the best. When it's the hardest, we were the best. And when is the hardest time for a man? When he was sick, when the whole world was sick of a bad disease called the Crown, the first one we had was four vaccines, they didn't have any more developed countries than we were. That's why we're being attacked by some former republics that have made Yugoslavia, because they don't stand the same, when it comes to GDP, the debt per capita, they've fallen drastically down, and we're in all the international institutions that follow the ratings in every sense of that word, our country, we're at the very top, and we're recognised by the largest and most powerful countries in the world, or that we're asking to recognise independent Kosovo, and we're never going to do that. We have become an economically stable state, politically secure, health security, and such a state is being sought by the owners of large capital. These capital owners are also asking themselves in these strong and powerful European states, and they are our direct ambassadors in economic and economic terms. When someone comes from new, potential investors, I don't talk to him about Serbia anymore, I don't talk about the conditions Serbia offers, I don't talk about Jagodina where at this point there are 12 old factories, open, two new ones are made, one Austrian, one Chinese, and they're open by the end of the year, but they're talking. Then I give that new interested phone number to those that already existing investors are working in Jagodina and they are the best marketing. No, only in Jagodina, but in all of Serbia. You see, sometimes, and it's all for family reasons, sometimes small towns, small municipalities, and especially in southern Serbia were used only in the election campaign. When the election's over, forget what's said. It's said they're a small constituency. A small constituency when elections pass, and during the election campaign, they have enough voters and voters to vote for you. There is no such thing now, that discrimination no longer exists in Serbia and it is all because of the family. I'm a man who lives in central Serbia, which is what she would say: "I'm a happy man," and I like music to play, that a wedding wreath exists at the gate, that children are born and that only good things happen to us. Unfortunately, last year we have many more dead than born when compared statistically to 2017, 2016 and 2015, there were once 33,000 more dead than born, and this year, if I didn't bid it is that much, much larger number of dead, and the number of born is smaller than the number that was before the crown. Although there are such stimulating measures, I beg you as a resolute minister, that when you talk about family, that it's not just what the state said - purposefully from the budget, I don't know Conto 517, it's for that, and it's for that. All these items that I've listed are about family and it's all about family. Just to see how to preserve the family and the messages they send us, which are militant messages, from some opposition leaders who want to show Serbia as if nothing was wrong in Serbia, democracy has disappeared and these messages stop Serbia on the European path. I'm sure they won't be able to lie about Serbia much longer. All right, now we're fighting the program, so they say -- this program sucks, our program is better, and they need 1.5% of the poll, they're talking about taking power, and they need 1.5% more to cross the censorship. So 1.5% of the popularity is. I mean, this is who took the money, Wolf Jeremic, no severance, no professorship, no contract. What's the point of someone paying you in a jury account? The point is to do something for that money and to harm the citizens of Serbia. I'd like the minister to answer my suggestions, if it weren't just for helping your family through your portfolio, but also for this, and for how to protect married couples in the future, to think carefully about getting married, you're an experienced man. Minister, I apologize for asking you to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7830	The word has Minister Dmitrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7831	I'm not experienced, Markovic, I wasn't divorced, if that's what you mean. You've opened one topic that's very and wide and deep and can't do it in a few minutes, let alone shorter than that. It's a question of marriage today. I think you know of a data that is frightening that in several recent years in Serbia divorce is at a percentage of between 35% and 40%. We have, later on, I'm going to say something broader, a very significant problem with this which, in some ways, Mr. Zukorlic opened up, and that's the question of a woman, which you mention, the question of a mother, the question of a young mother. It is the woman who today, not just today, but for a long time has decided what is the birth rate and how much is the birth rate and how much is the birth rate. Why? Because a woman, thank God, is free, emancipated, has been given opportunities that were previously unimaginable to get herself an education to the highest level, academics, scientists, to do scientific work, and then there's a woman who, as she is, decides about herself, is not vulgar to tell about her body and she says, I want to have one child, I want to have two children. They come true almost in all these elements and have four children. But it's the woman who decides, and there are no more circumstances to bring in the woman, so they tell the family 80 years ago, you're going to have five, six children. No, I don't. A woman is having as many children as she thinks she should today, and we need to help her here, significantly. Anything we can do to help a woman make a decision to have more children. The question of the number of children, the question of fertility, fertility, birth, is no longer money. These are very important measures that we bring. We're improving, but the money isn't crucial. If it were crucial then the birth rate would be 4.7% in Norway, and it is 1.7%, Malta, as in Serbia. So look around you people who are wealthy, who are rich people, they don't have five or six children. No, I don't. A maximum of one, possibly two. So it's not crucial anymore, it's a matter of consciousness. This is a theme of symposian character, so the civilization walk that led to this on vertical values -- the child is no longer the highest value. Unfortunately, that's a fact. What we can do here, I will try along with my associates, so also with the highest political peak to offer a document somewhere early next year where we could possibly draw a little more radical measures to change that. So the question of consciousness is why we don't have any more children. I mentioned it the other day and I'll repeat it here. There's no way without large families to fix a demographic image. It's as normal as two and two. We don't have big families anymore. We destroyed the family cult. Our family is no longer what it used to be. There's no repair of the demographic image, it's just that it's proportionate and consistent with what I've been saying and it's been going down for decades, that our reputation and our family cult have been dropping. This -- the family cult, has no religious or religious significance. Absolutely not, but positive. It used to be the greatest honor, wealth, reputation, so we qualified large families by having four or five children. These kids were either in the field of craftsmanship, or in the community, on scientific, sporting high scores, it was said -- it's from that family, now not to mention the last name, so I don't identify anyone. No, we don't have that today. It's not just us characteristic of it, far away, they're all. So we got into that rut a long time ago, when our brand is more important than our kid, when it's more important how much we paid for the car, do we have a two-ar apartment, do we have a five-million-dollar yacht, do we have a 400-square villa, than if we have five kids. We're on our way, so there won't be a dilemma to teach someone a lesson. No, I don't. I'm just describing the situation. There is no country in Europe where birth rate is 2.1%, and that is simple reproduction. None. And you know how far up they are in the north of a rich country. I mention all of this to encourage you to think about how complex this problem is. It's not an investment type problem -- some place is underdeveloped, so we're going to invest five million euros, bring in a company, work, have some production, hire 200,300 people, etc. No, this is an extremely complex problem that's not from one piece, but it's from at least six, seven elements and you can't force it, or by investing money, or big money, you can't make a big turn. I've been doing this for a long time, amateurly, of course, and now I've got a chance to do it and my life's over. I don't know if there's anything, and if I hadn't studied in the space of Europe, first of all, we don't mention this further, which is very interesting, it would have entered another topic. For example, Russia invested huge money to raise the birth rate. It's a lot of money. These measures have yielded results and these investments, but after a few years, the maltenes have returned to the very beginning. Why? So I repeat what I said - money is not crucial to having children. Look today who has five, six, seven children. These are very modest families, very modest opportunities for material ones, and those who have four, five cars have one child, not four or five children. I'm not giving anyone a lesson, God forbid, I'm just saying, and I'm distracting, and this is a crucial question. This is the basic question. This is a question of all questions. Here, yesterday you could hear the president of the state who said, "We're free of everything we do if we don't have children." All we do is get rid of it. I'm here for the first time in a situation to talk. We are a nation that, Malten, attends its own funeral. We disappear like a snowball on a hot sheet. We can't accuse anyone, man or party, it's been going on for decades. It began with the time after the war of re-industriousization, when villages began to empty and pretend so-called. working settlements around industrial centers, which were necessary, of course, but no one thought back then that it would empty our villages. Serbia has been renewed and survived always exclusively and only in the country so far. We need to see what to do and what to do, in addition to these measures that we've improved by this law, what else to do. What is possible to stop a trend that is negative? So, just to stop him, it's going to be a huge success. I'm not saying that if there were any shifts in this ministry and in these efforts that I have along with my associates and with the political high and with the government, there would be some results, so now that I'm raising them here, that I'm giving them extra importance. No, I don't. So if we can reduce this negative trend, we'll do a big thing. We are on the measures that have been brought in 2018, so the ones we are fixing now, we have raised the birth rate from 1.48 to 1.52 and that is the result that is not spectacular absolutely, but is significant, because every trend is significant and it has indicated something that the crown has happened, which has destroyed us, therefore, with results that are constantly getting worse and worse not in Serbia alone, everywhere. We'll see if there are any questions later, but that's the point. I thank you, first of all, to you who have spoken for your understanding so far. I also thank you in the future attitude that I absolutely expect you to understand that this is the problem of all problems. In other spheres we can influence and influence and see from the results Serbia achieves in a relatively short time, but here the results on the demographic plan are seen after five or ten years, as we have for decades, as the flame on that candle has been getting smaller and smaller, so it will take us a long time to expand that flame, to raise it, to expand it, to have more children, to save the nation. We're in a situation where we have to save the nation. We can do anything. We can go down economically and get up. We have constant examples, thank God, positive in recent years, but here if we fall, it's extremely difficult because more than that, and I'm going to end up with this, to continue the presidents of Parliament clubs, because money is not crucial, it's a matter of consciousness. Thank you. Ristichevich, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7832	Thank you. (Marian Risticevic: What are you calling me? I ask the Minister not to discuss with the MPs. You can talk to me. The word has been authorised by the parliamentary group Social Democratic Party of Serbia representative Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7833	Thank you, Chairman. Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, just two days ago in this place, the President of the Republic reiterated and reiterated the importance of demographic policy for the future of our country's survival. The importance of demographic policy and intrinsic policy when we talk about long-term plans is a question that overcomes day-to-day political issues and day-to-day political divisions. To all those who are seriously considering and considering this issue, because it is a question of the future, and it is more than clear that without a successful demographic development policy that has been achieved and achieved, it will not mean much more in the longer term if we do not implement the necessary reforms in the area of demographic policy that will also enable the necessary stability. Today, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act for the family with children. This law is the foundation. It was the foundation of demographic policy when we first adopted it in this home, but also for us from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, it is not less important that segment that the law represents in the field of social policy, because it is directed, above all, towards helping one of the most vulnerable and significant and most prominent moments in the life of all young people, future parents, new citizens and fellow citizens. It is extremely important to mention this aspect of the application of this law, as often in the media when we talk about demographic policy, it is referred to as a matter of labour force or national survival. The direct impact that the current system has is to provide social security to our citizens who are committed to a step of establishment, but also to expanding the family. It's precisely with what you said, Minister, in response for a moment, that we have a duty, responsibility and obligation to create an ambience, and in the best possible way to support those families who want to come true in the role of parents, to support all those women who want to have more than one child, because this is the best example of the state's concern for the family and what we have for our survival is the key thing, that in this way we work responsibly and fix population policy. I read this law and I understand it exactly like that. So we're witnesses and there's no need to talk and repeat, because sometimes it gets sad. It causes sad emotions when we talk about Serbia's demographic picture and how old our population is. There is, therefore, no dilemma that this is a subject of intense importance that is very often discussed, but we often have to acknowledge and see reality not in that way and with that seriousness with which it should be and what question in the far line and demands. What the issue of demographic and family policy requires, above all, is a serious approach to the problems found during the implementation of existing solutions and their resolution and improvement of existing proposals so that the establishment and expansion of the family is a step that will at no time be a source of concern for the financial future of parents and their children. Our goal must be a system of support for families and families that will allow parents to make sure that when they decide to take that step that society and the state in that decision are fully supportive and that we will be there for them on the whole road, however long it lasts. The application of this law involves not only social care for parents but is a significant segment of social care for children, because helping parents materially at this critical moment, especially parents from materially endangered families and parents of children with disabilities, we provide them with a more materially secure childhood, but also parents to direct their attention to the family without cloudy uncertainty, primarily material, over their heads. The changes we're about to make. These changes and additions give us reason for optimism about reform and upgrade of the existing population policy and give us the right to be optimistic that we will achieve this goal. The expansion of the circle of women who have the right to maternity benefits and their increase, in line with the budget space, represents very significant steps and formalises the solidarity that we are all obliged to show at this point towards all families. On this occasion, I would like to highlight several key areas in which these changes will be viewed and have enormous significance, and which are in fact this tangible support to the families and which will take our fellow citizens and fellow citizens off their backs when they decide to design or expand their families. So, as major changes, I would especially point out that this law corrects injustice against parents of children with disabilities who at the same time could not make compensation for which their child has the right and compensations linked to mother's earnings. These amendments also recognised the problem facing agricultural insurance companies, which is also extremely important. Once we adopt this law, they will finally enjoy all those rights as well as any other family in Serbia. It is important to separate these changes and to introduce minimum income during maternity leave of work, i.e. up to three months from the birth of a child, the foster parents will receive three minimum earnings, i.e. five for all those wishes that before the maternity leave have earned much more than the minimum wage. This corrects one great injustice against those women who earn much more. First of all, there are not many in Serbia, but we can look at the solution to this problem from the corner of the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality that we recently adopted, since women and men are still, unfortunately, not even in the labour market. With this respect to five minimum earnings for all women who have higher incomes we put in the same plane and treat women and men in the labour market the same way and I think it's an extremely important change. The changes mentioned are only part of this law, but they clearly suggest that by adopting this law we will significantly improve maternity conditions for the wider number of mothers and that we will ensure a quite safe start for their children. These changes are fully in the spirit of solidarity and social care both for mothers and parents and for newborn children and will allow easier and safer entry into motherhood and a safer beginning of life for all newborns and in this spirit and sense of SDPS will certainly make a full contribution in the day of voting when we adopt this law. What I would like to draw your attention to is some of our constructive proposals that are on the line of what the prime minister was talking about, as well as other ministers in the government, and before you took over the family-care portfolio. So, we are aware that the changes we have accepted have taken into account the reality of the budget, but in the spirit of change I hope that in the future and after the adoption of this law we will continue to find opportunities in line with the budget to bring and provide even more comprehensive solutions for all those categories which, unfortunately, at this point, the law still does not recognise. When I say that, I mean entrepreneurs. It is a large group in Serbia that has about 90,000 registered in the APR. They are in a special position during pregnancy, but also during childbirth, of course, and maternity leave. Those of their maternity leave at this time cannot pass on to their partners and are often faced with many risks that are the greatest that they have to stop their work during that period so that I think it would be a good idea to think that in some future period, of course, when conditions are created in the budget, first of all, because we are all realistic and we know that something like that at this point is not real or real, no one is doing it. What we can do is try and appeal to find funds in the next budget for next year, to sort of, as far as possible, correct that injustice, so to speak, correct and change the way the basis for entrepreneurs is calculated. It is significant that this law of entrepreneurs is recognised as a category, but the space to be equal still exists, above all, through what I said would allow them to transfer to the partner and through the elimination of the formula, i.e. the change in the calculation of the basis. In a shorter period of time, these changes would lead to an increase in expenditure on the budget, but this should be considered in some future time when the conditions are met. We know that the pandemic has slowed down the process of passing this law to a good degree, but it has also made it impossible for us to address the problem of lack of money in the budget more comprehensively at this point. Fortunately, Serbia is growing stronger and stronger in economic terms, and I believe that we will soon be able to provide the necessary resources to further improve population policy. It is important for citizens only to draw attention to the fact that no one could know in 2019 when we were bringing the 2020 budget that we would have a pandemic, a global one, and no one could even assume to what extent we would have given, unplanned, to say, from the budget, and yet it was about givings that were important to survive and economy, but also financial support to citizens is huge and not negligible. Not to mention the vaccines, not to mention the respirators and everything that's on that road, when the pandemic hit us, it had to be made as a quick decision and the funds directed towards it. It's something that has really slowed this law down, but I think it's extremely important that we finally did it. As we know, support for entrepreneurs is also one of the strategic priorities of this government and I think that in that sense we should think about what I was just talking about. Another dimension can be significant for further improving population policy, which is to reduce the calculation of the base from 18 months to 12 months. This would then be in line with examples of good practice from those European countries that certainly have an extremely strong social policy. It would also be in line with the regulations of the European Union that we are seeking, since in most European Union countries it is exactly 12 months that the period on which the basis is calculated for both maternity and maternity leave and leave for the care of the child and all other benefits. I want to draw attention to another important segment of this law that we don't talk about often or much, and I think we should. This law should not be observed, nor read through the prism of who brings it, whom citizens support or do not support. As I said at the outset, it must not be involved in any daily-political divisions and divisions, because such laws are passed because of citizens, they help citizens directly and affect the quality of their lives and therefore it is important to underline this message that this law bears, that dialogue, understanding the ability to hear what the needs of citizens and citizens are also the result. This law that we have before you today is also the result of such concerns and the government, above all, the prime minister, of course with her team, to understand, recognize and hear, most importantly, everything that is necessary and where there is room for a population policy to improve and to make all that is the mistakes of the correct. Although, let's just say, we never make mistakes when we pass the law we can't look ahead. The best way is to follow the law in practice because this experience of direct application will give us the best indicator to which the law is good and to what extent the space is opened to further improve and there is nothing wrong with it. On the contrary, we thus show how important this topic is to us, but also to any other subject, because the quality of life of Serbian citizens has no price, however many times we need to talk about good solutions and good ideas. In search of these best solutions, it is up to us to do so simply and thus send a clear message to the citizens and citizens of Serbia that we are there for them at all times, to send a message to and from women who have come into play as mothers, but also to those who just want to start a family and give birth.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7834	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7835	I'm not finished yet. So, for us in the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, security is the realisation of the rights of citizens and citizens is extremely important, trust in institutions as well, adequate articulation of the most important and biggest problems whose resolution can start and solve other smaller ones is the only goal, as is the goal of getting good laws out of here, about which every MP of the SDPS Group is very concerned and committed, constructively and responsibly and in the past, but also in this assembly, that, of course, we create a better place for life than this home, with support and assistance together with our coalition partners in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7836	Thank you. Another apology if I interrupted you in your mind, but I heard you were providing support and I thought it was time. One more announcement before we proceed with further work, according to Article 27, and Articles 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been authorised by a representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, Emesa Uri's national MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7837	Dear Vice-Presidents, respected vice-presidents, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, is following an analysis of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, the view is that the bill is well designed, that the step out, that some mistakes have been corrected, especially in the direction of irregularities related to discrimination against the woman of the farmer, which we have pointed out several times, and in the day of voting, we will support this bill. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the right to freedom of birth, the rights of the child, the rights and duties of parents, special protection of family, mother, single parents and children, as well as social protection of citizens and families is a matter that is very important for the Republic of Serbia. Then, it should be borne in mind that the rights and duties of parents exist, and therefore it takes all the help to raise children in one family in the right way with the right support both by the family itself and by society itself. The reasons why it is necessary to stress that some of the items in the previous law have been amended have come from an analysis of the application of the law, i.e. practice and after some decisions of the Constitutional Court, I am now primarily referring to discrimination against farmers, maternity families who had to carry out a longer period of tax payment in order to have the right to the same conditions during maternity leave. It is very important that both citizens' and associations' proposals and suggestions have been discussed in harmonising these amendments and supplementing the laws. I think it's very important to hear the voice of the association where parents gather with some special needs, with some special sightings of some problems. It is very important that the minimum profit is a criterion, which cannot be below, during maternity leave until the third month of childhood is the income that this woman earns. What is important is that the government is pro-actively and the ministry is pro-actively trying to affect the demographic trend in us, as the minister himself said earlier. So this isn't a newspaper, we're not exceptions. Unfortunately, the whole of Europe is struggling with the same problem. It's just that somewhere and the possibilities and thinking, that is, initiatives and creativity as far as the state is doing, or how much it's trying to solve this problem somewhere. It doesn't matter, and it should come to all of us somewhere in terms of how much money it takes to make these changes in the law. That's about 65 billion dinars per year for this year, or to convert it into an understandable figure of 55m euros, that's not a small sum, maybe I've rounded it up, maybe it's not right into a dinar, but it's important to realize that these aren't small funds that are meant to move something positive towards the birth rate. What is important is that my predecessors, my fellow speakers, have already pointed out that some of the mistakes of the previous law have been corrected. So again, I stress that for us from SVM is extremely important, it's women farmers, then women who have higher incomes, and that they wouldn't be in an uninvited situation, whether they're going to decide on a child or money, with them the law allows five average salaries to be taken into account in these situations. What is even more important is a child’s supplement that also helps parents to care for the child directly, that is, to give them another incentive and help to raise children each month. Single-parent families are also identified and are somewhere more favourable than they were in a previous period. What is, unfortunately, a big problem, which is that the birth of children is far below the simple renewal of the population, which is also the case for other developed countries in the environment. However, as the minister said earlier, it is very alarming because it is practically not just a reduction in the number of inhabitants but primarily the greatest effect is seen in reducing the number of women, fertile women, young women who could possibly be born. I'm very sorry that there are no young colleagues in today's session that we have in an extremely large number in this session, which I should, I invite them, here they are, but hopefully they will pass on. Maybe we should make an initiative in front of the Women's Parliamentary Network to create an open door, whatever we call this gathering where we can all talk openly about this problem. I don't feel adequate to talk from a young woman's attitude. I've been accomplished as a mother, as much as, in my career, I've had the help of both my parents and my parents from my husband's side, but I think we should listen to young women, which is their basic problem, to be open, to listen to what they're facing. When you look on the male side, it is very easy to start labeling young ambitious women – there they are, chasing careers, not children. They even sometimes label themselves immoral, unethical, unaware of their national identity. Believe that's not what it is and that's the wrong idea. That's why I think that this problem is primarily to be talked about by young women, not even me, not women of my age, and in particular, I apologize to my colleagues, but not men. So we should listen to women. What are our problems, what are their problems and why they decide to wait for the child to be born? Maybe we should make a strategy for increasing the birth rate. It sounds rough, but it would take some plan not for a year, not for two years, for ten years, and then maybe we'll have some effects. I wouldn't look any further, I wouldn't analyze the bill myself, I'd look at some numbers again. You said they weren't a couple of motivations, but they probably are. For the first kid, you get cash once. Right now, it's about 102,000 dinars. It's a significant sum, believe me. The second child is currently receiving 246,754 dinars per two years. That's about 10,280 dinars a month in those two years. For a third child, 1,480,000 dinars, divided into 121 months of war, means a monthly of 12,337 dinars. For a fourth child, 2,220,000 dinars per 120 months. Ten years old, a woman who has four children in one period can get about 30,000 dinars, maybe even more. What's important, so a family with four kids from the state gets help somewhere around four million dinars. That's 35,000 euros in ten years. It's not small money. I'm not saying that women should make a business out of it, but maybe you should think about there being a profession, a mother's profession, and that she should be rewarded with a salary. Maybe that would be motivation. If we analyze why women don't have babies, I've been interviewing young girls, women, colleagues of my daughter who's at the end of college – what's that for, what's it to keep them from giving birth? The first and primary problem is the lack of partners and that's where the men come in. Where are they? Why don't they fight more actively to start a family? It's not always women's fault. Then, a large number of young girls, women, still want to finish their studies, schooling, perfecting, and then parenting. Understandable. From my point of view as a parent, I absolutely support my daughter in that. Then, very realistically, they see that at least one of them has a permanent job, and you know that for many years back a permanent job is a thought category. So you can get a job, so you're being blackmailed, so they're checking you out, and they're checking you out again and you're never gonna get to feel safe and start a family in the right way and come true as a mother. Many are waiting for their parents to be close to retirement, because then they can count on them. It's especially relevant in big cities. So, if someone's parent is from a small town, I can't come here every minute to watch the baby, to help. That young family means it has to wait for parents to be a little older, then whether they're capable of helping, but unfortunately, there's a bigger chance like that. There are also those who, regardless of all these problems, have accepted to be parents and are struggling with all these problems, with all the troubles, as successful as possible, more or less. What's the difference between a woman and a man when thinking about children? It's important for a woman to have, even if it takes a small number of children, but to give them full safety, a lot of attention, because her investment in childbirth is much more concrete, much more dangerous, she can even lose her life during pregnancy or childbirth, while men have a much simpler instinct as far as these things are concerned, which is to pass on their genetic code. So they're interested in having more kids, just where are they now? Then, if you're looking at the side of self-awareness about the current situation of the world, overcrowding, environmental moments, sometimes it's also blocking whether it's good to have five, six, seven children, if the country's overpopulated, is that it's not our country and our country. What's interesting and what you've all noticed is that families with lower education earlier have children and have more children. What was the logic of the family before, why did they give birth to more children, a simple family, and why less today? I'll have more children, one for the army, one for the country, one for the priest, one for the priest, if any smarter child might be a teacher, a doctor, as far as girls are concerned one will be a nun, the other will be a craftswoman, a cook, a tailor, and the one who cares will be close to me to nursing me when I'm old. There was no pension fund. The families, the society thought so, provided themselves. Don't put it all on your wife, it's your wife's fault, and it's not ethical today, it's not thinking. She used to think that way because she secured herself that way. Today we think differently. Today, practically all that weight I've been counting on, being both a soldier and a doctor and a pop and a teacher and a nun and a tailor and taking care of us falls for one or two kids. A heavy burden for that child. So he should move forward, have his own career, and nurse his parents. There are, however, some potentials. If we think about it, and a lot of girls said it themselves, waiting for their parents to retire and then watch the kids, maybe the state should think that way, the government to think that way, the ministry. Perhaps it should enable parents of a young couple who will have children to participate, that they too can choose, or that a mother can choose if she wants to return to a job that may provide her with a higher salary for her family, promotion, career, and that her parents or one of her parents take maternity leave. So, grandmas and blankets to be recognized as bearers of maternity leave, and that's how we solved the problem and who's going to look after the child and who's going to raise him and how they're going to raise him, and at the same time, mothers can continue some of their lives that are important to them too. Young women should have the advantage of employment, not the employer watching, yeah, you're young, single or newly married, you'll be pregnant in a few months, you'll be pregnant, so you'll be on maternity leave, you're not a desirable labor force. There you should see what the potential is, how some of the employers might be interested in taking advantage of young women. And that's how we stimulated them again, so he's got a job, he's got a chance to think about progeny. Another important thing is that at the end of the maternity leave, they can return to their jobs, at least with partial working hours. And that's something. Then, other social measures - extended school stay, a larger number of kindergartens, entertainment sites, is all state and society can provide for a woman. As for staying in schools, we talked a lot about having few children, that suddenly the number of teachers is in excess. Maybe that's where we could take advantage of them, so schools are where your homework is done and your mother's less burdened. School meal, one cup of milk and one cooked meal for every child, believe me, and it's a big help and very practical. Further, favourable excursions, vacations, especially for families with more children. Finally, this proposal is positive, and the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will support this law in the voting day, with the fact that again we want to initiate social dialogue on this, to involve as many people as possible to say their opinions, to be creative and to find a better solution together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7838	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the United Pensioners' Group of MPs, "Tri P" Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7839	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Citizens of Serbia, today when we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children, we should remind ourselves that about ten years ago, in fact in 2012, when we adopted the Amendment and Supplement of the Health Protection Act, after a long period of time, this Assembly began to take care of the family with children. The congregation composition of the convocation at that time was similar to that of today. At that time, on the proposal to amend and supplement the Health Care Act, the PUPS submitted an amendment to a member of the law that regulates a child's supplement, which stated that the full amount of salary has been paid to all maternity care families, which was not the case until then. The large majority of the amendment has been accepted, thus treating the foster parents in a better way. When we talk about this law today, I would like to stress that the PUPS parliamentary group "Tri P" in the voting day will give its support for the adoption of this bill, as well as the other law that is in this debate. When the Law on Financial Assistance for families with children was passed a few years ago, he marked an important step in helping society’s parents cope more easily with the usual problems most of us face when new family members arrive in the world. Normally, the vast majority of us had that experience. I do not believe that someone has challenged the very essence of this law, or good will, as well as the obligation of the state to help in proportion to its possibilities. On the other hand, the fact that the implementation of certain legal provisions has shown that they are in practice creating certain gaps and resulting in effects that are essentially contrary to the spirit of this law. It can be understood that the legitimate dissatisfaction of certain categories of parents who, by applying some of the provisions of this law, have in fact remained unjustly deprived of certain attributes that they were really meant to belong to. On the other hand, it must be known that one law cannot predict and regulate absolutely all the potential situations to which it applies, as well as that there is no society in the world in which the economic cost of parenting and raising children is completely broken down into the state budget and social contributions, but that this is, above all, not an exclusive obligation and the right of parents before each other. Given that the Constitutional Court has previously responded and has put certain provisions of this law into effect, I think it is a good thing that this is in front of us and that we have a chance to work it out so that such failures don't happen anymore. In this respect, the most important change in Article 14 of the existing legal text, which has been implemented by the Constitutional Court, is that the new revision of the text in this Article provides that the monthly amount of the salary is more in no way, under any circumstances less than the minimum earnings established on the day of the start of the exercise of the right. In addition, Article 17 also respects the decision of this body, which provides that the rights under this law will also be possible for women who are farmers, and the restrictions that existed for certain categories of potential users who have already realised other types of social benefits, i.e. social security. We have often talked about restoring and reviving Serbia's village, but without the benefits we need to focus on the women of the villages, which are the main bearers of the process, we will hardly get far. That is why it is important for women who work and live in the country to view themselves equally compared to those who live and work in cities. Unfortunately, this case has never been before, but if we really want to give women full attention, then all women must be treated the same, regardless of the place of life or the work they do. Another group of amendments and additions to this law make improvements that further improve the position of potential users. Starting on January 1st, 2022 will increase the maximum amount of compensation from three to five average earnings in Serbia. In Article 22, certain corrections have been made to enable the payment of eligibility to be made for the fifth child in certain specific situations of the death of earlier newborns. And here perhaps you should consider that in the perspective of giving some kind of help to every fifth child, which doesn't have to be as high as for third and fourth, but it will mean a certain recognition of the state for both these mothers and fathers. For these purposes, it will be necessary to allocate a slightly larger amount of funds in the republican budget, but I do not think such expenditure has been spent in any way. A moment ago, at the conclusion of a previous colleague on the conduct of a survey in her environment, we get similar answers in both women and men. Young women, young girls can't find a suitable partner, but that's what young boys and young men say. I just don't think that's the reason and that the reasons are completely different. If we in our times or in some previous period have managed to find our partners, I don't think there's any reason why we can't find certain partners in the current modern society. So mostly in cafes, we see a group of young people in restaurants or we see a group of women who don't pay attention to each other, they do their own. The second law in today's debate is the Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion with the Republic of Singapore. There's not much to say. It is certainly good that these agreements are made with as many countries in the world, because this creates more favourable business environments for investors and investment, and this is particularly important when it comes to a state like Singapore, which is economically quite influential. I would particularly like to highlight Article 4 of this Agreement, which very detailedly regulates the obligations and rights of the resident of the Contracting State. I would also point out Article 18 concerning pensions, which reads: “Depending on the provisions of Article 19(2) of this Treaty, pensions and other similar incomes paid to a resident of a Contracting State on the basis of an earlier working relationship are taxed only in that State.” This has just been regulated that there is no double taxation, which is certainly a newspaper and it is certainly favourable for people. Since we consider it to be good legal proposals, both points 1 and 2 respectively, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will give its full support for their adoption in the voting day. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session in the voting day and vote in favour. Dear Mr. Minister, I think we've heard a lot of good things today, a lot of new proposals that could be introduced into some new proposals, amendments and additions to the law in the coming period. Certainly, both you and your team will benefit from what you heard and that, as you have already announced, in the following year, there is the possibility of re-changes and additions, to sort of install them and to do in an appropriate way to make women, pregnant women, maternity parents, young girls have no argument to say – we do not have a partner or we do not have the opportunity to find a partner. It should certainly be thought first of all about women living in the country, who want to stay within their family in the country, to create a family in the country, to find special conditions for women, or young girls in the country, because they are basically carriers of non-migration from the village, i.e. not leaving the village. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7840	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7841	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, in fact, the category of mothers, current and future, the population issue in Serbia has been open for a long time, it is subject to a number of strategic documents, scientific research, analysis, and legislative activities. The discussions that preceded me were really more than quality and pointed to all the problems we face as a society and it's important to hear them. What do I want to say specifically? When you talk about this problem from a woman's position, it's kind of easier for you because you understand the problem. That's why we supported each other as long as the discussions lasted. I cannot look back on the discussion of counterpart Natasha and fellow Emesa, because both have pointed out what the fundamental problems of women in Serbia are. However, what is also important to say? It is important to say that today we also heard discussions from the corners of men, which were not skopartiical, were not narrow-political and were not in that goal which is usually capable of being in parliament, which is to profit on such an important topic. This is an important topic. Why is it important to the profiteers? Because, according to statistics, 51% of society is made up of women, and that is a beautiful potential. But there's one definition of a woman who says she's not gullible, especially when it's a topic. There is room here for different views and the bill's proposal and the fall of birth, as a major danger for Serbia at the moment, however, in order to discuss this, we must make one historical review first of all and say that Serbia faces decades with the issue of birth reduction. It's nothing new. Serbia's depopulation is the result of various social and historical circumstances and, let's just remind ourselves that this might be the ideal moment to say that Serbia lost over a million and 200,000 people in World War I, that we lost almost as much in World War II and that it is perfectly clear that this terrible demographic loss is not easy to compensate after 70 or 100 years, and we will probably still have problems. Our people were killed for their freedom and for our freedom of environment, and we were killed in Europe's defense, and it's not my first time to say it, and it's twice annoying. I will just take a brief turn from this terribly important topic and look back on what is the current pressure on Serbia, on what is unacceptable in the healthy world, which is that you have a statement from a Croatian foreign minister suggesting that Serbia adopt a declaration of crime in Srebrenica, from the position of members of the Croatian people, who have genocide in their blood. I have full personal responsibility for the sentence - that genocide is in their blood. They don't have to book it to someone else, but I can't not tell it. The result of genocide against Serbs, in every sense, of that word, and even of the fact that we have really voluntarily defended ourselves and Europe. Inevitability is also a tragedy that makes us in this situation today when it comes to demographics, when it comes to Natalie. What's the big deal? We recognized this problem and set out to solve it. You have a difficult task, Minister, this is not a small problem at all, and this is not easy to solve at all, but for your shade it was easier than it was for Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic at the moment when she was the minister without a portfolio in charge of this problem from the position from which Serbia first needed to regain consciousness, that the problem exists. Then recognize all the problems that exist on the subject. Then lead them to the legal framework that we've brought... Chairman, I appreciate that my colleagues have something more interesting than this law, so I ask you to ensure peace so that I can speak, because I can't outsmart myself with anyone. Thank you. So we recognized him first with the formation of the Government in 2012, so we brought in a series of legal acts that allowed us to overcome this problem and what we are doing today is improving the legal solution in order to remove the shortcomings shown by practice in the application of this law. There's been talk of what's going on and where this law is changing and how much it's going to help. However, I will return to something that says that the causes of the white plague, i.e. total depopulations, are different. They were analysed in the Strategy for Incentives of Birth adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, as some roof document, I would say, for cloning measures in the area of population policy and that same year, the innovative Act on Financial Support for the Family with children who had greater scope was also adopted. The measure of this law, which gives a positive effect, is a parent supplement that represents support for the family, which is achieved by the mother at birth, the first, second, third and fourth children, which is said by her colleague Emesha, there is no need to repeat it, but if we analyze the statistics on birth, they say that parents were most difficult to decide on the birth of another child, or that the number of second-born children was reduced, which again leads to the story that was told by her colleague Emesha, which is that parents, or mothers, are first of all, are exposed to some social phenomena that stopped them from giving birth to the first child and discouraged themselves to commit themselves to another child. Whatever the problem is called, it is reflected through the position of women, mothers and employees and unemployed, as well as those discussed by fellow Stosic, and these are women in the country who are engaged in agriculture. I don't mean here exclusively to the economic position of women, but also to the overall social position of a woman who should lead her to a phase to decide that she will be a mother and I would draw attention to what is very often neglected, which is so-called. The psychological cost of parenting. The psychological price of a child is economically immeasurable and it would be rude to talk about it, it's just such a category. But it is a subjective experience of investment, giving up or on which frustrations are primarily women because parenting in Serbia is primarily and primarily and mostly equal with motherhood and with intensive motherhood, which means unquestionably and enormous engagement and can be said and exhausting women for their loved ones above all, for children, wives, households, today more and more for their parents or relatives who need help. All this family work, which someone also talked about, has the most common consequence of frequent job absences, job giving up, job reduction and productivity, reduction of earnings, fatigue, poorer quality of women's work compared to men, and much and far less chance of progress compared to men. So the psychological cost of a child and following the stress that parenthood causes are those of economically immeasurable categories that often stand behind decisions not to give birth to another child. It's somewhere, I'm afraid, or it could be recognized as one of the elements, but we have to say that the psychological cost of parenting and family pays both men and fathers, because they suffer social pressure to be feeders in social circumstances when it's harder and harder to achieve it. It is understood in the patriarchal system that a man is the one who provides material safety to the family. I made this review completely aware because we also heard these views of young women who are unequivocally accurate, in which somewhere partners, I even have some reaction from colleagues who said – how you think you're giving birth to children without men. It's not a subject, really, here, that's a difficult situation for both of us. What seems to me, even more important, perhaps even most important, is another problem that parenting faces, and it relies on that Law on banning discrimination, which is that we have a discriminatory behavior that sometimes becomes dominant in the definition of youth for parenting. Often inadmissible discrimination from employers comes from future mothers, families come, young mothers come, especially those who are employed for a certain period of time, and then, after the maternity benefit, they are mostly fired. This is an innumerable number of examples. I think we've recognised the problem as a society, but we haven't come to a solution yet and here we are, a task for all of us. It is an obligation to fight this form of discrimination against parenting team before it is entirely contrary to our efforts to help both as a legislative and executive authority, that Serbia's birth rate is indeed greater. I'm saying all of this because we've heard one idea that I completely agree with, which is that the Women's Parliamentary Network and I'm going to try to respond as one of the co-ordinators, first of all, in the absence of a colleague of Christmas who chaires the Committee on Culture, which is that we have not a small percentage of young women who are supposed to become mothers in the congregation. I think it's most practical from there to hear, this is an occupation that may be the most difficult environment, a difficult circumstance, not to be resented by young MPs. This topic will be followed by my esteemed colleague, Ugljesa Markovic, who is a young man, the father of two twin sons. So I have no intention of apostrophe here that someone's problem is bigger than the other one, but I want to leave first of all the possibility that de facto exists, I just appreciate that they may not know that there is a woman's parliamentary network is a network of all MPs in parliament. All of your ideas, all of your assumptions, all of your problems after all, is enough to say anything about them only out loud, and then we'll all sit down and find a solution together. So I think that the Women's Parliamentary Network can play a role primarily in this part of social dialogue, which is true about the ministry that is now formed and is doing this. This is the step of this government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the plan of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who has really recognised all the key issues and assigned resolutions where Serbia has never had them. We are also pleased to talk today about this law with the Registrar, not more without the Ministry or with the Ministry without portfolios in charge of this area. So, this law is part of the overall social care of children and it aims to encourage the birth of children, to provide the best conditions for meeting the needs of children and contributes to improving the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children, to support families with disabilities, which is also an important category, i.e. disability, as well as children without parental ageing. Therefore, this law represents the definition of a country which, in the field of social policy, including demographic needs, is also an important instrument of population policy. When it comes to children with special needs, i.e. with disabilities, we had a previous meeting, you will be remembered by a distinguished colleague, who was an MP, if I am not mistaken for the SDPS, who was the mother of a child with special needs, and we have heard countless times how difficult it is and how not recognized by those parents. As long as they didn't have the incentive in the part where they needed more time off, because their child requires, come on, it's rude to say more attention, yes, and that, unfortunately, too. These amendments to the law improve that to a certain extent. At this stage, he is a law for which the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will absolutely vote, but I am sure that we will have the changes very soon, because re-application will show that there is something more to be added. Why do I say that? Because I mean, not that there are shortcomings, but maybe we misjudged certain categories that would define themselves. What I particularly like, and what I would especially like to praise, is a solution that concerns the provision of mothers who, before birth, were farmers, the right to other birth benefits, the care of a child, and the care of a child. Then, this bill introduces the possibility for consumers to make profits during their absence from work for special care of the child and other child care benefits based on the special care of the child to use the right to add to the assistance and care of the other person. The solution so far has not allowed parents who have children with special needs, i.e. with difficulties in the development of law enforcement and in other people's care to obtain the rights to other fees under this law. This is a good change of law, somewhere relying on this story I was talking about. Another good news and the fact that users are now also entitled to a cash compensation for unemployment, so also an unemployed parent to get an expert opinion on the child's health status, in order to extend the right to be granted on the basis of unemployment over the period of extended child care. A significant newspaper in this law is also the introduction of the immunisation of children as necessary conditions for the right to a parental supplement and perhaps here a suggestion of a treasure. If I'm a good interpreter, and I appreciate that I am, when an older child is not immunized, he loses his right to report a child and a parent for compensation. Perhaps we could think about one of these decisions, considering the Law on Immunisation that defacto commits. I have no doubt that from my discussion I would not conclude that I am an opponent of immunization, I just ask that we may be able to see if, Minister, it is not under the circumstances that this is a period behind us before we pass this law, whether we may have been wrong about a category or maybe this should be a happier solution somehow? I'm not saying we shouldn't think about it, but maybe we should find a happier solution. In essence, when this law is observed, the proposed text shows that certain issues of the current law are reflected in a way that enables the state to better and more significant support for families with children. This also confirms the country's serious approach to achieving the strategic objectives of inciting birth, i.e. in the fight against white plague, because if we are getting smaller, if our population is getting older, then all other development goals are unfortunately in vain, unless we allow someone else, except us, to implement them. There is another proposal that I really think is necessary and that should be paid attention to. In the period behind us, the time of Kovida-19, the pandemic that has changed, seems to me to be a picture of the whole world and demographic and economic, we have an obligation more, I think, to mothers who have become mothers, right in that period. It was supposed to be brave, so at the time Kovida-19 decided on parenting. I don't want to bid today on the position of consciousness that it's not always easy to implement, every idea can be human, but it's hard to fit in with what the budget is, but think about how to repay the births at the time of Kovida-19. I appreciate that these women deserve our support, and I appreciate that we might be able to repay ourselves in a way that we can extend maternity care to them in 60 days, as one measure, completely ignore my proposal, but pay attention to the category. It seems to me that this number is not small and it seems to me that for every respect, under the circumstances that we all lived that fear of Kovida-19 and that indeed this uncertainty affected our quality of life. At that moment it is defined for such a brave move and the decision is for respect. After all, it is an obligation to the Serbian mother category, the category that she says, if I am not mistaken, and I should not be wrong, at the time of World War I, at a time when retailer 90% and more men were outside the territory of the Serbian state, the birth rate was lowest, but after the war ended, recovered. What's the big deal? It is important to say that the Serbian mother in the most difficult period when she was left alone on earth, defended both the country, the people, honor and dignity. The Serbian mother also has heirs in these mothers who became mothers in 2020 and 2021 and is a good role model for all those mothers we expect to improve their demographic image in 2030 and 2035. We have a common goal, it seems to me that no one in the O.R. has spoken counter to what I said. What I have seen from the reasoning of this proposal is that the implementation of this law will increase the coverage of users, with additional resources from the budget being allocated. I have a number here right now, but I wouldn't bid on it. It is important to say that it confirms in its own way what the state is considering as priorities at the moment. All the above is more than a strong reason that the SPS, as an authentic left, not only votes for this law, but also helps in implementing and perhaps supplementing or changing for the better tomorrow, all of us together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7842	Thank you. For our children, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7843	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will certainly support for our children the amendments and additions of the Law on Family Support with Children because the objective of amending and supplementing the Law is precisely to materially support parents at the economic cost of supporting children, but it aims at the welfare of children, i.e. to ensure that every child, regardless of what kind of family comes from, has the most favourable and optimal conditions for living and growing up, for proper psychophysical development and there is the obligation of the state and in a secure manner to meet, precisely through these legal changes. I must point out that the motto of the Serbian Progressive Party is that life must win death. The motto of the Serbian Progressive Party is that it is necessary to correct the natural growth, that it is necessary that we have children to maintain and preserve our country which we have acquired and inherited from our ancestors and our right and obligation to hand over to our children and grandchildren. What I have to point out, and I've already said is that the demographic question that is affecting all spheres of social life. Of course, the demographic issue also requires a multidisciplinary approach. But what's true, which is that since the 1950s, Serbia has met with a negative natural origin, and this problem has not been brought to the table before Alexander Vukic and tried to find and find solutions just to leave our country to our children, our children living in this country, earning, creating their family and young people, also leaving the country to their children. That's what I'm saying for the reason that Serbia during the 20th century, of course, lost its population in wars. In World War I, the Great War, Serbia lost 30% of its population. Over a million and 200 people were killed. Sixty percent of those soldiers who went to participate in the Great War struggles didn't come home or come back as disabled. Almost every house in Serbian villages saw a black banner as a sign that someone in the Great War had given his life for freedom from that house. We didn't get any better in World War II when we also lost a large number of residents, over a million. What I want to point out is that in World War II, unfortunately, in the area of the Independent State of Croatia, we lost many children and that of those children who were in their mother's belly, to children of older age. We lost children in concentration camps in the independent state of Croatia and these were the only concentration camps for Serbian, Jewish and Roma children in the fascist German area. That's what we've never talked about before. The first to talk about the injuries of children in Jasenovac from 1941 to 1945 was Alexander Vukic. He also wanted to speak of it as a statesman, as a responsible statesman to his people, according to his ancestors, but also showed responsibility for the future. It's part of our identity. You have to learn about it in schools, and we need to know that. Unfortunately, the 1999 bombing didn't miss the children either. In 78 days of criminal bombings by 19 countries of the world, led by the NATO Pact, 78 days each day, one child and not just one and a half more, such as the New Market two in the arms and arms of their parents. But regardless of the wars, to the great losses of the population, what is not good and that no one has raised to Alexander Vukic as a question of national importance, of national interest, as a question of survival for us as a people, a question of the survival of the state, no one has raised that question before Alexander Vukic. In addition, the fact that coming to power was first formed by the Ministry without portfolios dealing with demographics, and then in 2020, a special ministry was formed, and this is the Ministry of Family and Children, whose head you, Mr. Minister, are the leader and who should in and how comprehensive the family and children are concerned. Of course the demographic question isn't just a question for your ministry. It's also a question for the Ministry of Education, it's also a question for the Ministry of Health, it's a question for the Ministry of Sports, but I have to point out what we inherited by 2012, when it comes to those areas that and how they have an impact on the proper growth and development of children and on those actions that concerned the material payouts of maternity and pregnant women. I must point out that by 2012 in the city of Belgrade, national money robber Dragan Gilas had taken from pregnant women 400 million dinars, kidnapped 6.1 billion dinars, remained in debt to the most vulnerable categories of the population of 124 million to pay off one-off money, and these one-time cash payments were given to those residents to meet the existential, or basic living needs. So, they weren't paid those fees that were prescribed by law. He remained in their debt, for he was not interested in pregnant women, nor in maternity, nor in children. If so, it shows that in Belgrade's most elite part, in the town of Pionska, he had just usurped the space that was intended for building a playground and for a child's stay in order to build a Big Brother's house and, of course, to acquire the first million from the construction of that house, trading with his seconds. Are they the first, I don't know, but I do know that 619m euros earned them while running power in Belgrade. Also, I must point out that Dragan Gilas, for example, when it comes to kindergartens, there were 10,000 children on his waiting list in Belgrade who couldn't enroll in kindergartens because there was no room. There was no place because kindergartens were not built or perhaps opened only at the time of the campaign, when they were to be photographed by Dragan Gilas to manipulate the citizens again, so he opened a kindergarten in the Municipality of Zvezda, which, of course, was not connected to city drinking water at all. That's how Dragan Gilas worked, leaving a debt in the Belgrade city's budget of one billion and 200m euros and in debt to every citizen in Belgrade for 700 euros. What were we doing since 2012, when we came to power? We know that since 2014, as robbers and tycoons have left the country completely destroyed and devastated, we have had to implement fiscal consolidation measures. At the time, the prime minister was Alexander Vukic. Those measures were difficult and painful, but they were only possible. It is precisely these measures that led to the country's economic recovery, which took place four years in a row of budget surpluses, that Serbia and its pandemic were the best in terms of economic growth, i.e. that it had the smallest drop in 2020, that it had, or provided for, its citizens four types of fully free vaccines, to which citizens could be vaccinated against covids. I must also point out that mortality in some countries, such as Spain, was up to 30%, that mortality in the United States was 22% and that mortality, according to data published by the Republic Institute in Serbia, was, of course, large and significantly lower for us. Also, I have to point out that for this time of government and how we worked on building kindergartens and not only in Belgrade, where 24 kindergartens are to be built by 2023, so there will be absolutely no more waiting lists. We worked gardens and built in the interior of the Republic of Serbia. I'm from Pryboy. In Priboj, the preschool institution Neven is fully reconstructed, adapted, designed façade, built carpentry, made boiler room and every child attending kindergarten has optimal, safe and safe conditions for stay in kindergarten. Also, I must point out that yellow robbers and tycoons in character and the work of Drgan Djilas and Pajtic also robbed children distracted in development, so for example, only through the castle "Hetherland" of children distracted in development have they kidnapped 157 million. Of course that castle was never built, but the money was never returned. They were taken by those who filled their pockets with national money, and their accounts were distributed through various white world destinations and tax havens. What I have to point out is that by coming to power, especially after 2016, we worked on raising, building, adapting living rooms for children distracted by development just to support the parents of these children. While the children are in the living room, they can seek employment, and of course we didn't just do it in Belgrade. Also, I'll list Priboj, where I'm going, there are two living rooms for children in Priboj, and this is a living room for children with developmental disorders and a living room for children suffering from cerebral and polio. Also, I must point out that, apart from the living rooms, in Belgrade, there is also a development of services that means parents who have children with difficulties. I prefer to say with developmental difficulties rather than with disability. A new service was introduced called ‘resent of services’. She was introduced to Nis. It is a matter of parents leaving their children there during the day, but also during the weekend and, of course, they can stay for several days to gather new strength and to show them that they care and provide support to such parents. Of course, all the measures taken towards children, people with disabilities, and then when they're at the highest stage won't be enough, because it's a particularly sensitive, especially vulnerable group, and we've been working all this time to socialize these children, but also to support their parents, to facilitate their parenting. I also want to say, as for young people, that at the time of Dragan Gilas, youth unemployment in Serbia was 50%. The general unemployment in Serbia was 27%. They were only known for raising public debt. Public debt was 79%, and that means that in every way possible they owed generations to come. What I want to point out is that youth unemployment has been reduced today. It remains large and is around 22%, in European countries it is 15%, but the overall unemployment of the population has been reduced. It was single-digit and for the first time, during 2020, the unemployment of the population, just at the time of the covid pandemic, was at a historic minimum and it was 7.5%. At the end of the year, unemployment was 9.5%. I must point out that the government responsible and headed by the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, is investing huge money in infrastructure projects. All these infrastructure projects improve the quality of life of every citizen, and hence the quality of life of every child. I must point out that the 2025 plan provided 14 billion euros for Serbia's new face. It is a complete budget, but 700m euros are also foreseen for young people, 500m euros to help resolve their housing issue and another 200m euros to open a reproductive health counselling facility to help with out-of-body fertilisation and other forms of support and assistance to keep young people in our country and to create their offspring here. I must point out that the principle of dual education was introduced in 2017. In this way, young people get to their qualifications as soon as possible, acquire knowledge, skills, competences. They spend one piece in school, one part in practice in the employer, 70% of these young people are employed in these private companies. It is, of course, the possibility that the sooner they leave their parents, the sooner they become left alone, the sooner they create their family, of course, give birth to children. Also, I have to point out that the health care system, the University Children's Clinic in Tirshaw, was built in 1924. It is one of the oldest clinics most famous, not only from Serbia, but from the whole region. The clinic was in such a state that the facade was falling off, that the conditions inside were completely inadequate, that the interior was sneezing, that the gutters were bumpy, that they were submerged under the foundations of the building, so that it threatened the threat of the total collapse of Tirshaw. Of course we were able to reconstruct the university children's clinic. The reconstruction was completed on Vidovdan 2019. The most modern ultrasound apparatus has been obtained, magnetic resonance for children, a brand-new Angel Hall, a new equipped pediatric wards, surgical departments, etc., and all in order to maintain the health of children, in order to ensure proper diagnostics and for proper treatment. Parliament group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, support this law which is one of the tools and mechanisms for improving the material position of families with children, but will continue to follow the policy of Alexander Vukic, the policy of prosperity and progress in all areas of the Republic of Serbia, so that all citizens in it will be satisfied, because peace and stability... Alexander Vukic, as a serious statesman, is working on it. That's unquestionable. Economic progress is unquestionable. What's questionable is the birth of children. We must also work on it through raising awareness, for I do not know three more noble words than words – mother, child and love. I know that love when it divides and multiplys it spreads and strengthens, especially when it is shared with its children. In that name lived Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7844	Thank you. We're going to go to the list of signed up for the word. The word is Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7845	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Financial Support for the Family with the Children. It's a very important question. The importance of this law is what my colleagues were talking about before me. What is good is that this is about amending and supplementing the law on some of the shortcomings that have been shown in practice, and by the trace of what has started to be applied, i.e. since 1 July 2018, and this is very important. So when the government recognizes the issue of lack of own acts that have been brought in and in this direction is ready to react, it is something that is certainly commendable. The question of family, social support to the family should actually be looked even deeper and essentially dealt with, because the economic segment, financial support to the family is just one of family support segments, but we as a society must work to promote the values of the family itself, the values of the mother and the value of children within the family itself. In that sense, I am very happy and the fact that it seems to me that, through this supplement, a special accent has been placed on families that have children with developmental difficulties, some kind of disability, more severe illnesses, or whatever it is we address. So, we'll all agree that giving birth, raising children in today's social environment is not easy at all. With all the support and the state and the benefits and everything else it is a very demanding and responsible role and only those who are fully aware of it actually decide on this kind of responsible vision and social positions and parenting and everything else. We can assume that the challenges and difficulties of families with disabilities or any type of illness are greater. How much more power, financial resources, willpower, the desire to take that child out and bring, let's say, to some normal life flows as far as possible. What I would like to ask the Honorable Minister, in your presentation, is that you mentioned the child's special care benefits to go to the fifth year of a disabled child, in which sense I think you should continue to think about some more serious help to such children and after five years of age - for what? Well, some disability, diseases are such a guy that they literally last a lifetime. The question is what after that fifth year of a child, especially if it's a child that's first or second after birth, so let's just say it doesn't fall under the parent's allowance domain for up to 10 years as we have it today. That's one thing. In this regard, it would be very important to step forward in some future amendments and additions to the law, since this segment has gone so far. What I would like to point out, therefore, is support for mothers, or families, especially mothers who have given birth to more than four children. We have a question of a parental supplement that from July 1st 2018 to the third and fourth children, and increased by certainly for the first and second children, but I especially want to highlight the incomes mothers receive for the third and fourth children - 12,000 and 18,000, respectively, and this is something that is very important for families and all those who receive this kind of help. However, I think that legal solutions and that as a general society we have not promoted mothers who have given birth to more than four children. I read somewhere an argument that the World Health Organization feels it is not healthy to have more than four children, and from these recommendations, legal acts do not go beyond that. I think a woman who, even though she's aware of having five and more children, takes such a risk on herself, on the other hand, we see that some of her colleagues mentioned the problem of a second-born child, that mostly married couples or mothers decide to give birth to one child, is already a problem with another child, what about women who have decided to give birth to more than four children? I believe that these women should simply be declared heroes, satisfactory financial and each other given to them in terms of some way, models, whether it will be paid regularly, whether there will be some financial status that they achieve. I think if we could do some statistics or research on what areas the more numerous families are in. I think we'll find that these are mostly rural families and families that are currently facing other challenges. To appreciate such determination, the courage of a woman, who, in addition to having so many children, has other burdens in terms of physical work and everything else, I believe that as a society, we would show a high degree of awareness and responsibility if we went in that direction. So this is some of the recommendations for all of us, for all those involved in the decision-making process to deal more actively with this issue. Let's say, in the countries of Western Europe that are highly developed, it seems to me or at least from the findings of our diaspora that lives there, that the woman who gives birth, now I don't know whether six or seven children, let's say the state solves a permanent housing issue, assigns them a house, assigns them an apartment, these are very important incentives, so that we need to be motivated in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7846	Thank you. The word is Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7847	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, it's a good course for both you and your ministry. It's a good amendment to this law. I had the opportunity to speak to Mrs. Tatjan Macur, who, on behalf of the Mothers' Association, had the effect here that some things should be carried out as objections to these changes and complemented them. to work to meet changes and additions with some other things to avoid discrimination against some other categories of foster mothers and women who raise children, and even parents. So in the presentation of my esteemed predecessors, I saw that they had that meeting, too. I think that's good. I don't have time to deal with these details right now. She delivered it to the Assembly, so I think she'll deliver it to your ministry. I would only draw attention to the fact that the distinguished predecessor also said that parenting supplement only to the fourth child is discriminatory compared to several-week-old families who have over four children. Of course, there is this information that WHO considers that it is not good for women’s health alone. However, WHO has shown unseriousness in this pandemic and in all other things, so that I would be very reserved according to their views. I want to talk about something else. It is no secret that I share a similar idea system of values with many people in this room, regardless of which I do not belong to the same political organization, and in that sense, this law and similar laws are good at that the whole government is as defined as your ministry and that all ministers are in your ideal background I would most likely vote for this government. However, I have a problem with this government, as well as with the SNS, which has enormous ambivalence in the messages it sends, and they are very important in terms of birth because, as research has shown, financial reasons and financial support are important in deciding to have children. That's when people are the most vulnerable and then they have a problem getting instructions on this adventure, they still have no experience, and when they do, financial support is needed. In all other situations, it's already becoming the second subject, and that's the psychological cost of a child. So we come up with what you're saying, and that's a question of consciousness about what our system of values are, what we're worth as a society, and as a people we define. We are in trouble here because the same government that has such laws that cannot be challenged, which should be supported and be even more intense and stronger has also the Law on Gender Equality and Prohibition of Discrimination. We have talked about how much this has done and what chaos has led to Western societies, how much it violates the role of both parents and male-female roles in society, how much chaos it has made and how much it has led to someone playing with the future of the people and not only of our people, but also of the European peoples, and we are already looking west at these European peoples, we can see what these societies are turning into and that they are not like anything very nice. One of the things you don't know, and it's interesting, and the consequence of the aggressive feminist ideology that prevails there is that now in France it strengthens the movement of so-called. Autonomous Men, i.e. singles. They're not homosexuals. They're people who don't want to play a role, not a father, not a parent, or a husband for the simple reason they can't get along in those roles anymore. We are in a situation where when we adopt the Law on Gender Equality and open space for all the chaos that will take place, we will come to the point that at one point after all these emancipations that are allegedly planted by women, and eventually turn them into slaves and work and capital and families, we will bring them into the impossible mission to be better than men in that role where men are naturally biologically ready to respond, and at the same time they require them to keep the female role, and bring them into a situation to participate in the gender war, which is done in the West. There is no longer equality, but a war of genders, and then we realize that what is the whole history of human civilization was that the natural tendency of a man to be single and not to take responsibility for a child and a woman is now collapsing and bringing to a situation that in such a society of the family will cease to exist as a community, as the basis of any social community. There will be no solidarity. There won't be a connection. There will be no possibility of you relying on the clear social roles of your father, mother, parents, teachers and all of this is collapsing. Then we return to the fact that the consequence of this ambivalence that we have at the moment, and the consequence of the SNS authorities and its unexplored idea Corps, is that the EU's policy continues to have no alternative, because this road means going into it, and that there does not mean 30-40% of the divided marriages, but destroying marriage and family as the basic cell of society. Until it's resolved in our heads, in the SNS, in our government, we can do laws like this, and they'll be, uh, sorry for the hard expression, just making up dead people.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7848	Thank you, Mr. Glissic. So, if I understand correctly, you've made it sound like you're against the law, you're actually not, you're in favor of this law, you're against some other law that has nothing to do with this, but it's SNS' fault. Okay. The word has an authorised representative of PG Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7849	Thank you. I want to point out that the SNS is not sending any contradictory messages to the citizens. The Serbian Progressive Party and President Aleksandar Vukic, what they send to Serbian citizens, is true and only true. Thanks to the truth that the President of the Republic sends to its citizens, no matter what she may be, and the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic said just two days ago here in the National Assembly that the data concerning natural society is devastating. That's true, the truth shouldn't be hidden from the citizens. Citizens precisely because Aleksandar Vukic keeps telling them the truth, in the latest elections for President of the Republic, they gave him two million support. So we don't send any contradictory messages to citizens, we only send messages of truth. The truth of the citizens should and must meet and there is Alexander Vukic as a statesman for whom the Supreme Judge is the voice of the people and the will of the people, always telling them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7850	Thank you. Let's move on. (Vladan Glisic: Replica. I don't know what you're doing, Mr. Glissic, but you don't have a basis, you're not mentioned once. Alexander Vukic has been mentioned by representatives of a parliamentary group named Alexander Vukic, so he has nothing to do with you. Mr. Laketice, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7851	I thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have come to the floor today because I find the subject extremely important. The second reason is because as chairman of the Health and Family Committee, I think I should give a court that is bound by today's law. It is always a pleasure to discuss in this home laws regarding regulation of action that may be the most important in our country. What's particularly important is that this law of the state tries to regulate an area that is extremely sensitive. What I'm saying is that, first of all, this law is trying to improve the economic and financial status of the foster parents who are employed or who have a working relationship. I would point out, and I would say a little bit more about that in the later part of the discussion, that it is particularly important to have that effect on the families that are farmers. In addition, by reading this bill, I must admit that the law is fundamentally done and that it represents one, I would say, prototype of a quality law. Why am I saying this? Because it is not only a fruit of work, but only the work of bureaucrats in the ministry, but it is a fruit of accepting and implementing the ideas of those organisations that care about children and families and whose work is based on them. I would mention a few of them such as "Moms are the law", "Parent", "Bebac", "Bravo for Moms", "Serbia in the Movement", so all of those organisations that we mentioned in earlier times as very important about this issue. That is why today we really need to talk openly about this problem that weighs not only on Serbia, but on most of modern times. Unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia loses a city the size of Kickinda annually, loses more than 40,000 residents just because birth levels are significantly lower than the need for free reproduction. We have a big problem. So this problem, as Mr. Minister said, began after World War II, continued in the 1970s, to experience, I would say, the culmination of two thousand years when we had at one point, I think the 2006 data, that the birth rate was 30% lower than the basic need for basic reproduction. So that's something that's really dramatic. That's why I look at this law with such eyes that I realize that this is just one in a series of steps to try to increase the number of newborns. That's why our steps, I'm talking about the steps of the state, I'm talking about a political response, it needs to be meaningful, continuous, intense and the fruit of a detailed strategy. If we're talking about the aspect of the economy, I think our country is experiencing significant economic growth in these moments. We're also experiencing technological progress, an increase in productivity. It's only one, but not a small and not a slightly significant parameter affecting the growth, the birth of children. I also mention that our country is a leader in attracting foreign direct investment. It is something that should really impote all of us together, and on the other hand, we represent not only a regional leader because of the seriousness of the state, because of its size, but I would say that we have really good results in European frameworks. What's very significant, and what I would especially suggest is that we have to support motherhood and parenting as a state. Unfortunately, looking at this whole problem through history, over time, it seems to me that motherhood is lost somewhere. It seems to me that every young couple has a lot more so-called. Important topics, rather than parenting, and it seems to me that motherhood as such has been pushed into another plan. Also, the problems I perceive as significant in this common problem are modern life, the speed of life. These are primarily problems that lead to discrepancies and disproportionateness on one side of business obligations and professional tasks, and on the other hand to parenting and then delay family formation. Unfortunately, it also comes to the fact that some families are absolutely not formed for the rest of each individual's life, and remember, gentlemen, MPs, family is the core of society. Family is the essence and family is the place, the basic cell of the society in which new life arises. That's why I personally believe that as a state and as responsible individuals, we have to create an environment in which parents in a completely different way will make it easier to make decisions to have a child, whether it's a first, second, third or more children. That's why I'm saying again that it's the state that's responsible for allowing families, after having children, not to undermine the economic and social status of the family itself. It's no doubt the most important role of the state right now. It's just the adoption of this law, I'm going back to the very beginning, and that's the starting point, and I see just the adoption of this law as one significant attempt by the state to increase the number of newborn children, as a significant attempt by the state to allow families with children to have as much, as sustainable as possible, to say that economic segment, that there is no economic, or financial collapse of families that have children. This is particularly important for those families living in the country, for farmers, or families that are farmers. I, I don't know if you gentlemen know the MPs, what is the amount of the agricultural pension? What is the basis of agricultural insurance, and what was the compensation for families who had agricultural insurance, and how much is it going to be now? I think this law is good. That's why I absolutely support him in this segment of his that I've already highlighted. So the introduction of the lower limit of maternity leave compensation at minimum earnings is a great thing. And I'll say that here and everywhere. I will also say that this law carries several very important legal solutions that will not only help financial families but will facilitate the different procedures that we all know together are sometimes very complex and complex. For example, defining, carefully defining procedures concerning child's supplements and facilitating child's allowance for families who have so-called families. Single-parent families, where there's only one parent. It's something that's really commendable. This proposal, I absolutely support. In order not to owe for the next speakers to turn around in this house, I must say that when I sum up all the impressions about this law, I must say that I believe that it represents a very important step in the most important fight, which is the struggle that Serbia continues to give birth to both Tesla and Pupina and Milankovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7852	Thank you. The word is made by Vice-President Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7853	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Today, we have a new ministry dealing with family care is a clear sign that Serbia wants to fight for birth, that Serbia wants to fight for the preservation of the family. Today's statement by JS President Dragan Markovic Palma shows the readiness of the Unique Serbia to support and we will always support the strengthening of the Serbian family made up of father, mother and children. Unity Serbia has often talked in this high house about the need to strengthen and help families, because without a healthy family we cannot talk about any segment of society, there is no point. Here, yesterday we had, in this high house we discussed a set of laws on education and the president of Unity Serbia, Dragan Markovic Palma, pointed out in his presentation that Unique Serbia is taking care of young people and that at least 700 students visit Vienna every year. Where the Single Serbia has the opportunity to decide, we are trying to make the social programme of the Single Serbia as much as possible. We always cite the example of Jagodina, but we simply must do so because it is a good example where you can see, I can say freely, a single policy, a unity of social policy that implies equal care for all categories of the population, and it is particularly devoted to these concerns to children and young people. I come from the Kings, and I must say that many local self-governments, perhaps should look up to each other and organise themselves, that they are not waiting for help from either the Ministry or the Government. I come from Kraljev, that help for families with more children through a card called "Three Plus", which makes it easier for families with three and more children to pay for utility services, water, heating, etc. That action was joined by many private companies that recognized the importance of taking care of families. They are in harmony with their activities to provide various discounts and opportunities for these families to cost less life in the King. What bothers me, not only the King, but today I have heard the presentations of many colleagues from other cities, is the lack of kindergarten. I'll only tell you one thing, that's for example. in the King's power competition for enrollment of children in kindergarten and to e.g. for children aged two to four for the city of King who has over 120,000 inhabitants, there are only 23 seats. The king responded by starting to subsidise private kindergartens, but unfortunately for now, only one private kindergarten meets these conditions, and the city certainly wants to help to enroll as many children as possible and to get mothers who want to work and to financially strengthen their families, to meet. We also heard today how important this financial support is, but also the finances that bring both father and mother. I wouldn't agree here, I don't know which of my colleagues said you should have just asked your mothers about this law. I think we should ask both mothers and fathers for this law, because it's parents, it's a partnership. Without that partnership, there's no family. All this is important, because when we know that in Serbia's space demographic problems have been present for decades, they are the result of various social problems of economic, political and we know what processes our country has been going through for the last 50 years, that I haven't gone back many years, and the biggest demographic problems are emigration, the shift of age limits in the first marriage in men and women, the shift of age limits in the birth of the first child. Because we have a problem trying to convince our parents to have another child. I've been looking at some statistic, and it's a lot easier for parents to decide to have a third and fourth child than they do to give birth to another child. So I agree that this is a difficult process and that we need time to see all that we have adopted, that is, the population policy strategy in 2018, only in the next ten years will we see all these measures. I would only point out that 430 children were born more in the first year following the adoption of the PP Strategy 2018 and 2019 respectively. It may be a small number, but a significant one that shows that all these measures, all of the encouraging measures that the Republic of Serbia is giving have positive results, and that since 2019 only Serbia of the 10 countries in the region has recorded this positive increase in firstborn children. As I said, it is clear that Serbia is committed to fighting for birth and that nothing can achieve overnight. So your ministry and this government certainly have the full support of the JS in the further struggle to protect our family, to have our children born, to make Serbia more economically powerful, because there is no better support for our family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7854	Thank you. The word is Uglješa Marković.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7855	I thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as a representative or member of the younger generation, I feel really privileged and privileged to speak today on this subject directly concerning my generation, my friends, my comrades, and to speak to someone who, from their perspective and my personal perspective, I am speaking to the role of my parents on this particular subject, and right in front of the Secretary of Resorship. In the previous period, the Republic of Serbia has made a great effort towards promoting population policy and a law on financial support for the family with children, the 2018 birth incentives strategy, the Action Plan of the Strategy and the National Programme of Serbia 2025 has been adopted. We also owe the former minister without portfolio with our team, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, as well as the entire former government headed by the prime minister. What we have on the agenda today is exactly the bill on amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act for the family with children, and I see it as a continuation of exactly the continuity that I was talking about in the introduction. What it is is some essence of these changes and additions is that they are a step further to equate families living in the country with those living in the city and that they can make benefits based on the birth and care of the children of those women who are farmers, and that the parent will also not be able to make compensation, or maternity, less than the amount that is minimum at that time, which is not a small number of mothers, as far as I have found the data, each third mother has received less than the minimum amount provided for by the minimumer. It also improves the support of parents who have a sick child, so that they can at the same time use income compensation for their absence from work for the child’s needed care and care allowance and assistance the child has on the basis of disability. As far as the importance of this law and all these changes are concerned, I can say from some personal experience that measures are being taken to help young couples who come into the role of parents get a lot of meaning and are not just financial in nature. The overall support that the state, city, and local self - administration provide for additional security to couples and help them to overcome the role they have played, especially in those first days and months, which is precisely the role of parents. I listened to my predecessors very carefully, and what was somewhat said was about living standards, economics. But, Minister, I have to agree with what you said, and I was surprised to say that the only solution to the high mortality rate that we have, that is, is not just the economy, and in addition, the fact that there is no country that has a higher birth rate than 2.1, which is a zero point that we talk about when we talk about that birthality is in some positive trend, or positive direction. Also, in addition to that, you said a sentence that once a family, a large and healthy family, was an honor and a reputation in our society and I wonder how we got to know that it's not like that anymore? You also said I agree with that, that it's not the money that's meant to be. It's the consciousness. As a society we have come to this level of consciousness that the basic unit of every society, which is family, to us in the last year, year and a half, in terms of the pandemic, may be wrong if I bring out the data, but we have a very large, if not a record number of divorces. How the family is on such glassy feet, and we think we have an obligation to make sure that as representatives of the people, we do our best not to. Are some of these responsible for certain norms and values presented to young people as socially acceptable? You were saying, quote you, don't mind me, about planes, trucks and pitchforks. And it is, that's true, that's what young people are trying to do today, but what comes to us as content, as well, as forms of behavior that are being adopted, and also in these families, as means of communication, and come from certain television formats that are also occupied by young people, among other things, as the most sensitive group. I think all of this should bring much more attention to us and much more responsible approach to what we will promote in the next period, with the aim of affecting the collective world through prism, as the late Vladeta Jerotic said, changing the consciousness of every individual man. When we talk about all this, it's not an easy task, especially in front of you. I've already spoken and presented this information. Young people, in general, in all polls, show that the most important items of education, besides education, is work in the profession, safe roof over the head, and what gets more and more in importance, it is health care. The data suggests that from the outbreak of the pandemic to the present day, I am speaking data from a survey by the OSCE, in collaboration with the Youth of Serbia roof organization, and I have already brought them out here, is that 57.5% of young people have shown concern about family and their friends during this period, in the pandemic period, too, that anxiety has occurred at 43%, concern about their personal future at 45%, etc., that I do not list all the data, but the percentages are what they are, and the question is what is waiting for us when we leave the pandemic where we are and how we approach these young people and how we will encourage them. Here I'm not just talking about the steps of incentives that are great, that are great and that I really want to support, because I was the first user of these measures and I know how important and important they are. Here I am talking about this awareness of how to approach these young people and how to give them support and free them from the fear in them. And also, I have to say, that's what I'm going to end up with, because I want to leave space for my colleagues, and maybe I need to think about one strategy, a long-term strategy, if there is one I don't have that information, which as a country we need to bring, which will not be economical, which will rightly concern achieving and achieving certain norms and consciousness. In building that strategy, my proposal would be to include exactly five basic pillars of each country, that they give their opinion and the way they see the solution to this great problem that we are facing, which is exactly the church, the Academy of Science, the University, intelligence and, of course, the political parties, that they all sit together and bring some guidelines that will be a strategy of long-term policy that will concern our society. I think it's one way that in 2050 they're not the same data that, as I managed to see from 2007 to 2019, where we're less than 450 thousand, which means by 2050, if that trend continues, I'm afraid there'll be less of us for more than a million and 200 thousand people. The state of Serbia, co-worker Snezana Paunovic, has already talked about some of the losses we have achieved in some freedom struggles, and now I think that we should fight for the survival of our people and that this must and should be one of the most important priorities for us, and we will not succeed and do so if we do not strengthen and strengthen the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7856	Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7857	The Honorable Chairman, thank you. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens, this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children, adopted in this Assembly in 2018, is a clear sign that we listen to the voice of the public, that we respect reality, that we correct mistakes and respect courts. These changes further improve the position of women employed during maternity leave, the position of women who have a sick child, the position of women who are farmers, the position of employees of women, women who are self-employed or engaged on the basis of flexible forms of work and single-parent families. There are still a number of positive changes to this basic law. I would just like to remind you that President Vukic, in his excellent report on Kosovo and Metohija, has mentioned one key thing that applies to KIM, but also to all Serbia and the overall huge results of the Serbian state in the last nine years and said, "Our problem is no longer an outflow, because Serbs are coming back, but that we do not have children. It is our job to find the environment, preserve the cheek, the country, the nation, which measures to find someone to have a child, because it becomes the most expensive word in Serbia, is important growth, it is important what we do with KIM, but we will not do anything with anything if we don't have more children." Not to forget, in 2018, this same majority, passed this basic law, so the Law on financial support for families with children, which had not been dealt with by the authorities before, until 2012. This basic law promotes birth, introduces new rights, extends the circle of rights users and enables direct payment of rights to users and establishes new increased amounts of parental allowance, especially for the third and fourth children, and extends the length of the payment of the right from two to 10 years then, in 2018, and then brings in the Strategy to encourage birth. I'll remind you of something that seems to be a little bit forgotten. Because of the noble language that stands there, I will remind you of the noble provisions of the Family Law that this country has. This simply makes it seem not only that, since I communicate with a large number of people, they forgot about it, the spells we forgot about here in the congregation, the citizens forgot about it, especially young people, especially spouses or people who should soon become parents or spouses. So, and those provisions of Family Law, of course, are clear provisions, I don't want everything, but the language is really fantastic, so these provisions speak about the essence and humanity of family values. So one of the members is family. It's a family chapter. He says – the family enjoys special protection of the state. Marriage – marriage is a legally arranged community of life for women and men. Birth - mother, child. Women feel free to decide how to give birth. Mother and child enjoy special protection of the state. The next member – everyone is obliged to manage the best interests of the child in all activities that concern him. The state has an obligation to take all necessary measures to protect children from neglect, from physical, sexual and emotional abuse, and from any kind of exploitation. The state has an obligation to respect, protect and promote the rights of the child, which we are doing right now. Parents, she says – parental law belongs to father and mother, i.e. Mother and father together. Parents are equal in parental law. Now the chapter and the head of marriage, the conclusion of marriage. It says – gender diversity, declaration of will and jurisdiction: marriage is made by two people of different genders by giving statements of will to the parent. It says: the fact of marriage: a community of life, respect and assistance. Husbands are obliged to lead a life together, and to respect and help one another. Then comes the third part of the law – the child and the parent, the family status of the child. He says – motherhood and paternity. Motherhood – the mother of a child is the woman who gave birth to him. The fatherhood, he says, is considered the father of a child born in marriage to be the husband of a child's mother. He has a chapter – a child's rights: a child regardless of his age has the right to know who his parents are. The child has the right to live with his parents and the right to care for him before anyone else. Well, the development of a child – a child has the right to provide the best possible living and health conditions for its proper and complete development. Then he says – parental law, the sense of parental rights: parental law is derived from the duty of parents and exists only to the extent necessary to protect a child's personality, rights and interests. Then, again, noble provisions – contained in parental rights: taking care of a child. He says parents have the right and the duty to take care of a child. The ageing of a child involves the care, raising, training, education, representation, maintenance, and management and availability of the property of a child. Then, noble provisions – babysitting and raising the child: parents have the right and duty to protect and raise the child by taking personal care of his life and health. Finally, raising a child – parents have the right and duty to develop a relationship with a child based on love, trust and mutual respect, and to direct the child to the adoption and respect of the value of the emotional, ethical and national identity of their family and society. You see, I was right when I said reading this, that all of this is a little bit, especially when we look at the media, and the media is a great power, that it's all a little bit forgotten. To point out the contrast between these noble values and these provisions, I will point to one devastating case, destroyed because the perpetrator remained unprocessed. He wasn't even punished at all, of course, when he wasn't even processed. The case is destroyed because it is the media's most influential individual of the opposition, even throughout Serbia. It's about a man who's a self-called head of the opposition. Tykun Dragan Gilas has contributed enormously to the violation of family relations and values. Gilas, according to police testimony, harassed his ex-wife and her parents, both physically and mentally, his ex-wife and her parents. He caused family violence when he physically attacked his ex-wife and her parents in front of little children and when he inflicted physical injuries on his former father-in-law, 70 years old. Gilas caused this violence because at that moment and that year, he probably refused to pay his ex-wife's alimony complaints. Cases like this have a dissensive effect on society. As much as this is an earthquake case, it is only part of the testimony of former wife of Dragan Gilas, Ivo Gilas, given to the Vrachar police, that I quote Gilas's ex-wife: “He was physically harassing me, that is, doing torture on me while I was pregnant, the child was born prematurely, and with a heart condition, had serious arrhythmia. Also, to point out that during my pregnancy, Dragan Gilas was with another woman while I was pregnant and was harassed by his parents and never invited to ask me how I was. A month ago, he threatened me by telling me to cut off your head. I didn't report all this, but I am now, after all, concerned about my safety, as well as my children's safety." The end of the quote. That's terrible, you'll agree. What caused it, and the esteemed minister was speaking in part, and he was saying great, what are the causes of the depopulation? They vary naturally from country to country, I mean from climate to climate, but when we talk about Serbia, we should not continue to make sure in 2021 that the huge human victims of Serbia continue to affect Serbia in two world wars, these are two million victims. Of these demographic losses, Serbia has not recovered today. A major negative impact was left by the wars of the '90s, which is because of the victims, which is due to increased emigration. In our country, poverty is just one of the causes of the depopulation. However, the number of pregnancy interruptions is one of the most important reasons. Estimates of the annual number of abortions range between 130m and 200000 annually in Serbia. Two or three abortions come to every child born. eviction is also an important reason, however, much less than before these years. However, it has been estimated that over the last 50 years, I have been talking about the period, so every five years 150 thousand citizens have left, and it is mostly a younger population. Therefore, another general reason is the diseases carried by a blue society, and in Serbia especially the increased cause of mortality are the consequences of bombing radio-active uranium in 1999. Five years ago, it was announced that Serbia is a real country in Europe by the mortality of malignant tumours. And no less important now, this pandemic that's been going on for 16 months, and it's going to last for years, also has a multiple negative impact on both mortality and birth. The great cause of the fall of birth is so-called. I'd call it socio-psychological, so-called, disease, which he wears, under the pretenses, a very new world, I'm talking about the Haxley book. These causes are everywhere in the world and they are also demotiveism, demoralization, violation of traditional family values, family decomposition, and one of the indicators of this is the true epidemic of divorce that the respected minister is talking about. The growing cause is also the negative, toxic influences of the wrong models of behaviour imposed by the almighty media and the influential parts of society under the control of the West. These toxic influences involve violence, pornography, and negative influences on the full identity of children and young people. Finally, the great negative impact on birthacy is the influence of a consumer, materialistic society in which it is essential to have rather than to be. This last thing I've said for decades has been more promotional than human, educated and spiritual society. It is no wonder that young generations refuse not only marriage, but more importantly, refuse to start any family, refuse parenthood. Serbia's state back nine years provides significant and unrelenting support for noble social values, including family, parenting and offspring. It is a real support for respecting the dedicated heritage that allows for Serbia's healthy and unhindered demographic restoration. If we don't implement the natality measures, which is usually in progress and even stronger, not only will we not be able to restore Kosovo and Metohija, but we will be at the threshold of biological survival by the end of this century. Our Constitution has noble provisions. He says – the right to conclude marriage and equality of spouses, that is one head, member of 62, each has the right to freely decide on the conclusion of marriage, the marriage is concluded on the basis of a given consent of a man and a woman before a state authority. In article 64, says children are protected from psychological, physical, economic and any other abuse and abuse. In Article 66, our Constitution says – family, mother, single parent and child in the Republic of Serbia enjoy special protection under the law. And that's what President Vukic and SNS care about most. President Vukic raises Serbia, raises family values, builds Serbia, cures Serbia, vaccinates Serbia. President Vukic treats the past in the present for the future. And the family, parenting and offspring or concepts of children, mother, father, are traditional unconquered and noble values that provide healthy society, demographic vitality of the people who show respect for the ancestors' heritage and allow healthy and uninterrupted shifts of generations in Serbia. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7858	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7859	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, today, there is an extremely important law on the agenda, i.e. its changes and additions that should not be the initiator of any division in society, because it is a law that becomes part of the national interest and, of course, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support this law in the day of voting, because it is the basis of our policy. In view of the importance of this law, the Ministry immediately after its entry into force formed a working group that monitored and assessed the effects of the application of the law, carried out its analysis in practice, listening to the voice of the public i.e. many associations that meet this law in practice. This has also resulted today in these changes and additions to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. The ultimate objective of this law, which entered into force on 1 July 2018 and today's amendments and additions, is to increase the birth rate. The problem of birth has not existed since 2018 but decades ago. The new weather of the 21st century brings new trends in society, which are also factors that have a negative impact on population policy. If we know that we have a large number of abortions, if we know that the birth of the first child is delayed and a few years more than it was at the beginning of this century, if we know that many villages are being extinguished in Serbia today, or if we know that we have other visions of the depopulation of the population, then we know that we have a whole series of reasons that negatively affect birth and tell us that this law, and with changes and supplements, is not the only one that can positively affect population policy, but is part of one general system, one puzzle that would not be realized, would not be realised immediately, because all of this is a complex process that lasts. So this law is in direct and indirect contact with many other laws, but with the whole social situation. It just tells us how hard it is to find a system of right measures, to make this process as short as possible, and its results as positive. Also, in setting up a system of measures that should produce positive results, we can ask an interesting question, which is whether the same investment in each part of the country gets the same results or by investing in rural areas, the rural environment gets better results. All of this tells us that this law will also experience certain changes in the future, until there is a balance between wishes and possibilities, and until the birth rate is greater than the mortality rate. Of course, he would mention that, apart from the government of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government, they separate certain funds to encourage population policy and help families with children. I think that local self-governments are the ones that need to be guides to improve the conditions that will lead to greater birth, because it's not just financial assistance at birth, it's also kindergartens where these children will go, and there are no waiting lists, it's also free textbooks, free excursions, it's also free transportation for children and students, it's asphalt roads from home to school, it's arranged sports grounds where these kids are going to play, it's also arranged schools. So these are the conditions in which both children and their parents live and work. Many will recognize in this list that these are all the measures and results achieved by Unique Serbia headed by Dragan Markovic Palm in Jagodina. Those measures have yielded results. Every year when you have at least one class of seniors enrolled in primary school, then you know you're enrolled. In the end, I would quote the late patriarch of the Serbian Irine - nothing dear children will be worth to us spiritually neither the state nor the organized cities and villages, nor the economic progress we make as much as we seek, nor all the good of this world if as a people gradually but surely we disappear, i.e. if we die more than we're born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7860	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7861	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is the family's most important primary cell of every society that has not only a reproductive and economic role but also a significant educational, psychological and social role. It's where a man forms himself as a person. Unfortunately, you yourself said, dear Minister, that the family has lost its significance and that is why we need to strengthen it. Any country that takes care of its primary cell can progress, as a healthy family can contribute to both the economic and any other aspect of society, however, each of us draws energy and healthy families for its life and professional successes. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children represents the country's definition of social policy and includes demographic needs as an instrument of population policy. One of the most important factors in demographic movements is the decline of birth and this problem can be warned and tempered by good population policy. As I said, this bill represents a country's commitment to social policy, and since I belong to a party that cherishes social justice at the centre of its policy, the SPS parliamentary group will support this bill in the day of voting, the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children is based on the right and duty of parents, to raise and raise children, the right of children to living conditions that enable them to develop and commit properly and the desire of the State to support the welfare of the family of children and future generations. This law has put into effect one of the most important stimulating measures for population policy in the Republic of Serbia. The provisions of this bill constitute part of the overall social care for children and contributes to improving conditions to meet the basic needs of children, provide incentives for birth and provide support for materially endangered families, families with children with disabilities and children with disabilities, as well as children without parental ageing. Starting with the fact that the Financial Support Act is a family with children applicable from 1 July 2018,... in this area, and with the beginning of its application, an analysis of its effects has been carried out in practice, and all in order to improve to some legal provisions. In addition, suggestions, suggestions from citizens and associations dealing with family and children were discussed. To achieve all of this, i.e. To make the law better, it is necessary to achieve more specific objectives, to mitigate the economic cost of parenting, to coordinate labour and parenting, to promote reproductive health, adolescents, to combat infertility and to encourage local self-government to address this type of problem. Speaking of local self-government, I'll remind you that first of all, the cabinet of the minister without portfolio is in charge of demographics, headed by Professor Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, launched a project of support for local self-government to implement the measures of population policy and this activity came under great approval on the ground. I would also point out that it is good that, starting with previous experience, the government of the Republic of Serbia in January 2020 adopted a Regulation laying down a programme of support for the implementation of the population policy measures in the Republic of Serbia on the basis of which the cabinet of the minister without portfolios is in charge of demographics and population policy, it called for public funding to be granted to local self-governments to co-finance these measures. Also, the reminders for the sake of this, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, since 15.6.2020, has made it possible to extend its rights to insured persons, i.e. Women with regard to infertility treatment procedures, biologically assisted artificial fertilisation procedures, i.e. insured persons, i.e. women are given the possibility of an unlimited number of attempts at extra-body fertilisation on the burden of the RFO to obtain the first child, as well as the shift of age from 42 to 43 years of age. I will also remind you of the adopted Strategy for Incentives of Birth in 2018. These are all the measures the Government of the Republic of Serbia is taking to overcome this problem that is the problem of the survival of the entire nation. The most important amendments to the draft law concern, first of all, a provision in which the monthly amount of maternity benefits, i.e. salaries during maternity leave cannot be less than the minimum earnings established on the day of the beginning of the exercise of these rights. Then, a permanent grant based on birth, child care and special care of the child can also be made by a mother who, during the 18 months prior to the birth of the child, was an agricultural insurance company. The bill also improved the support of parents who have a sick child, thus deleting a provision that was not possible at the same time to use the right to make a profit while away from work for special care of the child and an auxiliary allowance for assistance and care that the child has based on disability. Finally, to conclude that all together we must continue to work on the implementation of the National Programme for the Conservation and Promotion of Reproductive Health, the Strategy for Encouragement of Birth and, of course, the National Strategy for Young and Young Couples both on their employment and on solving housing problems under favourable conditions, to encourage young people to school, to live from their work and to spread their families. More specifically, everything she has always stood for and will advocate the SPS and I will repeat, so the SPS parliamentary group will also vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7862	Thank you. The word has Dr Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7863	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today is a real pleasure to talk about this law and I must admit that in December 2017, I was pleased to vote for this new law then, because the problem of birth is indeed present decades ago. I am proud to belong to a party led by the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, because he was the only one who had hearing and saw that this problem existed and that such laws and measures were needed to support population policy. As someone who himself found himself giving birth to the first child during the tycoon yellow regime, in 2004, in fact, in January, I gave birth to a daughter. Unfortunately, as in all of Serbia, there was then a yellow Dossmanian company, and they did not really have the hearing to encourage maternity or pregnant women or anyone. I wasn't even busy at the time because I was the only doctor on the Bureau. I wasn't politically similar to the director at the time who belonged to the same party as today's SP leader, Mr. Gilas, so it was an excuse for her not to get a job because, apparently, the baby was small, and she didn't wonder if the child could and had anything to live on. As a measure of their policy at the time, the only thing I got from the city was a 5,000 dinar voucher, which I could spend in a drugstore where the director was, too, part-timely appointed, their member and I could buy two, three modified milk and so on. While in other pharmacies I could do more, but, well, that's the policy of those who would now come to power. What I can also say is that during that period, the kindergarten itself, which is 2006/007 years, when the child went to kindergarten, paid 11,500 dinars, and the doctor's salary was less than 30,000 dinars. Now, the comparisons for 2012 are fortunately citizens of Kruševec, but the whole of Serbia recognize what kind of business it is, the yellow company, and clearly tell them not their policy and give them a chance for the SNS, to rule both in Kruševec and Serbia. I gave birth to a younger son and kindergarten in 2014, you won't believe 2,500 dinars, although the doctor's salary was three times higher than that in 2006. And now you see, the comparisons, where the money of those who now have plans and talk about having a plan for both children and pensioners, and then I know, because my parents were pensioners, what their pensions were, and what they are today. Serbian citizens see who and how he manages, and I believe that the very solutions we have made since 2012 are correct and that we also have huge citizens' support from there. When it comes to Kruševac, I wanted and I have to boast in some way, because we were really working in the previous period and what you mentioned... One of our colleagues said that we need to raise awareness of birth and family expansion, we're already working on it, and that's some new plans. We have the Commission for the implementation of measures and activities of population policy, and in this year, as many as 45 million dinars have been allocated for these measures, so it takes a great deal of action for every third, fourth and fifth children. Then, we have incentives for out-of-body fertilization. Even in Kruševec, we moved that border precisely because some young women still decide to take that step later. Even by 52, it is possible to go to out-of-body insemination and to make millions and a half of dinars available. Then, every year, we have a gift of congratulations for the first baby born of 200,000 dinars, for children second, third and fourth-grade students, as children of other classes are covered by a local action plan for children. Then we have a gift of congratulations for the third and fourth graders in the family, and that's eight thousand for the founding, 14 grand for the high school kids. For unemployed families, too, compensation of 40,000 dinars. A gift of congratulations for each champion and many, many things, which means that in Krusevec as well as in all of Serbia, we are conducting one responsible policy, so that those who are now offering some plans really shouldn't be surprised that Serbian citizens believe the SNS and give enormous confidence that is growing and greater from the election elections. In voting day, I will support this good bill. I really think that family is where life begins and where love never ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7864	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7865	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected ministry representatives, my distinguished colleagues said in the opening statement, as well as the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, fellow Members Snezana Paunovic and colleagues who spoke after her and counterpart Vesna Ivkovic, that there is no disputed support for the SPS when it comes to this legislative proposal, but let us continue today's debates to say a few more things that we consider to be important when it comes to this legislative proposal and at all about the ministry, the restor, one serious and responsible ministry and the resolution that you have taken over and what the objectives of the Government of Serbia are, above all, when it comes to your ministry. So, we've heard many times so far that the family is the basic cell of society. A long time ago, people of mind, sociologists, said first of all, because in the family, life begins, the family is raised, one system of values, personality is created in the family, and there is no accidental saying that everything is just leaving and carrying everything from the family. Each of us bears the seal of our family, and the society is simply an interactive family gathering, organized in accordance with sociological, social, economic and legal rules. As long as the family is a healthy foundation, so is society healthy, productive and, I would say, progressive and so is based on the right systems of values that guarantee the construction of both human and progressive society in general. So the family is the goal of every society, and to form a family and give birth to children society is that it must provide a positive social climate and stimulating conditions. This is where the family observation begins and as cells for the restoration of the population of a state. So I see the family as a central institution of demographic movements, because family decisions are those that contribute to a better or worse demographic picture of a society, but families about the creation of offspring are most often related to the existence of stimulating living conditions, to having a secure job, an apartment, that there is state support and, of course, support for children. When it comes to the restoration of the population in Serbia, today we are, unfortunately, on one lower scale, I would say, survival. The data on birth and mortality are not good. The data that I could get to when it came to the Statistics Institute, for example, was born in 2019 in 64,399, and 101,458 people in Serbia died. In last 2020, fewer than 62,000 babies were born, and unfortunately about 115,000 people died. The increased mortality in 2020 is also the consequence of Kovida-19. In itself, the data suggests that we are an ever-older nation and what is the most serious social problem is that for many years we haven't even had a simple reproduction. Ageing Serbia is one of our country's biggest problems. That's what we're... I'm sorry, I didn't realize. Is something funny? Did you smile at me? I mean, it's not cultural when someone's saying that... Ageing Serbia is one of our country's biggest problems. That's what we in parliament talked about many times, first of all, with the desire to find the most optimistic social solutions that would stop a negative population trend. Otherwise, not only threatens us as a people, an incurable white plague, but a depopulation poses a danger to the country's overall progress. The truth is that the question of depopulation is not only a problem for Serbia, but for us it is not a comfort. On the contrary, for us it is a question of the survival of society in general. There will simply be no population that will be carried for several generations through the development of Serbia and that will fight for Serbia's development, and unfortunately there will not be enough labour force, which could be the most serious threat to our country's economic development. So there is no more important business for us today than serious and organised concerns for demographic development. With the reduction of the population, Serbia has met in the early 20th century, but to the seriousness of demographic issues, our science shows, as far as we know, in the 1970s. The causes of the depopulation of Serbia differ, but with one strategic approach all the causes and consequences must be seen so that a long-term and strategic plan can be planned, in fact, make a long-term strategic plan, a social response to this extremely important and I would say a significant question. The starting point is the fact that for the simple restoration of the population, i.e. for the shift of generations, it is necessary for the birth rate to be one. The ruling coalition has shown enormous responsibility to the demographic issue in Serbia since 2012. So, demographics have found the right place in the programmes of all the prime ministers since 2012, and the seriousness of the government's approach to this issue has been confirmed by the formation of the Chamber of Demography and Population Policy, and then by the establishment of a special resistor. We can't expect or see quick results from a decision like this, because any population measure would take ten to 15 years. Therefore, population policy and population renewal policies cannot be compared to, say, the results of some infrastructure project, infrastructure development, with the construction of the country, some building for which deadlines have been set in advance. Rehabilitating the population is more of a socio-social and state issue. That this state leadership has shown seriousness confirms exactly the adoption of a new Strategy to encourage birth in 2018. The previous was passed in 2008, but also the adoption and implementation of a large number of innovative measures in place, above all, through the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. We are talking about changes and additions to this law today about significant aspects of demographic policy. Before me, as I said, my fellow MPs spoke. I will only briefly refer to some legal solutions, and note that it is a clear course of legal solutions and that it is a clear goal which is intended to be achieved through the adoption of this legislative proposal and which is fully acceptable for us. It should contribute to further improving the population policy measures, to meet a positive population trend, which is our country's strategic goal. I would like to point out as a good solution that the minimum profit benefit during maternity leave can no longer be less than the minimum earnings in the Republic established on the day of the start of the application of the right. Then, the good solution is that mothers who were farmers up to 18 months before the birth of a child can use the law provided for other benefits based on birth, care, or special care of a child. We believe that this measure, which equates the motherhood of all mothers, wherever they work, will be even more stimulating, and that is what we are fully convinced of. How important this is for our rural environments that have kept birth for decades does not need to be particularly stressed. The bill also defines more precisely the conditions for defining the concept of a single-parent family, which is very important from the aspect of achieving the rights of parents and children in single-parent families. Unfortunately, the trend in the growth of single-parent families is evident for us both from these parents and children they care about must be paid attention, both from the aspect of financial support and from the sociological and psychological aspects, and especially from the point of view of the social position of these families and anti-discrimination measures. I would mention one of the big problems of single parents, which is a problem that arises from trusting children, conflicts of situations that we read about in the means of public information, and then a huge problem of the collection of alimony where often neither the centres for social work that we spoke about very often in parliament, nor the courts take priority, thus bringing single-parent families into a state of social need. I point out this problem, because it is not unfortunately a rare one, and our task is to pass laws to which every family that decides to have offspring, which are young people, is to provide affirmative conditions, and to point to failures in the enforcement of regulations. This time regulations relating to social and financial support to all families with children. So, I said I'd be very brief. Once again, at the very end, of course, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7866	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The last one registered on the list is Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7867	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, how important this law that we are discussing today is seen from the very name of the law that speaks of the state's readiness to deal seriously with issues of population policy. So at the very beginning of the address, I would refer to certain statistics, and the demographics are not very encouraging. According to data provided by SANU, fewer children have been born in Serbia since 1930 than the number needed for simple reproduction. Highly educated women today produce an average of 1.37 children, and for the simplest reproduction they need 2.1 children. By the age of population, our country is sixth in Europe. Some 19% of the population is over 65 years old. The very real picture of today is that motherhood is delayed and women cannot be blamed for it, because it is the decisions that are influenced by economic and social factors, but I am sure of the difficult demands of society. It is very important that we as a state protect mothers because they are a pillar of society, not in terms of using this wing for popularization, but because the rich and strong state makes exactly a healthy nation, and women are the ones who bring new life. The willingness of the state to solve such existential problems could also be seen as the formation of a brand-new Ministry of Family and Demography whose head you are on, Mr. Dmitrović. The population policy in the Republic of Serbia is certainly significantly improved and active measures by the state to encourage birth, and in terms of funding by the state three attempts of out-of-body fertilisation, and here I would like to point out with pride the town of Kragujevac, where I come from, which as a local self-government finances its fellow citizens and the fourth attempt of out-of-body fertilisation. It thus recognizes the importance of inciting birth and thus investing in the future of the city. As for the most important amendments to the Financial Support Act to families with children, I would like to make the following changes that have been made according to the Constitutional Court's decision - the first important amendment concerns children's mothers with disabilities and children with developmental disorders. Under the Constitutional Court's decision, the use of special care and care will no longer be conditioned, but these parents will be able to exercise both rights and receive benefits parallelly. Mothers who have been damaged by previous provisions of the law will also be able to claim compensation under the Constitutional Court's decision. Another important change is a change in the minimum fee. The maternity leave period shall be calculated at the time of 28 days prior to birth until the first three months of the child's life. In that period, the State is obliged to pay each family a fee which cannot be less than minimum earnings on the day of the start of the exercise of that right. That would mean that it's enough that in the 18 months that are now being taken to calculate maternity care, she's only had one working day. This also corrects a huge mistake, as there have been cases of women receiving 1,000 dinar compensation during maternity leave. These amendments to the law also correct measures that were discriminatory for women farmers who now, instead of 24 months, also require 18 months of employment. These amendments to the law, unfortunately, will not improve the position of women entrepreneurs, as they will continue to be subject to a special formula by which compensation is calculated. In a similar way, women hairdressers, lawyers, accountants and other entrepreneurs must choose between the closure of the company to use maternity leave and appoint managers to run the business during their absence. What is encouraging for all women entrepreneurs is the news that this is just the beginning of the amendments to the law and that the government together with Prime Minister Ana Brnabic is very ready to continue to improve the law, which is also said by the prime minister who pointed out that it is precisely the goal of the development policy of the Republic of Serbia and that there are as many entrepreneurs as possible and that they must no longer be discriminated against in any way. It is very important when we talk about the state's investments to economically strengthen undeveloped areas of Serbia. It also strengthens families in poor areas. At the end of the presentation, I would refer to the science and facts of which he speaks and prenatal psychology which he was involved with, among other things, Professor Vladeta Jerotic. A number of studies in this area have shown that it is precisely emotional, psychological stability of the mother, material safety and how they can affect both the course of pregnancy and the health condition of the child. Uncertainty, mother's dissatisfaction leaves a mark on the baby as long as it's in the belly. Aware of the fact that the state is as strong as it has a healthy nation and how much it really takes care of families. I hope that these amendments to the law are just a beginning that promises even more serious investments in population policy and more serious dealing with the problems faced by all those who have families, but also those who would like to achieve offspring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7868	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to hear the word, someone who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. In that case, there is a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7869	Since we're very short on time, I thank you for your participation in considering these topics and this very big problem, and you've all agreed and there have been several suggestions that can be considered. I'm just asking you to understand that we wanted so much more to meet mothers, families who wanted to have children, at least in this part. However, the constraints are budgetary, the limits are as they arise from force at the moment of our country, which is incomparably higher compared to previous years and will surely move forward. There is no reason not to, and of course we will also improve this law and practice otherwise. There are other things we could have talked about. I would just mention, I look up at the hour, the position of a woman who is ungrateful not only because of what is said here, grateful when giving birth of course, but because of the situations she is often in, finds, which are not favourable, I would only mention one I met on trips to Serbia and those local communities in municipalities along with my associates who are simply unsolvable. It's the employer's relationship, someone here mentioned it, the employer's relationship with the wife, the young woman. It's a big problem when he comes to the first job interview whether it's a cleaning job or an engineer or an IT sector, if he says that young girl has the intention of having a family and having children, then her ability to get a job is minimal. The employers don't care at all. Demography is absolutely not of interest to them. They're only interested in profit. When she has the first child, when she comes back, there's a problem where she comes back and where she works. If, by chance, two years later she says she stayed in a different state, she's going to be in hell with that company. I came across, I'm not going to say which company is the word, very respectable, with a tradition that has a completely different, completely opposite approach. It's a matter of people, it's a matter of what you mentioned here consciousness. The large company, a large brand, stimulates mothers with several thousand euros to give birth to the first child and allows them to both become pregnant and maternity if they need to be longer and have the first salary. These are examples that could affect, significantly, the problem we're talking about here today. We came to this, and you said that we are in a system of values that no longer knows the child as the greatest value, but knows some brand or hedonistic path or vertical to which he climbs or wants to climb, and if he doesn't climb up high he doesn't think he's succeeded in life, as he once thought we'd succeeded in life if we had big families and a lot of children, healthy children. I'll just tell you, and I'm done with that because we don't have a lot of time, one piece of information that I didn't know, I learned it relatively recently, that among those who are prone to crime, which we record as criminals, as young people who break the law, there's hardly any of the great many families. Where there's a lot of kids from there, there's no crime, and there's nothing to say about what I said -- the complexity of this problem and the complexity that we need to talk about, and then finally we sit down like we're going to do, to make some kind of strategy that's very difficult. Otherwise, I'm pessimistic in life, but when I think it's possible, then I'm pushing it with my head through the wall. I think we can do something. To start slowing down that trend that's scary bad. It's no consolation to us that others do. Thank you for your attention. Let me tell you about everything you have ideas, and no matter the form, the door and the phone lines of my ministry are open to you. You can come anytime you want. You mentioned the place. At the bar, almost everyone is taking some steps beyond this law and trying because people are aware of how complex this is and how difficult this is.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7870	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7871	Please, very briefly, two, three minutes. It's about the bill of confirmation, you got it, the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Singapore to remove double taxation in relation to income taxes and to prevent tax evasion. The contract represents a legal framework and a precondition for investing Singapore investors in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. creating conditions for their participation in the privatisation process, but for using appropriate financial instruments to promote higher forms of bilateral economic co-operation. The Treaty provides common criteria for the determination of the right to tax certain categories of income and thus to provide fiscal and legal certainty as a condition for improving the activity of the residents of the two Contracting States, then to ensure positive effects of tax relief in order to stimulate investment, general application of the principle of equal tax treatment of natural and legal persons, to improve the co-operation of the tax authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Singapore in order to exchange information and prevent tax evasion by their residents. The Treaty stimulates investments in the capital of residents of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Singapore and residents of the Republic of Singapore in the Republic of Serbia. So there is an agreement before you that allows us to implement large projects in different sectors that certainly deserve our attention and I am sure that in the voting day you will support such an agreement, therefore such a legal solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7872	Thank you. You're right, and this contract is an integral part of this search. Thank you, Minister, and thank you to everyone who took part in the debate today. According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6 of the agenda. We continue work at 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7873	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, allow me to remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the way of asking questions, that the presentation of the MP cannot last longer than three minutes, that after the reply given, the MP has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on his or her answer to his or her question, or to ask an additional question, and that, after receiving the additional question, the MP has the right to declare the answer for a maximum of two minutes. No replicas and references to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure are allowed during the question and answer. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications, and since the applications have already been made in some way and delivered, I would like to start asking questions. Vladan Glisic signed up first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7874	Dear Prime Minister Mrs. Brnabic, my question is – why does Serbia not have a platform for negotiations with Pristina institutions today, because as things stand, we generally respond to their proposals, and we did not do what our Constitution obliges, which is to pass constitutional law on the essential autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija and to perform on that platform. In our public I know that the Kosovo and Metohija Defence Movement has one such platform, I know that Ms. Milice Djurdjevic's parties also have a platform and I don't know that the SNS and that our government has such a platform. It mainly responds to proposals from Pristina. We had it here on Monday, i.e. Tuesday, we had the opportunity to hear the Serbian president react to what Kurti asked him to do, and we could not hear as authorized representatives of the people who are our platform that would have to be in line with the constitution. You've recently been to Brussels for negotiations on opening chapters, some opposition voices say we haven't opened anything new, but that what's already been done has just been transformed into a new cluster, but it doesn't matter. Otherwise, I act here like, not to be applied, but, like Caton, who spoke, every speech ends: “But, Carthage, we must destroy. ” I am asking the EU and our road to the EU – what will happen if the maneuver that is now happening, which is that Brussels and Washington are able to break the spine of five EU countries and four NATO countries and make them recognise Kosovo, if we come to that position, are we going to continue to go to the EU without an alternative or are we finally going to stop being in a hypocritical position, that we have military exercises with Belarus, and on the other hand we are introducing sanctions under the pressure of Brussels? So, will we at some point have to define whether we are a fish or a girl and say - if the EU accepts in general that Kosovo is an independent state, if this Kosovo is not at all interested in a place in the UN, because that is where China and Russia will stop them, but they are interested in membership in the NATO Pact and the EU and if we come to this situation that is very uncomfortable for us as a country, will we finally define ourselves to thank the EU and say that we must look for our people's happiness on the other hand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7875	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7876	Thank you. So, as you know, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic also held consultations with political parties on Kosovo and Metohija and the report on what is happening in the Brussels negotiations. As far as I understand it, you were unable to attend these consultations as an independent MP, so I am sorry about that, but besides that, the president was also here in the National Assembly and answered all the questions, submitted a report on negotiations, or dialogue with Pristina, but I will try again to give you the clearest possible way of telling you our position. So, everything about the talks and dialogue with the provisional institutions in Pristina is primarily contained as the first premise in our Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the position we are guarding and that is, above all, President Aleksandar Vukic, who is leading these negotiations. So, of course, we are also in line with the truth, which is that Kosovo and Metohija is an Autonomous province within the Republic of Serbia. In addition to this, while I have been in government since 2016 as Minister, and since 2017 as Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic has been in this respected home twice to submit a report, to answer all questions, and to clearly state what our positions are, what our red lines are, what we are in, what we are trying to get out of this and what is what we can expect in one way or another. Every time he's made it perfectly clear, which is easy for me to understand, I don't know how much someone else is constantly asking the same question, which is -- which is true, our platform is that in these conversations you don't open all your cards because it would be unreasonable, irrational. You know what your red lines are, you know what your premises are, you know that it's in your interest and in the first place it's the safety of the Serbs at KIM and then you enter those negotiations. It is indeed unclear for me, MP, that someone constantly insists that we say exactly what our positions are and that we lose any possibility of winning those positions, or that we gain something in this dialogue and practically, which is already an ad act for a large number of countries around the world. I don't know how else to answer this question. I certainly won't reveal our cards here. I know what our positions are, but I think it is enough for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, above all for this home to tell you that these negotiations, or talks, are taking place in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that we are trying to protect peace, that we are trying to ensure long-term stability and that we try to save what can be saved. Unfortunately, in the situation we inherited, everything that could have been lost was lost by letting an illegal so-called. Kosovo's independence and not being done enough to prevent this, if it could not be prevented, then to prepare it and not to follow the wave of recognition, and even of our extremely close and friendly states, and the non-existent state. Well, then with reckless questions to the International Court of Justice. So, by removing the issue from the UN under the hat and the auspices of the European Union, etc., by setting boundaries between Serbs and Serbs, by recognising their seals, etc. So, all that has been done in such a way that this issue is actually closed and that no one is engaged until the moment of coming to the power of Alexander Vukic as Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister, of course, in collaboration with our coalition partners, and also the National Assembly president ultimately participated in the talks and the Brussels Agreement, so he knows it much better than I do, and that this issue is brought back to life, to return literally from the dead, put on the table, and that today everyone understands the world, including those who were, above all, supporters of not only independence, but also the father and mother of that so-called. The state, to understand that the issue is no longer closed, that it is reopened and that the issue cannot be resolved without Belgrade's consent. So much has been done, but smart moves and smart politics. To discover now all our positions would certainly not be a smart policy. I hope you understand that now and I hope you agree with me. I don't know who goes into any kind of conversation or negotiation by saying this is my position and that's it now. Perhaps you could have won something a little more than that position of yours, and perhaps, in fact, it is certain that you will win much less if you say it before the talks begin. That's ridiculous. Finally, just to tell you one more thing, I did it again, I repeated it, I must have personally in this home several times but it seems to me that some just don't want to hear it, which I still don't understand why, because it's in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MP, the EU does not accept Kosovo's independence. The European Union is statusally neutral of this, and especially not, as you say, the EU generally accepts that it is so-called. Kosovo an independent state. First, you know that's not true. Secondly, what you said is contrary to Serbia's interests. So, you're not out of line with our interests, you're exaggerating him against our interests. There are five EU member states that do not recognise Kosovo's independence, and then you say here as a national MP, the EU generally accepts Kosovo as an independent state. Well, how can you say that? Well, you know better than that, why are you saying that? It is truly unimaginable that an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia says such a thing. First of all, it's not true. Secondly, it's true as much as you can under these unfortunate circumstances in that sense on our side. So, the EU does not accept Kosovo's independence as a whole, absolutely does not accept. I just have to tell you that and ask you one more time not to say things like that because they're not true and they're not in our interest. That is what the MP in Pristina would say, not a folk MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's really the thing that an MP in Pristina would say, if he tried to lie there and said here the EU is for us, everyone accepts us, they accept us in general, and that's that. Why are you doing this? So, look, these are my answers to the platform. If you really still don't understand that it's against our interests to reveal all our positions, then I don't know how else to explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7877	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7878	I suppose you were in communication with your associates so you didn't understand what I said, I didn't say that the European Union in general determines that Kosovo is an independent state, but what we all know and can't pretend we don't see it, is that this is what Germany is looking for, that the moment Britain exits from the EU is a predominantly part of the EU, that this is wanted by France, which is also a major part of the EU, and that thanks to the fact that we still have four NATO member states and five EU members who do not accept KIM as an independent state in the EU. At this very moment there is an action by Berlin, Paris, Washington, and perhaps London to put pressure on these countries to break their resistance, and to get into position, my question would be – what do we do when it happens, if it happens, because the serious and responsible government must also have a scenario for unpleasant developments? What happens if that scenario that's just taking place? Because Greece is under a lot of pressure, all these countries are under a lot of pressure, and what's only interested in Pristina is getting support from Brussels and NATO so that it can... So, in that sense, I am not talking about what the EU is now, thanks to the formal consensus, which is still being respected in the EU, and Germany is working to change that, we have the possibility of maneuvering and we still say that we can negotiate with the EU. But if they realize what they are doing now, to pressure those countries to accept that Kosovo is an independent state, we will have a serious problem and then I hope, believing in your patriotic potential, that you will finally say no to the EU. We live here not only because we have greater GDP, but to continue the mission of this people that has existed for centuries and for which we have the responsibility not to leave our descendants of that country less than our ancestors have left. Secondly, if someone comes into the situation to accept that Kosovo is independent in any way, I do not say that it is you, or that it is the president of Serbia, do not make sure that no one in Serbia will continue to develop Serbia's deployment as planned, and that we will be able to protect the rights of our citizens in a working relationship in any foreign company if we allow ourselves to be trampled on the issue of our sovereignty. Anyway, using this time period a little bit more because you interrupted me, I mean that, to be honest, listening to the president of Serbia in this room, there were parts that I wanted to applaud, and I'm not because I'm an opposition MP, but there were a lot of parts where my heart got cold because there were so many defetist tones that weren't acceptable to the man who was president of Serbia. On the other hand, we haven't passed a constitutional law on essential KIM autonomy, which is our constitutional obligation. It's not a red line detection, and we haven't continued the process of recognising which we have a complete moral right after Kurti's conduct in the negotiations. So the speech Mr. Ivica Dacic gave in this House was much braver. I'm saying again what I said in my own time, it's much better to be foreign minister and continue the recognition than here to be held by the SNS Congress.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7879	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7880	To tell you the truth, I understand that you as an independent MP don't have a particular need and you don't feel a particular responsibility to seriously think things through and that you have the right to throw out empty flossules here that someone will like or not like, but that maybe a lot of people will support. That's all you're saying, I mean everything, not everything, but in the end that the president was here, that we've heard defensive tones that don't like him, etc., I understand that it's kind of a policy that's probably up to Alexander Vukic in this country was the only possible and acceptable, and that's, let's say whatever we say, just that sounds good. Is it true or isn't it true, what the consequences of it will be, so what difference does it make, but that sounds great. It's one of the features of your exposure. The second feature of your exposure is what would happen if it were and what the Government would do if it were to happen. Here, if five EU member states do not recognise Kosovo's independence, if under pressure they recognise Kosovo's independence, then what will the government do in that case? I think the government should deal with a real situation, a real policy. In doing so, we are the Government and the ruling coalition that has shown that it responds to such pressures, which undoubtedly some countries of the world are making over some other countries in order to accept their foreign policy and in this sense recognise independence so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. We have influenced 18 or 19 countries withdrawing their previous recognition of Kosovo. I think it says enough that we have a plan and we know exactly what we would do and that we know exactly what we're going to do, not if one EU Member State recognises Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, but any country, at any point on the globe, if it recognises this illegally declared independence of what we're going to do. And we will respond to each act with the same measure. Which is why for the first time, for the first time, someone suspended the campaign to recognise the false state of Kosovo because he was scared of the recognition campaign we had so successfully implemented? I wish Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Dilas, all those who were in power at the time, would have been a much different situation today than it was then a wave of recognition of a false state, the president who flew faster or better out of the country, hid behind a curtain in Romania and from there from Romania, from Bucharest, giving statements to Serbian citizens at such a time for the country. We were able to act to say: well, well, come on, let's suspend each other until you complete the negotiations. Do you understand what a political victory that is? Now we're talking about what would happen if it were. What if someone had forced Spain to recognise Kosovo, then what would you do? Where did you come from? I'm sure there are countries they'll get out of the hat before, and then you'll see our reaction, as you could see in all these years ago. Of course, we have a plan. I didn't think that was a question, since we've had these results in the last few years. I'll do it again. People, the honourable MP, the issue was closed, and not to act crazy, were closed before Aleksandar Vukic began to deal with the issue from the position of government in the Republic of Serbia. This is what Germany, France, the United States no longer dealt with, absolutely no longer, and unfortunately our authorities did not. They were doing so much or in that sense to say, to remind – let me ask you to go to Borko Stefanovic at the US Embassy, then and today, Gilasov Borko, only in the meantime changed his name, to go to the US Embassy and beg the ambassador to just move the declaration of independence of our autonomous province, so that they could win the presidential elections in the Republic of Serbia. Well, that's how important that question was. How can we somehow move him so we don't lose power over it? If we lose Kosovo, what do we do? It's none of my business. My concern is how to stay in power, how to keep stealing. I don't care how I save Kosovo or what I'll do when and if they declare independence. So, we have a plan. Let me tell you one more time, I absolutely disagree with you that we have heard the defensive tones of President Vukic. I think we have heard honesty, which requires enormous political courage and enormous political responsibility, which a large number of politicians in the Republic of Serbia, apparently including you, a respected MP, are not used to and not natural in politics. I think that courage, honesty, responsibility, Serbia and our people have brought so much good in the last seven or eight years, so much good. Because he didn't want to lie and deceive the people, because he didn't want to be irresponsible and say, "No, everything's great and everything's great and there's no problem and we're very strong and everything's gonna be okay." No, he says things the way they are, and according to that and how difficult it is, but according to that, we always go one step forward, always, always said it's hard, he always said that we'd get something hard, and we've always managed to get at least a little bit, to move forward at least a millimeter and in relations with Pristina and in achieving that question really goes back to the table, both for Washington, and for Berlin, and for Paris and for many other centres of power. I am proud of this policy, I am behind it, and it has brought us, after all, not only much good for the people of Serbia, but it has brought us a lot of reputation and credibility in the world, which, long ago, was lost, and which Aleksandar Vukic has recovered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7881	Thank you. Ambassador Glisic is entitled to two more minutes. Just re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7882	Just two things. Our constitutional obligation is to pass a constitutional law that will define the essential autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. It's not done. Not that it wasn't done by your government or any of the previous governments, but your government is now ruling. So these aren't red lines and that's not revealing a negotiating strategy. It is an obligation to the Constitution that is not fulfilled. The second thing, in the period when we broke off the recognition campaign, the state of Israel recognised Kosovo and Metohija. I assume that you do not submit to the State of Israel and that you know what its significance is in international relations and that it is a great defeat for the state of Serbia for what has happened. So, at the moment that we broke off the recognition, they broke up, but they continued, and they scored one point which is very difficult for our further development and relations with the State of Israel and in general for our position in the international order. In that sense, I don't think we have any reason, especially after what the president told us that Kurti, as a representative of the Albanian side, behaves in the negotiations, we have no reason not to continue the recognition campaign, and in this sense I don't see why we would continue to be so cooperative with Pristina, but even more than Washington and Brussels, Berlin, London, but who is the pressurer. So, in that sense, these two things don't stand in relation to what you said. I will not insist on other matters, I just want it to be clear that this government has not fulfilled its constitutional obligation to pass a constitutional law on the essential autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia and that the withdrawal strategy is wrong and that we do not have the moral right to do so, because the other side has failed to fulfil its obligations under the Brussels Agreement, which is acting boldly and irresponsiblely, and is doing so because it has the support of Brussels and Washington, em, for having received the state of Israel on its part in all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7883	Thank you. Let's move on. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7884	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected Prime Ministers of the Republic of Serbia, respected ministers, I would like to refer my first question to the Prime Minister, Ani Brnabic. In the past 15 days, you have had very live diplomatic activity, the Southeast European co-operation process in Antalya, a meeting with regional leaders, a meeting with the president of the Republic of Turkey, then the summit of Austria and the Western Balkan countries, a meeting with the Austrian Chancellor, a meeting with other regional leaders. My question is – do you have any news that will be interesting for us peoples, for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia? In part, the question also concerns the Minister for European Integration and also you, Prime Minister – what is our European perspective? Will there be new chapters to be opened? What challenges do we face in these post-cove times, and when is the region concerned and when is Europe and the EU concerned? What is the fate of the Mini Shegena? Did any consensus occur at these summits among the leaders of the region? Is there a step forward on that? My second question was addressed to the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Minister Marija Obradovic. These days we've had the opportunity to read in the media, there's plenty of space dedicated to the local community council elections. These are very important institutions. In these elections, citizens come out in their settlements, in their neighborhoods, means in their local communities and wins, of course, whoever's better. The one who loses has the right to be human. That's right. Indeed, I have great respect for the institution of the local community, because what is invisible for both this Parliament and the government and for the municipal council and for the municipality is visible to the local community institution. Analyzing the space where I came from, in Sandzak, in the Sanjak municipalities, the older ones couldn't remember the last time there was an election for local community councils in Novi Pazar and in Sjenica. As far as the elections in the Tutin municipality are concerned, they were so intransparent that today the court proceedings are under way. So my question to you – what will you do? Do you exercise certain control to in any way affect? What are the legal opportunities to hold elections for local community councils, because it is the only way for people from the settlements to influence the implementation of that policy that I care about, and which is perhaps invisible at that city level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7885	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7886	Thank you. Yes, they have been really intensive lately, both within all regional co-operation processes and, of course, important meetings for our further European integration. Additional important meetings are just coming, so this pace, like this, continues. As you said, there was a regional meeting in Tirana, one in Antalya in the process of co-operation in Southeast Europe. Then, a meeting, a regional meeting in Vienna with Chancellor Sebastian Kurtz. During all these meetings, many bilateral meetings including a meeting with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Chancellor Sebastian Kurtz, High Representative Joseph Borell and several other meetings on the sidelines that discussed both regional co-operation and our European integration. In addition, on Tuesday, an intergovernmental conference in Luxembourg, where the opening of the first cluster was established in line with the new methodology and found that Serbia had met all the conditions, the preconditions to open two additional clusters, cluster three and cluster four. We have heard from many EU member states that if Serbia continues reforms in this way, primarily in the area of rule of law, there is absolutely no reason to open either one or both of these clusters by the end of the year, and at the time of the Slovenian EU presidency. That's what our goal is right now. That's very short, because I've talked a lot about these things. As far as regional co-operation is concerned, this is a year that should be very good for regional co-operation because after many years we really have concrete results this year. Here, for example, the most concrete result is this regional roaming agreement, which has now been implemented since 1 July and for the first time by our citizens, all citizens of the region, all those living in this region will no longer have to pay the roming tariffs when they travel around the region, but it will be calls at a price like at home or surfing the internet as at home. Indeed one great regional success and it seems to me to be a concrete benefit for all those living in these areas. Secondly, we continue with a number of concrete regional projects. There are, of course, highways Belgrade – Sarajevo from both directions and from Sremska Raca and below, from Užic via Kotoman, but there is also railway Corridor 10, so the complete modernisation of the railway line, to the border with Northern Macedonia. Then we leave, in September, with the highway of peace, with the highway between Nis-Pristina-Tirana-port of Durres. We have a gas interconnector to Bulgaria and various other initiatives, but it is indeed this year in which it is seen that what we planned in previous years, this year or already yields results, as is the case with a regional roaming agreement or these projects really citizens can see that they are being done, that they are specifically being built. Instead of somehow celebrating this year's success and regional co-operation and all our efforts in all recent years, unfortunately, with the arrival of new provisional institutions in Pristina, above all Albin Kurti, this whole regional co-operation is getting a completely different sound, which is that there are no more declarations, there are no agreements, it accepts nothing unless the Republic of Kosovo appears in those agreements, which, of course, is totally unacceptable to us, but not just us. Again to repeat, therefore, we are not alone here, there is both Bosnia and Herzegovina, which does not recognise Kosovo's illegally declared independence under the CEFTA agreement, there is also Moldova, which also does not recognise so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. So these things are really impossible, and then since they're not even for debate, they're not even for discussion, then basically you, the agreements are just getting off the table and we don't have any regional agreements anymore, no regional declarations, no conclusions. There is no such thing as nothing. We had in Antalya, I would say a good signal but there, Pristina was represented by Vlyoso Osmani, who let important documents be adopted, such as the Sustainable Development Strategy of Southeast Europe by 2030. In this strategy, Kosovo does not appear with a star, but wherever Kosovo stands, Kosovo is with a whole fus note. It remained reserved, was not even officially abstentioned in that sense, and those documents were adopted. So there is, I would say still instability about what can, what can't, what exactly and there their policy, but unfortunately, I expect that at the first next important meeting, which is July 5th meeting of the Berlin Process through a video link, four agreements that have been working on for a very long time, and even for many years may not be adopted which is a major blow to regional co-operation. I'm going to underline one very important thing again, which is that we don't only consider it bad, but everyone in the region and those who have confessed so-called. Kosovo and those who are not. Everyone thinks it's bad for the region and regional co-operation. To go back to that previous debate. Serbia has been doing all this with a hard, responsible and courageous policy and you know how hard we have tried to break this narrative of both sides, as if we are equal, as if we are equally non-serious, equally irresponsible, so let's calm down each other. No more of that narrative. If we did as we heard earlier or as the politicians here advise certain and irresponsible politicians, then in two minutes, we would literally return to that narrative, thus losing everything that we had experienced in the years before, and that is why it is important that we show this constantly responsible constructive policy. Less and less, it seems to me that people in the EU who don't see the difference between Belgrade-led policies, which is responsible, courageous, constructive policy that is stared at the future and politics that are currently run by temporary institutions in Pristina, which is, above all, focused on the past and which quality of life of all people living in these areas is not particularly important, because what does it matter that we can't implement regional projects that have nothing to do with politics if I say that my political position is that strong and I'm going to pick up some cheap points at home. So it's really pointless. But that's why it's very important again that we're at that table every time, and if we have to fly from one country to another country and we're in meetings all the time until two in the morning just to be there and to show what our policy is. So I hope that this regional co-operation will certainly be between us, so the rest of us, but ultimately, the Western Balkans is five countries, so we call this format five plus one, that this co-operation will continue. You heard today and President Vukic during the press conference. He talked about extremely good talks with the Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia, Zoran Zaevje and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Albania, Edi Rama, and how much we have managed to achieve in this regional co-operation and how much more resources and time, patience and attention Serbia will invest in this relationship. So I expect that by making extra efforts, we will be able to push through further strong regional co-operation. Those who want to shut themselves down, unfortunately, will probably choose to shut themselves down, I wouldn't want to, but let's see. We will fight for our position, but also for the position of the entire region, because once again there is no successful stable prosperous Serbia if the region is peaceful, safe, secure, stable and also economically prosperous. Finally, as far as European integration is concerned, there are a lot of disappointments, a lot of frustrations, without further ado, which we are clearly communicating with our European partners, but again what is important to me is that we continue reforms and it is important for me to say this for the citizens of Serbia, absolutely none of the reforms we have implemented on our European path because it was a request or an ultimatum of the EU, but because each of these reforms is good for our citizens, for our country and for our society. It certainly leads us to the EU, but these reforms are good for us and we will never compromise there. So we will never accept the policy or-or, even though we are never served politics or-or because Alexander Vukic has changed Serbia's position again and we are not served with demands, and God forbid, ultimatums anymore. So we continue on our European path and I really hope to work on it with my entire team that we have two more clusters by the end of this year. But if it doesn't, as far as possible, I won't be sorry that we did so much, because I know that because of this our public administration, the state administration will be more efficient, that we will provide even better and faster services to the citizens that in the area of rule of law we will have a more effective judiciary, that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will come faster to justice, that the economy will be safer, therefore the investments will be greater. We have our way and that's what's important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7887	Thank you, President. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7888	Thank you. The Prime Minister has already said a lot, I'd like to add a few things. Given that lately I have been with the Prime Minister at important meetings, and in Vienna, then we were in Luxembourg, what I want our citizens to know, of course and the MPs, is that there are many things that are not seen in the public and we don't talk to them, because we act as a serious and responsible state, serious and responsible diplomacy, our congress diplomacy is very lively, very successful, the work of teamwork and agreements with both the president and the prime minister, I, as a resolute minister, all the other ministers, therefore, we are very successful, we are working together, and all of this results from some steps that may not be large, are not seven miles away, but are also important and single out the successes of Serbia whose reforms and reform results cannot be ignored. As a result, the political intergovernmental conference is held according to the new methodology, where we have confirmed the application of the new methodology, where we have succeeded, I would like to tell you immediately, with our serious preparatory activities and the demand to confirm the defacto fact that Cluster 1 is open, given that this is a key cluster of rule of law containing five chapters already open, so the opening criteria have been met. It was very important on our part that this reasonable requirement, which is part of a serious negotiating and position on our part, is to realize that the application of the new methodology actually means opening the cluster 1, because when a cluster 1 is opened, this means that clearer criteria and political criteria, instruments for measuring overall progress in relation to which the Member States will decide what the prime minister was saying, cluster 3 - competitiveness is inclusive growth and cluster 4 - green agenda and digitalisation. We're these two clusters, three and four, which have 12 chapters in total, cluster three has eight and cluster four has four, in two months, maybe a little more or a little bit less, now I can't timely specify, but we've been working parallelly to prepare a few negotiating positions. Some chapters were already open within these clusters, let us prepare, which is not even a simple task, it requires clear coordination, political process management, clear timelines, everyone's involvement. We have changed our negotiating structures, introduced co-ordinators for all six clusters, so state secretaries, assistant ministers from the resolution ministries, which will raise the level of responsibility for political implementation. President Vukic and Prime Minister Brnabic called on the weekly level meetings of all actors, particularly related to the rule of law, to pass the point by point, to see where delays, where they are objective, where really needs are somewhat longer and I want to tell you that these are results that could not be ignored, so it is no technicality that we have opened the cluster one, but it is part of the partial recognition of all Member States that have had words of praise for us at this intergovernmental conference. So, the largest number of members had words of praise for Serbia and I have to tell you that the prime minister in a very reasoned way, fact-findingly, presented all our activities, and when you go to the level of the delegation, at the level of the prime minister, and you talk to the ministers, thus showing that you are open, transparent, that you want to hear and criticise, that you are spermine to respond, that you are ready as an equal partner to participate in this dialogue. We are a candidate country, but we feel neither inferior nor in any way less important or less valuable. We are an important partner of the EU. There are requirements that must be met, there is a process, but no one talks to us without respect, which I think is the consequence of a serious and responsible policy, which we've been leading for years. As for regional gatherings, here in Vienna, in particular, these were also almost anecdotic events at these conventions and conferences and gatherings, but I must tell you that, in contrast, I was on the panel of the Ministers for European Integration of the Western Balkans and I have already said it in public, so did some spirit without enthusiasm towards European integration. No one has praised the new methodology, everyone feels frozen, especially Northern Macedonia and Albania, for which we have shown several times, and here I have seen today and President Vukic publicly that we are really sorry that he did not start negotiations, that we fully support them and that we want to get into this process, because it is good for everyone. You know, when you get into that process, everyone has to meet certain obligations and criteria, and that brings better co-operation. I have to tell you that only Serbia was, and I have presented our readiness for a new methodology, that we have commended it, because it makes no sense to shame what you have accepted, but to see how you can do in the best possible way, strengthening dynamics, investing as much energy as possible to extract the best for the country and the best for the citizens, and I think we have shown responsibility in this. We didn't sulk, we didn't rebel, we didn't brag, we didn't drill into the chest, we did our job. This is recorded, and I believe that with this dynamic of reform and with the political leadership of both the president and the prime minister and all of us who do this, we will really be able to achieve good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7889	Thank you. Minister Marija Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7890	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the government, I'll probably give you an answer that won't particularly satisfy you, but that's true. I just didn't hear the details of which city you said no advice was provided. The market? Okay. But there are more places, like these two you were talking about. You're right. Why do I say I'll give you an answer that won't satisfy you? You probably expected us to be able to sanction such behavior by a certain act of the minister. Unfortunately, although all of this has been defined by the Law on Local Self-Government, this act on the establishment of a local community is in fact correct as the election process for local community councils is under way and the whole election process is being conducted in the local self-government unit and is being initiated by the president of the municipal assembly or the president of the city's assembly. So it's completely happening outside the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, so it's prescribed and defined by law, and that's the administrative response that I've just given you. On the other hand, as someone whose party, therefore, SNS, because I am the vice president of the GoSerb Progressive Party, are extremely important to us and we are seriously following and achieving results that no one can reach us so far in Serbia. So now I don't speak as a minister, but as vice president of the SNS, which I may be breaking some rule in parliament, but I really want to thank all the people who participate in the elections for the councils of the local communities, all the people who win and who get those votes, because that's what you said, the essence, that life is going on in the locals and that the local communities are actually the right location where we can see what it is that hurts the citizens of that small territorial organization, which are the problems, that everyday. Of course, serious topics, such as European integrations, such as Kosovo and Metohija, such as serious economic topics are taken to other places, but what is everyday life and what irritates us daily, if not in the standard we are used to is actually living in local communities and these communal topics that we can deal with are something that cities and municipalities have to work on a little bit more. I will try to make a kind of memo that comes out of my jurisdiction, but it will be a well-intentioned suggestion to cities and municipalities to be more serious in the process of organising elections for the councils of local communities. Thank you for this question. I think Parliament is also serving this, to remind you of the different problems that are happening in the territory of all Serbia and we can work on it together. On the other hand, I am leaving the Minister's or Vice-President's shoes again, and I would also like to work with parties on the ground, because you have a lot of serious resources in the cities that you have mentioned and that have problems with organising elections for local community councils, and we will certainly be interested in you and your citizens in the first place, better regulation of life and the functioning of these cities and municipalities, so here we are on a joint mission. That's how I realized your question, that we should inform the citizens, that we are thinking about every city and municipality in Serbia, and on the part of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government we will certainly send that suggestion and do a little review. Thanks again for asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7891	Thank you. The word is Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7892	Thank you, Prime Minister, thank Minister Joksimovic and Minister Obradovic for their exhaustive answers. What inspiration did this question have in local communities? So, the theme is when elections are held and someone wins. He who has a stronger party will win, has the support of the people, a better organisation, and it is not a theme when there is no choice. Thank you for that memo. I think it's very important that we wake up this democratic dynamic at a place where it's not there. As for the next set of questions, the question of the Minister of Education – does the ministry have mechanisms for children who have had difficulties in attending online classes to meet in enrolment of wanted secondary schools and colleges? Why? So we're not just talking about a legal solution here, we're talking about a fair solution. Like most other MPs, I come from one of the edges of our country where the objective problems are that you don't have the Internet, that you don't have enough tablets of devices, good mobile machines, and now we're going to come to tests where they won't all be in the same equal position. Now I'm wondering if we can do some action, some regulation that we might treat those kids and get them to meet, because this is an obvious problem for you, your ministry. I want to congratulate the educators. The way you managed this pandemic crisis is for every respect. Parliament has given support, but this is one of the challenges. My parents have spoken to me, and I'm delegating this question to the government and delegating it to you. I'm referring the question to the Minister of Health. Thank God we have a constant discount. I want to give recognition to all health workers, President of the Republic of Serbia, to the Prime Minister in the way they fought against the pandemic. We have shown that we are a serious country which is an example of many EU countries as we have dealt with this pandemic. My question is to you, Minister. So we have a discount, but we still don't have permission to visit patients in hospitals. So, are you thinking about a steppe maybe giving in without jeopardizing the system? Could you have been vaccinated with a negative test of people, family members, touring their loved ones? The third question is to the Ministry of the Interior, the minister of police. He's not here, maybe the president or someone can answer. So we're going into season, last year we had a pandemic and our diaspora couldn't come to visit our country, our region. We're going to have a big wave of our people coming from the diaspora. It's very important for our economy, the diaspora, and we need to give a confession. She was with her citizens, along with her home country in moments of fighting the pandemic, paying funds, helping families donate to health institutions. Is there any possibility of making it easier to enter our country? We're going to have miles of traffic that can actually be a risky ground for the pandemic, for the transmission of the virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7893	Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7894	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I think the question is indeed, as you said, not only about the institutional framework or the norm we are applying anyway. I'm glad you've commended all the teachers, teaching, extracurricular staff, of course, and children who have shown a very high degree of responsibility in these practical years and a half of extraordinary circumstances. From the aspect of the analysis we've been doing, so I'm not talking about norms right now, and of course there are these border areas, not only in the area where you come from, but across the Republic of Serbia, the analyses have shown, and the reference office has been working, that 1.3% of primary school students did not have adequate tools or devices to monitor online teaching. In high schools, it's a little less, so 0.9%. The fact that yesterday, for example, in 1,247 elementary schools across our Republic has been attended by 68,000 students 98.55% of students to the Serbian or native language exam and literature suggests that these figures are indeed an indication that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, inter-resorial co-operation with the Ministry of Trade, Telecommunications, for example, in some previous period, so in some earlier years, in the previous year, it has been extremely helpful to reach precisely and technological development devices that will allow children to follow classes in extraordinary circumstances, but in a way that will also correspond to this process of acquiring knowledge and overcoming these educational content, in order to be able to be referenced, prepared to go to these exams in this sense, I really do not see any way that by any regulation or regulation, something that is now in the process of getting knowledge and in the final tests of the past, which we have also had major problems in terms, in terms of youth, and in terms of the institutions, and in terms of the third year, and in terms of the institutions, in which are not necessarily. I'll remind you that we also had a RTS planet and all the other platforms that served as a tool for those at the beginning of the coronary virus, which didn't have those digital devices, and I'm also going to add that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development had equipped 10,000 digital classrooms before the virus corona broke out. This year, it will be another 10,000 and, hopefully, by the end of the calendar year or early next year, another 11,500 digital classrooms in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. I mentioned the Ministry of Telecommunications which really helped with the operators that we have free internet and that va-fi came practically to some 85% of schools throughout our Republic and in that sense I understand your question and, if there were any problems, anyone who had problems with our professional instructions had the possibility, whether it was children or teachers, to turn to the school administration on time and to point out this problem and to solve this problem. We've solved a lot of these problems in some previous period. What I can really quite honestly tell you is that changing the rules of the game at a time when the game has already begun is really not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7895	Thank you. The word is Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7896	Your Honor, first of all, I think I should say about the overall situation, about the crown, about Serbia. We are in one phase of the situation under control, but this situation cannot mean that we can come to total relaxation, because we really don't have the right reasons for that. I'll explain why. I'll start from what you asked about visiting patients in hospitals. It's not safe for now. It's not safe for many reasons. We still have, every day we register the crown positive. We still have patients who are currently lying in the hospitals that are scheduled for it, the coronary hospitals, but keep in mind that patients who end up in another hospital show up and after a while become the coronary positive, or they come to the hospital, and the symptoms come out after a day, two or three, then the tests are done, and these patients need to be moved to the hospital cove. So, it's extremely simple, it's not safe for patients who are lying in the hospital either, it's not safe for those who would come to visit. That's the only reason. It's the safety of each other. As soon as the position is created, we can come to that stage to allow visitors. There's no other reason. To get into that position, I appeal once again to everything, everyone needs to understand one fact, which is that we're not done with the crown, that every day we have a smaller or larger number of patients that we discover are positive. We have the number of patients going to hospital treatment. We have patients on the respirator, who are in bad shape, and unfortunately we have patients who die. So if that's not enough warning that it's not the time to completely relax, think about the next thing. More than 99% of patients who are now suffering from coronary disease or are lying in hospital have not been vaccinated, have not been vaccinated despite the fact that the state of Serbia has provided sufficient amounts of vaccines and provided different vaccines so that you can choose. So we have one serious non-response. Just imagine that we're in a situation like some other countries that don't have enough vaccines and that they can't choose vaccines. You can imagine what kind of pressure it would be – what kind of state that didn't provide, that didn't do anything, and we'd all be vaccinated. Now that the state has provided all of this you have one insecureness that simply because of some story - she said without any evidence, without any fact or simply - which I will vaccinate, someone else will be vaccinated, so it will be enough to protect myself and protect everyone. Dear citizens, it won't be enough, and if you think it's gonna go away, and we don't vaccinate, so don't vaccinate young people, count on the next wave, but then please don't go out and say, well, this is the wrong state, I don't know, she's given up the measures, she did this, she did it. The state monitors the situation every day, monitors these numbers and watches what it can, even though we don't officially go out with the crisis headquarters sessions now, and you see how much it's done, and every day it's being evaluated by everyone in hospitals and other hospitals, to see what we can do, because that situation if you drop out of control in 24 hours, 48 hours will be hard to get under control afterwards. We're not unserious people. If we don't talk about it, if we don't report to the press how much we put ourselves together, what we do and analyze, don't think we're not doing it. The other thing, people, just remember your friends, relatives, neighbors who have suffered all this time waiting for preventive checks, waiting for regular checks, waiting for procedures they could, which weren't urgent. Guys, you're letting us meet them. We have to devote ourselves to them. We had to rest the health care professionals who worked in kovida, get them back into this system to help people, because we will have a huge number of those who, due to not going to preventive checks, to other checks, to diagnostic procedures, who will leave their health conditions and come to a stage when we cannot help them, and the basis of medicine is prevention, and to allow as much capacity as possible from the application of health care, health care homes, hospitals, secondary hospitals to receive these patients, to diagnose them in time, to be able to cure them and to solve their problem. It's not just the crown center of the world. Therefore, the appeal for everything. Of course, and once we've released the visits, so we'll release the first zones that have been vaccinated, that have proof that they're vaccinated, that they can enter, that they're protected, that they have evidence or that they've gone over almost, that they've got antibodies or something like that. We can't, every honor of democracy, every honor of justice, every honor, every man, understand, we without enough vaccines can't get out of this problem. They're doing an analysis of whether there's going to be a third dose, whether we're going to go into complete reaccination. In early July, we'll have the first results of that third dose. I don't want to go in there too much right now, I think that's going to work. Now these studies were done with a third dose between the seventh and the ninth months. I watched those results 100% protection. But people, if you don't vaccinate zero, it's protection. Between 100% and zero, think about what it is. Young, okay, we have this current situation, we've all wanted to live, but people, what's the problem with getting vaccinated when it's proven to be a safe vaccine, there's no consequences, there's nothing, and it results in you getting sick or if you happen to get sick that these are minimal consequences. Is it possible that we are comfortable with this situation and this agony to last as long as possible, with the uncertainty of waiting for the next months? My opinion to tell you, you know where fall is, if we continue to act like this so that we don't vaccinate and that behavior is at the level, as if the corona doesn't exist, don't in weeks to make things worse for us and there's some kind of surprise -- you know, so why didn't you tell us. Look what's going on in Russia. Look what's going on in other countries. And there's summer. Look at what's going on in countries more than we've been vaccinated. We're at 17% vaccinated to 30 years. In America, we can think whatever we want, up to 30 years over 30% of them are vaccinated. It's very simple. Use your influence, you represent the people, talk to the people. We're here to clarify all the dilemmas that exist, but don't just be lazy, that it's hard for us to explain that the problem can't come out of it until we're vaccinated and that we're standing by the vaccines and we're waiting for when the problem will come back because it just hates us or a nice story told us and a conspiracy theory. Once again, I appeal to everyone. He's in this situation right now. Do what you do to make it better for us to regret what we haven't done before. I thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7897	Thank you. Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7898	Thank you. Since the interior minister is not here, I will address the issue of the arrival of our people from the diaspora, but I would like to rely on all that Health Minister Zlatibor Loncar said. Indeed, Minister Loncar is absolutely right, and I no longer know what way to influence, to appeal, to pray primarily for a younger population to be vaccinated. Indeed today in the Republic of Serbia, we act as if the corona no longer exists, but it is not so and if we continue to act like this, and no one is vaccinated anymore because, for less real days, no one is vaccinated anymore, the foreigners in the Republic of Serbia are vaccinated, then it is inevitable that we will see soon, I am afraid, I hope, something later than I think, again increasing numbers because at this point we still have 48% of the adult population vaccinated. We can't cross that 48% and you know I've been talking about it for, I mean, over a week. We're stuck here at 48%. We can't get to two million and 600,000 people vaccinated and it's amazing and it's really amazing. So 48% of the vaccine population can't protect 100% of the population. There's no way, there's no math. 48% of people can't protect the entire population. It is frustrating and disastrous and indeed a request to all of us once again if we can talk to people we know, with relatives, with neighbors to appeal, to say – people if they start again, then it is a disaster for all of us and for the mental health of the nation, for our economy that is growing well at this point and that is really tough and the economy is fighting. Not to mention the health system, not to mention the health system and how and what to tell these people if they need to go back to the same system. At this point, we only have 37 local self-governments that have crossed 50% of the total adult population in these local self-governments. Let's say we have several city municipalities within Belgrade, so we count them as well. Without that, it would be a lot less and we have 7 local self-governments that are close and that I expect, hopefully, in about 48 or 72 hours, we can say that they also entered that group of over 50% of the vaccinated adult population. That's 44%. At this point, we have 17 local self-governments in Serbia that remain below or around 30% vaccinated. It's a disaster. In these local self-governments, it's a matter of days when numbers will start growing again. But it is a great commendation to the People's Messenger and to your Preceeds. There are over 50% vaccines in that group. In the first 10 by numbers, i.e. percentages vaccinated, next to Belgrade's central city municipalities, there is Priboj, Nis, Bosilegrad. Awesome diameters, really phenomenal examples. The pleasure is 11, so it's 12 Little Zvornik. In Tutin, we did not throw up to 14% of the vaccinated adult population, or 14% in Tutin. The new Pazar stands at about 22%, but you see it by numbers and not only hospitalized, but from the total infected. The new Pazar remains a local self-government with always among the largest number of newly infected and by absolute numbers. So here we have to do something, and I ask all of us to talk, because it's no longer a political responsibility, it's a civil responsibility for all of us to talk, to appeal to people to try and really raise this percentage, and that we have more people who will understand that their civic duty not only protect themselves, but to protect everyone else and this country and to fix it here. With that in mind, it's kind of like the arrival of our people from the diaspora. You know, there will soon be a situation that most countries, certainly of Europe, will have more vaccines than Serbia, so even if we have many more vaccines, we have had them much earlier, we can also vaccinate foreigners, we could donate to the region, which is all great, because in the end, and until they're all safe, nobody is safe, so there's a great chance that our diaspora will come from countries that are better than us in that sense, and in that sense there will be no danger as it once existed. At this moment, such measures are in place that from our diaspora, countries of the region, Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also neighbouring Bulgaria and Albania can enter freely, that we have a signed contract with a large number of countries where they can also enter or confirm the vaccine. Unless they have confirmation of the vaccine, whether they received it or came here, since we organized special vaccination programs for the diaspora to see that we had not forgotten about them and that even somehow the queen thus provided support especially at the time that Serbia had vaccines, and almost no one else did. So many came and vaccinated, but those who have been vaccinated abroad can easily enter the Republic of Serbia. Others need a PCR test, or if it comes from the U.S. antigen test, as PCR tests are weak in America. I believe that depending on how it goes we will also further relax because I say again in some of these countries will be unfortunately likely if we don't get a little more serious than we do, but we will see. I don't think this summer will be nearly the problem he was during the Coronal virus and even at this point that nothing changes much of them can normally enter his country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7899	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's MP Tandir for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7900	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your response, thank you to the ministers. I would like to point out that before a certain time, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, and a number of ministers, visited the municipality of Prepolje and thanked them. I want to point out the Prime Ministers, that your ministers are very active, that they visit the municipalities. I can't remember that during such a short time period so many ministers came and visited various municipalities in the region. I want to give them credit, but also give them support to keep it that way. Not only when that part of our country is at stake, but when our country's other municipalities are at stake, because only this direct contact with citizens can help us have one good policy, not to alienate ourselves from the citizens, to see what specific problems are. Not with us in the Balkans news that something is not working, the news is that things are really starting to work, that the agreements are being respected, that we have the realisation of major infrastructure projects, as you said, the highway to Montenegro, according to Sarajevo, the pipeline reaches Tutina. These are some big things that are part of our political agreements that we're proud of. That's why we really fully support the politics of both the president of the state and your government. I've received a lot of calls from the bih from members of my Bosniak people, to thank the president of the state, for the donation of vaccines and for the possibility of these people being vaccinated in our country. I think it is the best proof of the policy of reconciliation in the region, a policy that is among other things in the name of our party and which is promoted by the leader of our party, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7901	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next MPs, I would like to apologize to everyone, both prime ministers and members of the government and you to the MPs, along with Vesna Markovic, on our way to Berlin for tomorrow's meeting with the President of Bundestag, so that the vice presidents will continue to bring this session to an end. The word is Natasa Mihajlović Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7902	Thank you, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Prime Ministers with ministers and ministers, I have a question for you and for Minister Joksimovic, although she has responded somewhat to what I want to ask. Maybe she'll get an idea to supplement, if she missed something to say. In fact, you participated in the Intergovernmental Conference of Serbia-EU in Luxembourg and brought more than good news about accession negotiations in the EU accession process. At this conference, as we know, it has been confirmed that a Class 1 has been practically opened within the framework of a new methodology, the media report that it is a cluster on basic values covering chapters concerning the rule of law, economic criteria, the functioning of democratic institutions, public administration reform, public procurement, statistics, as well as financial controls. It is about chapters that Serbia opened earlier, which belong to the same cluster in the new methodology. I think it is important for the citizens and citizens of Serbia to note that the European Commissioner for Enlargement said at the end of the conference that there is significant progress in Serbia and that this creates a new momentum and announced the acceleration of Serbia's EU accession process during the Slovenian presidency. I also agree with what you just said that we reforms should be implemented and implemented primarily for our sake, not on someone's orders, so please explain and give us further information on what the new methodology means, and what is what we have outlined as priorities and goals in the next period, and what will be our focus on Serbia's further integration into the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7903	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7904	Thank you. So, this explanation of what the new methodology means exactly will be left to Minister Joksimovic, indeed, believe me, extremely complex, but I know that Serbia is not only the first country to accept the new methodology clearly and loudly, which everyone welcomed at the Intergovernmental Conference, but besides that Serbia is the first and at this point the only country to coordinate its administration with that methodology, in the sense that we adopted a completely different coordination team, namely a different mechanism of the coordination team, where we have one person in charge of each of the six clusters, where the Minister of European Integration is also the main negotiator. What surprised me is that our partners from the European Union and the Member States of the European Union at that intergovernmental conference, that we were at this conference, that there were people in our delegation who led these clusters, therefore, in the context of these clusters. We have shown that Serbia has not only accepted it declaredly, but that we understand it and that we are ready to fully implement it. In addition, we, I said today, and I see that many are joking and making fun of it, which is interesting to me, when I say that we have done much more than the EU expected of us and that we have surprised the EU in this sense. I'm amazed how many people and some tycoon media simply can't accept that Serbia today is a different country and that and when someone sets up a scale for you to skip three times as much. Indeed, that was what this government conference looked like. We have completed the entire negotiating positions for a highly challenging chapter 16 – Tax Policy within two months, and this ended the Ministry of Finance. Chapter 15 – Energy was completed by the Ministry of Mining and Energy. We have completed our consultations again with the huge support of your MPs and this House. Consultations with the National Convention, handed over these negotiating positions and ended some of the things that were, in fact, the preconditions for opening these clusters, such as amendments and additions to the Excise Act, adoption of the Action Plan to separate not only the "Serbians", but the entire gas sector, the Action Plan for Mandatory Oil Reserves and Oil Products. So we really killed each other from work. All this is over and I don't think anyone from the European Union, the European Commission, believed their administration. So we sort of finished that part of the job, and now we can wait until practically the end of the year for them to decide whether or not to open those two clusters, but we're completely done for the whole two clusters. It's an amazing success and an indicator of how fast and quality we can work, and in that sense I'm not sure, but I saw with my own eyes how surprised we were. As for our further priorities, absolute priority remains the rule of law. It's an absolute priority. So, everything we do in the field of justice, constitutional amendments, co-operation with GRECO, Group of countries within the Council of Europe for the fight against corruption, freedom of the media, the fight against organised crime and corruption, co-operation with independent institutions, dialogue with civil society organisations and above all through the National Convention, I don't know if I said freedom of the media, if I tell you twice I'm going to tell you three times, bringing the end of the work on the National War Crimes Process Strategy. So, all these things are, of course, extremely important laws again and in the field of fundamental rights which are primarily addressed by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue and in a really excellent way by Minister Gordana Komic, but extremely important laws to pass the law on, that is, amending and supplementing the Law and on the Manchester, Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Meaning. The law we have to pass by the end of the year is the Law on Electronic Communications, which is very late. These are all the things that we do, but it remains our absolute priority and something that we will continue to deal with, not just us in the government, but I know that is why he is extremely interested, as Minister Joksimovic said, and President Aleksandar Vukic, and that every little he invites us to meetings to report to him on what we have done as a government, what is left to do. So I expect the same pace or something even a little bit stronger by the end of the year. Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7905	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7906	I appreciate the question. I've talked about a new methodology several times, but I understand it's not like that, let's just say, maybe not even interesting to the general public, but it's very important. Because it really frames a procedural and political process which is actually a leading process, therefore, the strategic priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not only foreign policy but also in that part of the reforms that are really part of our most important internal reforms. I'll try to explain briefly. The new methodology was initiated because, to be clear, not because of Serbia, it was primarily focused on those countries that were to start negotiations, and here they have not yet started, which are Northern Macedonia and Albania. Then the question arises, how will it be applied to countries that are already in the process? So Serbia at that point opened more than half of the chapters in total, as there was then a system of 35 individual chapters. Then the question was raised, and since we said both the president and the prime minister, we immediately accepted the initiative, thus showing complete confidence and desire in terms of our commitment to the European path, while still not knowing how this methodology would look, because we wanted to show good faith and trust and determination to go that way. Then the pandemic broke out and everything went on, and nothing happened all last year. The member states, together with the commission, had to define that the methodology would be applied to Serbia's process and, of course, to some extent to Montenegro, which has also strayed from the accession process. We defined it all, I don't want to bother you with the details, I'm only two months away, say November, December, I've had over and maybe 100 meetings on the topic of a new methodology with all representatives and institutions of European, and member states, etc. I have been relieved of my hands and the full trust of the president and the prime minister to get into this process immediately to prepare ourselves for this process as the prime minister explained, administratively, structurally, to adapt everything in order to bring about a rather demanding change and a demanding methodology to bring out the best for our country and our citizens. We've shown firm determination. We did it and it's not an easy job to tell you right now. You know, you're still all MPs, changing some structures, changing some fixed patterns, it's not a simple job. I had full political support and we worked together and came to the best solutions. In this sense, Serbia is the only country that has fully introduced this into its system, so to the negotiating structures. One, also important newspaper, is that political process management is sought. What does that mean? This means that all top officials, including the president and prime minister, and it is fortunate that we are working in synergy, it is fortunate that our government and president are on the same lines when it comes to key reforms and what is important for our European path, that indeed, especially in the domain of the rule of law, in a domain that is crucial and on the basis of which the country's overall progress is measured and which gives opportunity or does not allow further access steps to be taken. We have done all of this, I have already explained this, that both the president and the prime minister have really been active, and even to the details in some areas of the rule of law, including what has produced results and what has given one new momentum, one dynamic in the whole process. The enlargement process itself, you know very well, is not popular, especially among some Member States. I think the prime minister talked about it more than once. It's not popular to say it publicly, and they don't want to say it publicly, but they do show some kind of resistance to some further steps. You know what, I wouldn't particularly complain about our trip because we've done a lot, and everyone knows we've done it, and it can't be ignored. We may be frustrated by a step that is not taken, but you know, northern Macedonia that changed the country's name, which has changed a lot of things politically difficult, unfortunately, has not yet begun negotiations, because there are indeed resistances not only of bilateral conditions, but also of resistance to enlargement. As for us, as I said, we have not now taken a step of seven miles, but an important step that shows that we cannot ignore efforts and successes and what is primarily important to our citizens means the concrete reforms we have implemented. The prime minister spoke about clusters three and four. If you want more details, I can always come to the Committee on European Integration to present all of this in more detail, but in any case, a huge deal is behind us, a huge deal is ahead of us, but there is a solution and I think everyone recognized it. I can assure you that we are working on one day's team level and I would like Parliament to get even more involved, and it's already involved, indeed, enough and involved, so I think that in this synergy we are doing the best for our country. Is everything always ideal, is it how we want it, away from it, it's a difficult process. You know, it's a completely different negotiation process today than what Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia negotiated, and also, Croatia, let's say these members that are relatively recently. It's a completely different process. This is what representatives tell us each time, to say the old member states of the institutions, it is incomparable. But it is not up to us to complain but to work and to responsibly defend our interests and to know what our path is and of course to show patience sometimes, but also to clearly illustrate what our expectations of the EU and the process itself are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7907	Thank you. Mrs. Mihailović Vacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7908	Thank you. Thanks for the answers. It's good to hear explicitly everything you've stated that we're going to do in the next period. I think that is also important because we are sending exactly the message that Minister Joksimovic was talking about. The most important thing is what we have done, the most important thing is that we know to what extent we are in the process, to what extent there are still work and challenges we should face before us, and what Europe will do, as Minister Joksimovic said, is certainly not up to us. It's our job to do everything we can for ourselves and to start applying and living by those standards, and what the other side is going to do... We are witnessing that the EU is also facing many of its internal problems, but all of this aside, it is very important that we move forward and lead the process towards Serbia's full membership in the EU, because it is a chance, because it opens up a number of new opportunities for citizens through their daily lives to feel what they are to benefit from a large European family. It is extremely important that you have listed the laws within the framework of freedom of the media. We have a media strategy. I do not miss the opportunity to repeat whenever I talk about it that, according to the assessment of European officials and media experts from Europe, we have brought more than a good media strategy. What is before us, and you have certainly mentioned, is the implementation of the Action Plan for the realisation of the media strategy and in the framework of its revision of media laws, such as the Public Information Act already at the end of this year. A month or less ago, I also asked a question in the day for parliamentary questions to the Ministry of Culture and Minister Gojkovic and received an exhaustive response and I am pleased that working groups have been formed to start making new amendments to the law as soon as possible, because this is what is also sending a message to do, and we are doing exactly what the European Commission is doing in some previous reports of its instructions as places of improvement and improvement. Now, I'd like to ask you a question, both you and Minister Lonchar. I think it's very important that we have fewer and fewer infected from day to day. I think it's important that every day we have an increasing number of vaccines. I believe that as soon as possible we will reach that number of 50% vaccines. You know that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia has been conducting a daily and continuous campaign in cities and municipalities across Serbia for a period of three months, if not more than three months, "Do not worry about the vaccine", within which we are talking to citizens about the importance of protection and the importance of immunisation. We have launched and started the campaign and with young people, because we think that, according to at least what experts announce, it is very important in the coming period, at least until autumn, to ensure and appeal to as many young people as possible to be vaccinated, because in autumn experts warn that a new strain of the virus, from which it will be in danger under 40 years. I ask, is there any idea, is there any, uh, broad campaign within the Government or within the Ministry of Health, that a broader action is launched, that as much as possible appeal is made to young people? I'm just going to tell you that during our campaign "Vacino receive and don't worry" the young people had nothing against the vaccine, they just wait for that last moment and until they have to vaccinate, they wouldn't do it, but they generally don't mind, so I'm wondering if there's a wider campaign in the plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7909	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7910	Thank you. As for the wider campaign, you know that we have launched a youth vaccination campaign in collaboration with the largest festivals in the Republic of Serbia. It does not seem that this campaign is honestly giving the results we expected at the moment, but again on the other hand, I must commend all of these festivals, and "Exit" and "Arsenal Fest" and "Lav Fest" in Vrnjačka Banja and many other festivals, because they themselves have taken the initiative to make an epidemiological plan, in order to be responsible for the nation's health and according to this, because these festivals will require you to enter the festival or be vaccinated or you have to have an antigenic festival. We'll see now what we're going to do about this campaign, so I expect that as we approach these festivals, there will still be an increase in the number of vaccines. What we're also thinking and considering is that we're even starting the lottery, something like "Take the Account and win," where we're fighting the gray economy and we're using it to educate citizens about the importance of fighting the gray economy. We'll see if we can do something like that for the vaccination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7911	Thank you. Mrs. Mihailović Vacic, would you like a comment?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7912	I just want to thank you for the exhaustive answers, and I'm sure the citizens are happy with what they heard from you today. Now I would leave time to other colleagues because I know that for the last Thursday of the month there's always great interest and we're never sure if we're all going to be ready to ask a question. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7913	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan D. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7914	President-in-Office of the Government, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my questions will be about the current problems. The question that you know, which is that there's been a problem with the milk manufacturer. That the state does not determine the price of milk this large number of agricultural producers does not know that the largest benefit of it is from buyers and milk processors and that six last years is the same price of milk as it was six years ago and that the imputes have increased several times. On the other hand, those who say the state hasn't done anything forget that there's never been more subsidies for agricultural producers than it has been in recent years. Also, the problem of the price of cereals. The price of grain determines the stock market, not the government and the state. What is the advice to farmers, since the harvest has started what to do with the grains they currently need to harvest from their fields, and they have no storage capacity and their silos that they can store all that? A question for the Minister of Health. It is known that the vaccines received by citizens six months ago, it is said that six months ago, after six months, the vaccines need to be vaccinated again. Since when will it begin and will it depend on the antibodies of those citizens who have already received the vaccine or what will be the criterion? This is very important for the reasons that if those who received the vaccine were to be reinfected, then they would not only endanger themselves, but also their families, colleagues at work, etc. A question for the culture minister -- that we organise and pay a little more attention to the Serbian circuit. It's just about "Exit". I love "Exit", too, but what about the Serbian circuit that was recognised at UNESCO as an international immaterial heritage? Well, to organize competitions in the districts, then the republican competition, so that as a state we keep that tradition, that both Bosniaks and Hungarians participate with their choreographys, etc. I think it is necessary at this point that Serbia should keep what is its identity and should never lose it, not that we should only impose new values on ourselves, and what we have come from and what we rest on to forget about. I also have a question for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. An increasing number of minors commit crimes. The law does not recognise sanctions for minors who commit crimes. Fight, and the entire government and the Prime Minister to get us back to sometimes juvie homes, because those underage persons, maybe 5%, 10% themselves, are doing these crimes. They have their own bosses they work for, and they know that if they get caught tomorrow, they won't be processed, or those kids or those underage faces.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7915	Thank you. The word has the first Minister Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7916	To remind everyone about the vaccines. By the manufacturers and instructions that we received from them, you know how it all went quickly, they've limited themselves that vaccines will give protection, immunity in six months. However, as time passed and those people are doing these analyses and studies, immunity has been shown to last for more than six months, but they still can't get out and say how long it is. Is that nine months, is that 12 months? What did they do next? They did that between the seventh and ninth months of the second dose of the vaccine, they were giving the third dose of the vaccine, and one of the largest studies that was done is just finishing. At the end of this month, they are expected to apply to regulatory bodies, agencies dealing with it, to show their results, what happened and how it happened, and to make a decision in early July about when the third dose will be applied or what they will say. It is not realistic to expect that all citizens who have been vaccinated to work antibodies will be asked, because of course it is expensive and requires many other things, to do antibodies, and only then to assess whether they will go to the next dose of the vaccine. That's one reason. Another reason is that it is not only antibodies that give the correct result whether you are protected or not, there are other parameters. They work less than antibodies, but they are extremely complex and extremely expensive. So it's not realistic to go into such a procedure that everyone can do. What we have so far is data, which is realistic, which is that between the ninth and the twelfth months we go on the third dose of the vaccine, or after the twelfth month, they're going to go on two new doses of the vaccine. I'm saying, but that's all an assumption based on what data we have so far. We have to be patient, wait. It can't be done by heart, it has to be fueled by the fact that we don't get into any kind of trouble. So, as it is for all of Europe, for the whole world, when it stands behind it, so will we. What I want to mention once again, and it's about young people, it's about their questions and everything that's going on. Guys, there's no single evidence that any vaccine affects sterility, affects pregnancy, affects anything. Not one single piece of evidence. Here's how many millions, hundreds of millions of vaccines are given, there's no vaccine, and there's nothing in its composition that could affect that. So it's literally an empty story, a story of a tell-and-tell and those people who are fighting for some reason not to get vaccinated. And if that's a question for young people, that there's some dilemma in them, people, there's not a single piece of evidence, like allergies to some or medicines, pollen, dust or anything, that's something that affects, there's no vaccine that can do that. Whoever has a dilemma can address his doctor, can address all those people who are professional, who do so and get explanations and get evidence and get all the facts done about it. Once again I appeal to everyone, people, we can't get out of this until we're vaccinated enough, especially young. It's the only solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7917	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7918	Thank you for asking, I just think that you've mixed up a bit of a portfolio because "Exit", primarily for the last few years, the Ministry of Tourism, and not so much the Ministry of Culture, because the Ministry of Tourism is devoting large funds from the budget to help maintain events, festivals such as "Exit", which means a lot, not only to Novi Sad, the city I come from, but also to the Republic of Serbia, we can't possibly underestimate it, because "Exit" is something positive that creates a good, modern picture of modern Serbia. On the other hand, we should not forget, we should also be proud that we are a state that has both "Exit" and "Gucu" at the same time and that a certain part of our society is proud of "Exit", which has lasted since 2000, when it was a zero festival and to this day, so we are proud of "Guca". Equally, tourist events have become more than, say, "Guča", which we need to bring back to the roots. Guca represents something that preserves Serbia's cultural heritage, which is why the festival started. I am the advocate of bringing "Guchu" back a little more to some of the values it came from, which is to encourage our music creation, such as the original one, but we still can't if we want to win a new audience for this traditional festival in "Guca". So we have to find the right balance, so we have both content. The Ministry of Culture and Information supports both manifestations, which are certainly good for our image towards the world, we know how many foreigners are coming and visiting the festival and "Exit" and "Guca", so surely for the development of tourism, and we should not forget how much local self-government means about the financial side, and I am convinced that you are all aware of how much it means for Serbia's budget and that they are long ago just music festivals or some mere entertainment. The Ministry of Culture and Information deals with the protection of cultural heritage in our country. Here we are now, and we have concluded a public debate on the draft law on the protection of cultural heritage. Believe it or not, we all talk about it a lot, but our protection of cultural heritage is based on the 1984 law as the Cultural Goods Act. So we don't even have a law in our country. Luckily, we'll have him soon enough. We do a lot of helping to develop cultural heritage, as you say, and to play the car, if we're going to talk in plain language, which we sometimes forget, to be understood by this ordinary world that looks at us. We have a few dozen competitions a year. One of the most important is certainly “Towns in Focus”. This year we have a historical amount of money that we've allocated to the culture budget for it. That's 350 million dinars. An extremely large number of cities have competed, and within this many associations dealing with the preservation of our country's cultural heritage, as are certainly our traditional games. I don't know how many, you've listed several national minorities, whether they fit in to play the car, but as far as I'm concerned, everyone's welcome to participate in these competitions, so maybe we can learn to play different folk games. I'm pretty good at that car, so you came to the right person who likes to get up and play the occasional bike, even though they see me on "Exit". So I'm just in the right place to connect both "Exit" and "Guchu" because we have both. I say, don't worry, there's nothing favored by Belgrade and Novi Sad, on the contrary, they're excluded from this important contest. I mean, here's the idea for everyone to think about it and to report to the Serbian cultural representatives' competition from August 1st, and we're going to be very helpful in developing smaller cities and municipalities. So again, Belgrade and Novi Sad cannot compete and within that we will help a local municipality or city in Serbia get its right place on the cultural map of the Republic of Serbia. This will help economic and tourism development. Here, so much for now, that I wouldn't be too long, because we still have a little more time to get the others to ask the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7919	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7920	Dear People's MP, as long as we don't stay here until we've addressed your question of agriculture. Minister Nedimovic is in the field, visiting villages, so I will ask him to answer all your questions in writing. I know about the milk problem and I'm here, watching with the minister. If it's necessary for me to receive the milkers, I'm here anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7921	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7922	Mr. Markovic, I don't think I'm the right address for the question either. The way of processing and the ability to process minors who commit crimes can help us. What is in the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs are institutions for raising children and youth and they function on the principle of care, housing, education and professional training of minors who are in conflict with the law, who are given educational measures and who have behavioral disorders. This accommodation in the educational institution can last from six months to two years and we have very good experience in the work of these institutions. When it comes to the Children's and Youth Department in Belgrade, at the beginning of this year it is mostly renovated and renovated. We've invested significant financial resources. I must also commend these young people who are currently in this office, that all the older users of this office are over 16 years of age have been vaccinated during last week. They also received a second dose of the vaccine, and they proved themselves, no matter what they have as minors, to grow up as one young, responsible person, so that these places proved to be a really good opportunity, where they are given a chance to grow healthy.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7923	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7924	Dear Minister Majo, we didn't understand each other. I respect both "Exit" and "Guku", but just so you know, when foreign delegations come to us, we don't have a Brejkdens choreography, but "The Games are shared in the middle of Serbia's country". Do you understand? And, they don't need money for that, but just to be respected, to make a calendar of competitions and say -- here, first you had a competition in your district, five of the best folklore societies, will compete in Belgrade, etc. You know what? In the country at 10:00 p.m., when it's dark, at 9:00 a.m., life stops until morning, until dawn. I've made 42 home cultures and I have 40 cultural and artistic societies. There are other cities, not just in Jagodina. We need to respect these guys, girls, to show up on some TV to compete, etc. When I said about the Hungarian choreography and the choreography of Bosniaks, etc., that there was no kidding between us now, I meant it. So, to respect everything, but also what's called a Serbian circuit, a Serb freak, a Serbian folk costume, and to reroute young people. If we created the conditions to do something, why not promote them, say, "Here, you go three times a week for rehearsals, etc." It's about that. I have another question, or a proposal for a Justice Minister and a Prime Minister. Do you see the threat of a political crazy organization called Freedom and Justice, that blood will fall on the streets of Belgrade, that they will cut their heads off? That's what Marina Tepic said. That he was going to cut off his head was the term of Dragan Gilas, who threatened his wife when she broke into the apartment where she lived with her children, mother and father. You know what, there's a crime called inciting right. Now we're supposed to keep our mouths shut? Every day, let them say, that we start killing ourselves for lies and policies that only harm Serbian citizens, and nothing contributes. Who first said the Serbian parliament and Serbs should say there was genocide in Srebrenica? It's this political group, the one who took the money, Vuk Jeremic, with some addresses without an emissary, without a invoice, without a invoice. You know that, you're both the Prime Minister and the other ministers. How can someone transfer that kind of money to you and nothing? What did you do for him? We must not allow, let him have immunity, if he calls for bloodshed, to cut his heads and shut up, to say it is in the heat of political struggle, because what the EU will tell us. What EU? Remember, we will not wait to join the EU because they invent something every day, that Serbia has not done, that promise it has not kept. It's all a lie. Everything Serbia had to do towards the EU, we did - we passed European laws, they delivered before us all who were indicted on the UN tribunal's list. What more do we have to do? I can freely say that political terrorism in Serbia has appeared in politics. It's not just war terrorism, it's political terrorism that has to be punished, not let them go, they're pounding. So we release the same husbands who threaten women and in the last 20 days four women have been killed by husbands and children. We have the same husband who beat his father-in-law and his wife. Who is it? Dragan Gilas. Iva Djilas signed it, not written by Minister Loncar, Dragan Markovic Palma or Life Starcevic, and filed an application and an official duty must be handled by someone who commits domestic violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7925	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7926	I can confirm to you that all those who commit crimes will be prosecuted for all those acts for which they are prosecuted on official duty. You specifically said there was an incentive to commit a crime. It's also punishable by law, and in that sense, the prosecution will do its job. Be sure and there will be no bloodshed, and this state will stop any such trend and behavior, and eventually they will be sanctioned in a certain way and the people who enter with that dictionary, in terms of the compensation of material damage and the immaterial damage they all suffer because of their actions, because of the lies they tell, because of the untruths they make. After all, by spreading these false news, panic is created, in certain cases certain people are at risk of safety. We have already spoken on the subject of Marinika Tepic several times. Make sure the D.A. does his job properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7927	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7928	Thank you. I'll just take a minute. We've heard a lot of things so far, and we've seen a lot of things. In the last week, there have been a little more ossions in those threats of heads falling down, arresting us, banning us. Before that, it was by journalists who said they were respectable, objective, professional, that they would put us in camps. You hear a lot of things. What will you do when people have no other idea, when they have no plan, no program, when they have nothing to offer citizens, except threats, insults, but the most brutal insults and at the expense of us politicians, whether they're men or women? That's where they're born equal. They insult us, too. Sometimes women are actually a little more and a little bit worse, but such is the policy of Dragan Dilas, Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic, all of them. You have to answer that with work, just like we've been doing for the last 7-8 years, just by work, by work, and by work, and by results. They can keep threatening. This is a free country. At some point, I think the authorities will have to react. I can't get involved, I can't even invite them anymore, however they think they should, and I guess in the end, if they start killing us, they'll probably react, but then there'll be a lot of people left to fight and who will believe at that point that Serbia can be a winner again, as it is today, and not only in sports, but also in the economy, culture and in some political accounts, that Serbia is once again a winner. They will surely lose, even if they set out to physically liquidate us. There are people who will work on it, and they'll just threaten to hate it. It shows their strength and what they're like, so we're dealing with some things that are important to citizens. They honor everything they say and everything they call for and all the insults to our accounts, the accounts of our families, we work on it. It's their greatest punishment. Unfortunately, each of our results, each of Serbia's results is to them as if you had slapped them. Whatever they say, motivation is even bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7929	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7930	Thank you very much. I'll refer to the previous question or your findings. I didn't joke about cars at all, about other people's creation, about the Serbian people, about national minorities. I can tell that everyone was very active in competitions, especially national councils, especially in the field of culture. We found common language with the help of the commission and helped many good projects that preserve our tradition, no matter what people we belong to. As for the small environments and our attempt to contain young people in rural areas, in small municipalities, I want to give an excellent example, which is the place of Cicevic, the municipality of Cicicevic which covers 33 villages. So at the beginning of my term, I immediately supported the completion of the construction of a beautiful cultural centre in such a small environment, because when they told me 33 villages, imagine how many families and people who come in autumn and winter are in that very cultural center so that they don't close themselves in their homes at night. They have a library. They have a theater, a movie theater. It all ends now and I hope that all of us will be invited to the opening soon. It's a good example of how to develop smaller environments, not just our big cities. I want to tell you that, for example, Jagodina, as we are currently helping, it is certainly the end of the works at the Museum of marginal and naive art. It is a museum that preserves a treasure that is more valued abroad, for example in France, than with us and our goal is to go out with marginal and naive art in front of the French audience at the Cultural Centre in Paris. I hope we can open this new part of the Museum together of marginal and naive art when the work is over and I'm done. At the opening of the Interparliamentary Union, two years ago, in 2019, at my initiative, the Una Saga Serbika ensemble was presented by the Serbian wheel, and the audience was MPs, politicians and parliament presidents from almost 150 countries in the world. Is there better promotions for the wheel and for Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7931	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7932	Dear Maya, you and I have known each other for a long time, I was looking forward to it when you got that function. My discussion was not directed at you, as an observation, but as a suggestion of what else you could do, and to stimulate these young people who are in these folk sections, cultural and so on. So in the end, we both understood each other, and I'm going to ask you to come to the party, the first time I've organized it, and the president of the jury to be Prime Minister to assess who's better at playing -- whether you're me. Do you agree? I know you're a happy man. We can't function without music. Dear Ministers and Honorable Prime Minister, I am a man who lives inside and I can tell you that people are not too pleased, but they are satisfied with what is done. One more time to get you back to this farm. Please just talk to the farmers and tell them who determines the price of cereals, why is the price of milk the same for six years, and that the livestock food has been collected several times? How come from a liter of milk when processed 400 times more is earned than this gentleman farmer fights to produce every liter of milk in the country and thus we directly preserve both the village and the agricultural producers and so on. You know that there are quotas in the European Union for production, not just agricultural products. For example, we came to the signing of a contract with a factory called Inalpi, and it produces powdered milk from Italy, because they were abolished, I don't know how many thousands of cows they had, cut them in half, because it's an agreement in the European Union anyone who can produce it. I know very well how hard it is to live in the country, how hard it is to wait once a year to get to the steam if you have sown grain, corn or something else, but you must also keep saying what our agricultural producers have received as a subsidy and that we can freely say that we are comparing ourselves with some strong countries of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7933	Thank you. The word is Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7934	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a question for the Minister of Environmental Protection. Water pollution affects life and human health, and I would dare say that any pollution of the river or water returns as a boomerang to people. The main source of river pollution and other water resources in Serbia are industrial plants, municipal waste water from settlements and agriculture, meaning the use and use of artificial fertilisers and pesticides. One of the most polluted waters in Serbia is unfortunately Kanal Dunav-Tisa-Dunav in Vojvodina, a special part of this channel called the Great Back Channel is the most polluted. The large copper canal flows through the central part of Backa and represents one part of the DTD channel hydrosystem and connects the Tisa River with the Danube River near Bezdan and Becej. Because of the excessive pollution that began largely in the 1960s last century, it is also called an open wastewater collector with surrounding pig farms from the food industry and villages themselves such as Red, Tower and Vrbba. The polluting matter from this Great Babacanal is being transferred to Tis, and it is scientifically proven that nitrogen and phosphorus from its water via the Danube has also been shown to the Black Sea. However, in Serbia, the relations of the Borska river are too much. It is one of the most polluted rivers in Serbia and unfortunately in Europe. Many call it a dead river. As I said, the main causes of pollution in our rivers are municipal and industrial waste water. Communal waters, wastewaters are from households and reach through the sewerage into our rivers, and industrial waste water is unfortunately directly from the factory. Any pollution of the river affects its chemical regime and changes it. So, the long-term effects of our water ecosystems, our rivers, are being applied. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that there is some extinction of fish species such as kechiga, which likes clean water. Also, pollution of rivers for consequences has also been associated with the pollution of underwater waters. The groundwaters take part in the feeding of rivers from 30% to 40%. They are very slow renewable resources and are the consequences of their pollution in the long term. In Serbia, in the industry sector, a small percentage of factories have water treatment. The situation with small factories is that unfortunately they do not have enough resources, and large factories have increased or improved since they have money to invest in the construction of water purifiers. I come from Sainta, a town by the Tis River, and I can say that for more than 30 years, we've had a sewage purifier, and every factory that's been located by the river has its purifiers. At the end of last year, an agreement with the Council of Europe Development Bank was ratified, which approved funds to build a wastewater treatment plant. My question is, how are we with this program and how many purifiers will be built in the next year, two, three? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7935	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7936	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, I thank you first and foremost for this question because this issue is extremely important for the ministry of which I am headed. Of course, it's a complex topic when we talk about river pollution, but we're trying to fight it on multiple fronts, so to speak. First of all, one of the biggest projects, capital projects, are cleaning projects, wastewater treatment plants. What is intensively done in previous months is primarily the assessment of the sewerage network in units of local self-government that are candidates to get one plant that will be at the highest European standards. The funds of the Council of Europe's Development Bank have been provided at 200m euros and 26 purifiers are planned. What's each of the main questions is the tracking sewerage network because you mentioned your Santa purifier that's been working for 30 years, but in Senta, it's covered the sewerage network 90 percent. This is what is one of the main preconditions that the purifier works in full capacity, but certainly we are looking at the situation in the field and the readiness of local self-government units together with the Public Investment Office. What is important is that in many municipalities the construction of the facility plus the construction of the accompanying infrastructure, i.e. the sewage network, will work. That's what has to be done exactly the way we should and by the percentage required of us, and that's certainly over 70% coverage of the network in the local self-government unit and we're all going towards it. We are certainly all those units of local self-government precisely at the ready and divided into several stages and I can now tell you that in the first phase I will also be Baka Palanka, Priboj, Apatin, Nova Varoš, Bač, Bolovac, and then other municipalities and Petrovac on Mlava, Ruma, Razanj, Književac, Raška, i.e. Kopalnik. They're all candidates for municipalities, for purifiers, but before that, we need to get a good look at all the paperwork and we're moving very quickly with the production and tender documentation. I hope in the first municipalities and start these facilities by the end of this year. Of course it will significantly improve the quality of life of citizens and will clear rivers, and in the meantime, since we are talking about river pollution, I can say that environmental inspection is constantly on the ground. We're going out on citizen charges. We have reports of this and how many irresponsible individuals we have punished and how many criminal charges and economic offences are written. That's what we have to do. I'm certainly not happy when people are being punished, but it's the only way to raise awareness of how important it is just to preserve the environment. What's also important when we talk about water protection is that we work together with the water inspection, which is in the Ministry of Agriculture, that we're all on the ground, but also at the Ministry of Environmental Protection in the previous days, and end the competition for the removal of wild dumps, and I hope that the units of local self-government are right and these smaller dumps of candidate countries located on the banks of the river so that it is precisely this waste that there is a great opportunity to simply end up in rivers to remove. What I always appeal for are inspections of local self-government units to be more on the ground, and I must say that the ministry also separates significant resources for river barriers so that packaging waste can be easily collected at this point, i.e. the supply of river and Lim chains, therefore, in this municipality of Priboj and Prepolje and Nova Varoš, and certainly we will continue at the same pace and that other local self-government units will have the opportunity to compete on such and similar projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7937	Thank you. Mr. Peck, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7938	Thank you for your answer. My question is another matter of destroying the natural blue forests, for the sake of the wood industry. The blue forests are those forests located in the blue area by the rivers and in Europe there are very small forests left. Even 90% of their total surface has disappeared, and what remains often is in critical condition. The blue forests are considered the most endangered natural eco-systems in Europe, so in the European directive, habitats are identified as the priority type of forest habitat. The European Environment Agency's 2019 report states that some European rivers, unfortunately our Tisa too, have lost almost 100% of the former blue area. The Tisa River with the blue forest belt and defence dams is an ecological corridor of international importance. In Europe, these blue forests in many places have been replaced with trees plantations used for the wood processing industry. There's hybrid cannons. This way the entire eco systems disappear. Rarely, what river in Serbia has been changed as much as Tisa, people have taken the blue zone and turned it into hurricanes and plantations of hybrid poplars. Some rare species of birds have disappeared because of it, such as the eagle is a white, black stork, a forest owl. They can't make nests on topola, because there's no branched branches, like these old trees. Beekeepers can also confirm to us that once the flower dust of willows was the first pasha of bees and the willow was strengthened by the beekeeping society before going to the acacia. Heat in Serbia began to develop intensively in the middle of the last century, due to the need for industry. In Vojvodina, hybrid plantations accounted for 40% of the forest. In the Vojvodina area, a significant part of the blue forest of natural poplars, willows, oaks, watermelons are largely replaced with hybrid poplars. According to data from the Regional Institute for Nature Protection, natural willow and popola forests cover only 7% of the area of this corridor around the Tisa River, while oak forests make only 0.14%. My question is: Who takes care of the maintenance and preservation of these blue forests? Does Serbia have any plan to preserve this international ecological corridor?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7939	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7940	Thank you. It's also an extremely important question. I think you're talking about the things that happened in 2007 and 2008, when "Vojvodinasum" entered the process of seratification on sustainable forest management. So, the Nature Protection Institute was then unique and in agreement with the Resoring Ministry there was a seratisation and certainly a contract was made on business and technical co-operation. So one state check for a plantation conversion program in the woods to make up for it. What is important is that we have two compensation programmes and is certainly the first one brought in for the period from 2010 to 2019 and it is fully implemented, and the second programme is currently in force, 2020 to 2029, and certainly they are all in consultation with the Nature Protection Institute, but in this case it is the Regional Nature Protection Institute. He used to be unique, and now we've got the Krajina. Of course, forests are an integral part of nature, but in this case I would also like to talk, that is, that is, that is, the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, since "Serbishum" and "Vojvodinasum" are directly in its portfolio and the Forest Administration, as well as the resolution secretariat in the AP Vojvodina. What is important, and certainly I agree with you and that I recognized it immediately and the team located in the Ministry, of course a weak percentage of the noise, especially in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Therefore, immediately early this year, the ministry launched a competition for the deforestation and allocation of funds. I can tell you that there have been many units of local self-government in this competition, but 38 units have met all the conditions, and through that action left for 100 million dinars, 164,000 indigenous species will be planted. The conditions of the competition were to end by the end of the year that shaming from that contest and I hope that in October and November we will be able to tour that planting all together and support the units of local self-government and, of course, we will try again to carry out such competitions. It is exceptional that the ministry formed a department for co-operation with local self-government units. I can say that we have a large number of projects and municipalities in all our competitions, and I hope that we will all successfully implement all these projects together. Of course the ministry is following it, but certainly since it's October, November, so, by the end of the year, it was a condition and then we'll say that 164,000 seedlings have been planted and we'll continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7941	Thank you. Mr. Peck, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7942	Thank you for your answers. We can conclude that we have an assignment to preserve our forests, rivers and water for us, for our children and for our grandchildren. Serbia as a country is not very rich with water resources especially if we compare it with the countries in the environment, so we need to take care of water, especially drinking water and the water we use for life. Unfortunately, it's only 20% of the water we use is the quality water we use to drink, make food and stuff. The other 80% are used unfortunately for watering the gardens, for washing cars, and I don't know, I can say a lot more. So we need to learn a lot more about how to use this quality water and I hope that we will plant more and more forests, that is our goal for our children and our grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7943	Thank you. The next reported is Hadji Milorad Stosic. Just make sure we have less than 10 minutes left, so pick a question according to the time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7944	Thank you, Chairman. I won't be any longer than my previous colleagues. Dear President, the honourable Prime Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, I have a parliamentary question for the village's minister, Mr Milan Krkobibic. Dear Mr. Minister, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discussed several draft laws on the wider layers of our citizenship in the previous session. One of these draft laws was the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on specific conditions for the realisation of an apartment building project for members of the Security Forces. The PUPS Group "Tri P" supported changes and additions to this law in general. What is more important, and I want to point out, and that is that you as Minister for Agriculture in your performances are constantly pointing out and saying - we need housing for young couples and in the country if we want it to come back to life, and above all to raise the security of the state in an adequate way, and above all in Serbia's border areas. This is exactly what I'm saying in the context of the security of the state, because residents of these very border areas are a great guarantee of the security of the state. I would like to set an example of the field of Poljanica that stretches between Vranja and Leskovci, who in time had more inhabitants than the town of Vranje, and now there are only a few thousand. It is exactly the area that extends along Kosovo's Metohijske Municipality, Kamenica, Novo Brdo. Also, the entire border area of the Kurzumli municipality has been emptied and my question will go that way. Mr. Ministers, I have the knowledge that today, at the cabinet session, a regulation laying down a free allocation programme for the purchase of a rural house with a garden on the territory of all Serbia has been adopted. My question – can the state of Serbia and what it should do to ensure greater security of the state and some details of the regulation adopted today, through the stay or return of young people in these areas. That's my first question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7945	Thank you, Mr. Stosic. We'll see if there's room for the next question or that's it. We've got five minutes to go. Minister Krkobic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7946	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Brnabic, the honourable MPs, Mr. Stosic, your question is directly and specifically less descriptive and deserves a concrete answer. Indeed, today, the Serbian government has adopted a regulation defining a programme for the award of grants for the purchase of rural houses with a garden. It's a capital matter. On Monday, I'll be extremely specific, there's a contest on Vidovdan, not to be pathetic, but to be specific about giving some kind of symbolism. We want it easy, but I'm sure that south-north direction stays, but let's change his direction. We want them to find their roof over the head of some young people who are engaged in agriculture and live in joint households, but also some young people and women, who want to replace their own residential or difficult life problem in suburban or urban settlements with their own garden. That's, I'd say, a historic date today. Serbia is finally moving into a decisive battle to settle those houses. It's the first thing and it's the key thing. What I would tell you now, since there is not much time, MP Markovic is not here, we can expect a new programme soon to treat cultural events, above all in rural areas. We are preparing a event that will be called – a meeting of villages. At the same time, a question and culture were mentioned here. I'd like to narrow it down to a narrow form, in the form of a so-called. the traditional cultures where we will try to cultivate this traditional, cultural identity. It will be a special programme that will treat manifestations, but we will also try to restore objects, cooperative facilities, cooperative homes or cultural facilities to their purposes. It will be concrete programmes that will be undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture in line with the budget available in the next period. We should all support this programme for the purchase of abandoned or empty houses in Serbia. This is one of my requests for MPs, for members of the government, for all political parties whether they were in opposition or in power, this is our common patriotic act. We need to take him seriously. It's a mission that will last, and I hope on Vidovdan, on Monday, that it will be a real start. I think the time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7947	I thank the minister. Mr. Stosic, we have exactly two minutes. You want to use the right to comment?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7948	The possibility of giving others six minutes out of three, then it's realistic that I get some time. Thank you, Mr. Minister. My second question concerns Kosovo and Metohija...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7949	We don't have time for any new questions, just to comment if you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7950	At the same time, we had the same case of emptying the village in the cities and villages of KIM. What happened to us, which suggests that something like that could happen in other areas, especially in these border areas. We had a special session yesterday, i.e. the day before yesterday, at which the president of the state submitted two reports, primarily a report on negotiations with temporary institutions, but there was also a report on the work of the KIM Office. He brought out detailed negotiations problems, but he also made detailed investments that we made through the KIM Office. I was wondering if the funds were planned for KIM through the village care programs?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7951	The word has Milan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7952	I think honourable MPs that people from Kosovo and Metohija deserve a little attention and at least two three minutes, we owe them that much. Do we agree on that? Mr. Stosic, a programme that implies the development of cooperatives will also take into account several cooperatives from Kosovo and Metohija, and I expect that we will succeed in co-operation with the Office for Kosovo and Metohija to implement them. At the same time, here's one of my promises here. There is a place called Kosovo Kamenica, located in Kosovo's maritime region, around it gravitates about 20 villages. That's where we'll rebuild the home of culture. Here I call upon all those present, of course, if we create conditions that we can go there, and this will be a way to slowly create these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-24-0.u7953	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, since it is 19,00 hours, we are finishing work in the session session on parliamentary matters. I thank you all for your participation. Thank you Prime Minister, members of the government, thank you to the MPs. We'll continue work Tuesday at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence, I find the session to be attended by 103 MPs. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, please insert all cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 108 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present, and there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
