ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 117 MPs attend the session. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 142 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the People's MP Aleksandra Čotric. You have been presented the minutes of the 7th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: a total of 153, for – 146, did not vote – seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes of the 7th extraordinary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with the meeting of the Ninth Extraordinary Meeting of the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 233 MPs. According to Article 106(3), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been sent to you for an emergency session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the ninth extraordinary session in the 12th session, the following Dn e n i r e d 1 was defined. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges; 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the High Council of the judiciary; 3. Proposal for a Agricultural List Act 2023; 4. Proposal for a law establishing financial support to economic operators for the maintenance of liquidity and crafts under difficult economic conditions following the Covid 19 pandemic caused by the Sars Kova 2 virus; 5. Proposal for a law on the validation of the Covid 19 financial contract, support to the Serbian Government for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-capitalisation enterprises between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia; 6. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the International Co-operation of the Republic of Italy on the employment of members of the family of diplomatic and administrative and technical staff; 7. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Republic PublicProsecutor ;8 . Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of theCourt ;9 . The proposed list of candidates for the Council of the Regulatory Body for ElectronicMedia. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinović, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(1) of Article 170 and Article 192(3) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint, principled and uniform search be carried out on the 1, 2, 7 and 8 of the agenda in a single principle debate. Proposals for a law, not including a proposal concerning REM, which is a separate debate. National MP Dr Martinovic does not want to further explain the proposal, which is why I am putting him to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: total – 160, for – 156, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend this session by Maja Popović, Minister of Business Jacques Pavlovic, election member of the VSS from the judge's office, Jovan Ćosic, Assistant Minister Vladimir Vins, Senior Advisor at the Ministry and Jelena Tomic, Adviser at the Administrative Office of VSS. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Articles 157, paragraph 2, 192, paragraphs 3 and 201. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint, principled and unified search in the first principle debate. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is made by Minister Maja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8436	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of today's principle debate, I would like to present to you the most important solutions containing the draft law supplementing the Law on VSS and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges and to explain the motion for a decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor. These two draft laws aim to take the necessary steps to meet the commitments made in international acts, recommendations by the Council of Europe Group for the fight against corruption, as well as activities in the revised action plan for Chapter 23 – the judiciary and fundamental rights. GRECO recommended under the Fourth Evolution Round, recommending that the judge’s system of designing work be revised, by introducing qualitative criteria and by repealing the rules that unsatisfactory results and evaluations of system water to resolve the judges concerned. The revised Action Plan for Chapter 23 – Justice and Fundamental Rights provides for the amendment of the Law on Judges and the Law on the VSS in order to prescribe the Ethics Committee as a permanent body of the VSS, the regulation of the competence of the VSS for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ethics Committee and the regulation of the obligation to produce a report on the work of the Ethics Committee of the VSS on compliance with the provisions of the Ethics Code. In addition, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges provides for the erasure of the provisions on the basis of which, because of its intricacies, it is considered insufficient to carry out a judicial function, if the judge receives an assessment – it does not satisfy, in accordance with the criteria and criteria for the evaluation of the work of the judges, in order to comply with the opinion of 17 Consultative Council of European Judges. As far as the motion for a decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor is concerned, I would point out the following. In accordance with the procedure for the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, which was prescribed by the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, the State's Chief Prosecutors announced and announced a public competition on 13 May 2021 for the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor in the daily "Politika" and "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. Following the public competition, the State Major Prosecutors held at a session held on 15 June 2021 established a list of candidates for the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, while the government adopted a motion for a decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor and for the Republic Public Prosecutor, Zagorka Dolovac, at its session on 24 June 2021. Zagorka Dolovac was born in 1966 in Novi Sad. She graduated high school in the Sremski Karlovci in 1985. She graduated from the Faculty of Law at the University of Novi Sad in 1989, and passed the judicial exam in 1992. Since 1990-1992, she has been an intern at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad. Since 1992-1996, she has been an expert associate at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad. Since 1996-2003, she has been Deputy Public Prosecutor in Novi Sad. Since 2004-2007, Deputy District Attorney in Novi Sad. Since 2007-2009 v.d. The district attorney in Belgrade. Since 1 January 2010, Republic Public Prosecutor Zagorka Dolovac has undertaken numerous activities aimed at improving the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office in all areas of its competences in the past. As the Republic Public Prosecutor, she gave full support to the involvement of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the construction, audit and implementation of the most important strategic documents of the Republic of Serbia in the area of justice, all in order to strengthen the rule of law in the Republic of Serbia. During the term of office, she advocated an increase in the number of public prosecutors, prosecutors and other staff, and made sure that the public prosecutors were adequately equipped and trained, through continued training of employees' skills. It advocated the consistent implementation of basic principles in the work of public prosecutors in the light of the application of the principle of independence, impartiality, professionality, responsibilities, and also took steps to establish and improve the work of the Ethics Committee’s disciplinary bodies and the State Council of Prosecutors’ independent authorities. To provide maximum support to the Public Prosecutor's Office, it promoted interinstitutional co-operation and co-ordination of work with other state bodies. It improved international co-operation by the Public Prosecutor's Office through the opening of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office in Eurostat, allowing the Republic of Serbia to be a reliable partner in international co-operation. Under its leadership, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office has co-ordinated the process of establishing and strengthening the professional and technical capacities of the Special Anti-Corruption Department. As the Republic Public Prosecutor, she set priorities in the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the form of a decisive fight against crime, and in particular severe and modern forms, increasing the efficiency of criminal prosecution through further effective application of the prosecutor's investigation, an agreement on the recognition of guilt and the opportunity and strengthening of international co-operation, including active participation in the EU accession process, as well as rapid and effective international legal assistance, both in bilateral relations, and through European, regional justice networks such as Eurostat, the network of general prosecutors of EU countries and others. The Republic Public Prosecutor's Office has undertaken a number of activities under its leadership to meet the recommendations of the Council of Europe's National Risk Assessment Committee and the FATF Action Plan, for the sake of more effective process of money laundering, and in this respect has played a significant role in drawing up a national assessment of the risk of money laundering and the assessment of the risk of terrorist financing, adopted by the Government of Serbia on 31 May 2018, the Action Plan to implement recommendations from the risk assessment of money laundering and the risk assessment of terrorist financing, as well as new anti-money laundering strategies and terrorist financing from 2020 to 2024, as well as the Action Plan for its implementation, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 13 February 2020. Thanks to all the public authorities involved, as well as the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office in connection with the processing of money laundering, the Republic of Serbia has no longer been on the so-called so-called "Crime" since June 2019. The grey FATF list, which represents a great success and recognition for the work of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, including the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. As a Republic public prosecutor, she has taken up a number of activities in the fight against human trafficking, in line with international standards, often acting as a pioneer in the region in her activities. In this regard, it should in particular highlight the signing of the Memorandum of Cooperation with the NGO Astra, which signed in 2012 and the Viktemological Society of Serbia in 2015, with the aim of increasing the efficiency assessment of human trafficking cases. She introduced a specialisation in the criminal prosecution of human trafficking by setting up a contact with people for human trafficking cases in higher public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, who are specifically trained in this area, act and co-ordinate work in human trafficking cases. Representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office participated in the process of implementing a strategy to prevent human trafficking, especially women and children and protect victims for the period 2017-2022 and the accompanying Action Plan. In particular, it should be pointed out that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office signed a Memorandum of Cooperation in the area of combating human trafficking, on the basis of which the interior minister reached a solution on 26 September 2016 on the education of the Standing task force to combat human trafficking. In view of the increase in crimes committed with the element of violence, especially domestic violence, which has rarely resulted in a tragic outcome, it has taken decisive steps to improve the fight against domestic violence, along with interior ministries and other competent authorities. During her term of office, she improved bilateral relations with the public prosecutors and competent judicial authorities of other countries, leading to the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation with the Federal Prosecutor's Office of the Kingdom of Belgium, the General Prosecutor's Office of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Justice of France, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the General Prosecutor's Office of Romania, the General Prosecutor's Office of Bulgaria, the General Prosecutor's Office of the Kingdom of Spain, the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the Prosecutor's Office of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Greece, the Supreme People's Prosecutor's Office of the People's Republic of China and others. In this way, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office reached the number of 28 signed memorandums of co-operation, 17 of which with EU Member States. She advocated improving the status of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the State Council of Prosecutors, as well as the normative regulation of responsibility within the system. During the past period of her work, the public prosecutor's system has gone through the biggest modern prosecutorial and historical challenges. The work of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, in its mandate, set up an Information and Support Service for Damaged and Witnesses in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office, selected disciplinary bodies, the Ethics Code of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors, with guidelines for the application of ethical principles, has been developed an analysis of the burden of public prosecutors and public prosecutor's office holders and the Strategy on the exercise of the rights of victims and witnesses of criminal acts in the Republic of Serbia from 2020 to 2025, with the accompanying Action Plan, and implementation and programming of pre-accession EU funds has been carried out. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that the National Assembly will adopt the proposed laws in the voting day, especially given their importance for meeting the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia and that it will choose Zagorka Dolovac as the Republic Public Prosecutor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8437	Thank you. Is it possible that Mr. Jacques Pavlovic would like to speak? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8438	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will briefly explain to you the proposal for the presidents of 13 courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which were adopted at the session of the Supreme Council of the Court of Justice 28. Six. In 2021, and according to ads published on 13. 3. In 2020, the official messenger and 26th. 2. In 2021, at the official messenger. The High Council of the judiciary has decided to propose these 13 candidates, according to the first ad, to the President of the General Court in Ruma, Biljan Đurić, the judge of the General Court in Ruma; to the President of the Court of Commerce in Zrenjan Stojljkovski, the Judge of the Privredski Court in Zrenjanin; to the President of the Court of First Instance in the Court of First Instance in the Court of First Instance in the Court of Justice in the Court of First Instance in the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia; to the President of the Primora Biljan Perić, Judge of the Court of First Instance in the Court of Justice in the Court of First Instance, the Judges of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the University of the University of Ljubljana, the Generals of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia of the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of the Republic of Slovenia are the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia. In the accompanying material, you have been given longer biographies of these candidates, as well as the results they have achieved, by assessing their programmes and talks with candidates, and by the opinions of the courts and at the end of the evaluation of their work. If necessary, I will present this biography in more detail after a brief presentation, and now I will present only short biographies for these candidates proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary. At a session held on 28.6.2021, a decision was unanimously made to propose to the National Assembly for the President of the Basic Court in Backo Palanca, Jelica Vujnovic, the judge of the General Court in Backo Palanca. Jelica Vujnovic was born in 1959. The judge has been the Court of Fundamental Court in Backo Palanca since 1995, and has been acting as the court's president since 2010. The final assessment following the evaluation of the programme and the discussions with the Commission is "five". The main court in Bačka Palanca expressed a general positive opinion for this candidate with a number of votes - five, and by the competent commission to carry out the evaluation process and determine the performance of judges and presidents was assessed with the assessment "extremely performing the judicial function". When it comes to the basic court in Zrenjanin, the High Judicial Council unanimously decided to propose Judge Zlatoj Ankic to the president of this court. Zlatoje Ankic was born in 1967. The judge has been the judge since 1998, and in the period from 2014 to 2019 he was the president of the court. After the end of the term of office, he is acting as President of the Basic Court in Zrenjanin. His work programme and talks were rated "five", so the final score is "five". The basic court in Zrenjanin expressed a general positive opinion for this candidate, with judges giving support from 15.14. The competent Commission for the implementation of the procedure, evaluation and evaluation of the assessment of the work of the judges and the President of the Courts has been assessed as "extremely acting as President of the Court". As for the General Court in Ivanjica, the High Judicial Council unanimously proposed Judge Ljubis Tomicevic, the judge of the General Court in Ivanjica, to the president of the court. Judge Ljubisa Tomicevic was born in 1959. By the 2010 reform, he was the judge of the infringement authority, and after that, since he had no conditions for reelection, only in 2015 he was re-elected as the judge of the General Court in Ivanjica. His work programme was rated "five", a five-way conversation, so the final score is "five". The basic court in Ivanjica expressed a positive opinion for the candidate, with the support of three of the four judges present. The competent commission to carry out the evaluation and assess the work of the judges and the president of the courts has been assessed as "extremely performing the judicial function". As for the basic court in Petrovac, Mlava, the High Judicial Council unanimously decided that Stanoja Rajic, judge of Petrovac's primary court at Mlava, would propose to the president of the court. He was born in 1960. He was the judge of the Municipality Court in Žagubica from 1987 to 2009, and then the judge of the General Court in Požarevec, and since 2014, he is the judge of the General Court in Petrovac at Mlava. The final assessment he received after the evaluation of the programme and the evaluation of the talks was "four", and the Petrovac basic court at Mlavi expressed a general positive opinion for this candidate. The committee responsible for the implementation of the procedure, evaluation and evaluation of the assessment of the work of the judges and the president of the courts has been assessed as "extremely performing the judicial function". When it comes to the basic court in Prokuplje, the High Judicial Council proposed to the judge, Gordana Sokic, the president of the court, to most of the votes. She was born in 1966. She was the judge of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia between 1996 and 2003, and then the judge of the Municipal Court in Prokuplje until 2009. Since 2013 he has been the judge of the General Court in Prokuplje. Her work programme and talks were evaluated with "five" to get the final score "five". By the General Court of Prokuplje, she had a general positive opinion, and by the competent commission to carry out the proceedings, evaluate and determine the assessment of the work of the judges and the president of the courts was assessed as "extremely performing the judicial function". As far as the Infringement Court in Negotin is concerned, the High Judicial Council unanimously proposed that Judge Ana Jacimovic, the judge of the court, be proposed to the president of the court. She was born in 1976. The judge of the Infringement Court in Negotin since 2014, and the office of President of the Court has been performed since January 2021. The work programme and the conversation were overall assessed with the assessment "five". The Infringement Court in Negotin expressed a unanimous positive opinion for this candidate and was assessed by the competent commission to carry out the evaluation procedure and to establish the assessment of the work by the judges with "extremely performs the judicial function". As far as the Sudotica Criminal Court is concerned, the High Judicial Council unanimously decided that Tanja Vladusic Rudic is proposed as president of the court. She was born in 1975, and since 2006 she has been the judge of the Municipal Crimes Authority in Subotica. Since 2010, he has been Judge of the Criminal Court in Subotica. The President of the Court has been in office since October 2020. Its work programme was assessed by the Commission by "five", and the Criminal Court in Subotica expressed a unanimous positive opinion for this candidate, with the number of votes – seven, by the competent commission to carry out the evaluation process and determine the judges and the president of the courts' work has been assessed as "extremely performing the judicial function". As for the Chamber of Commerce in Zajecar, the High Judiciary Council unanimously proposed that Judge Dragan Jocic, the judge of the court, be offered as president of the court. He was born in 1974 in Zajecar. In 2014, he was first elected Judge of the Court of Commerce in Zajecar, and took office in December 2014. Both his programme and talks were assessed with "five", and his work was also valued with "extremely performing a judicial function". As for the General Court in Panchev, the High Judicial Council unanimously proposed to Judge Ljiljana Sindzic, the judge of the court, as president of the General Court in Panchev. She was born in 1960 and was elected judge in 1992. In the course of February 26th, it has been evaluated with "extremely performing a judicial function". Its programme of work and talks has been assessed as "five", and is currently serving as president of the court. As far as the General Court in Ruma is concerned, the High Judicial Council has proposed Judge Biljana Djurisic to be the president of the court. She was born in 1971. She was elected judge in December 2000, and since 2012 she has been judge of the Basic Court in Sremska Mitrovica, then in Ruma. Her work was also assessed by the assessment "extremely successful in performing a judicial function", a conversation and a programme of work with "five", and she has general support and the opinion of the collectives. As for the Chamber of Commerce in Zrenjanin, the High Council of the Judiciary has proposed Alexander Stojljkovski as president of the court. Judge Aleksandar Stoiljkovski was born in 1971, and was elected in 1999. He's the judge of that court. He has general support for the collective. His conversation and work programme were rated "five", and was evaluated with "extremely performing a judicial function". As for the Court of Commerce in Panchev, the High Judicial Council has proposed to Gordan Anic, judge of the court, as a candidate for the president of the court. She was born in 1974. The functions of the Court of Auditors have been carried out since January 2010. Its programme and talks were evaluated with "five", and work with "extremely performs a judicial function". Finally, as far as the Sombor Court of Commerce is concerned, the High Judicial Council has proposed Judge Biljana Peric, judge of the court, to the president of the Sombor Court of Commerce. She was born in 1979. Its programme and work have been evaluated as "five", and has been evaluated as "extremely performing a judicial function". He also has the general support of the collective. That'll be all. I would ask you, if you challenge any of the candidates, just to give us an explanation, within the meaning of Article 201. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8439	Thank you for your explanation. Do the committees want the word? The People's MP, George Dabic, has the word of the Justice Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8440	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister of Justice, with an associate, respected representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government supported today's session all the points on the agenda, for the simple reason we want to influence all those positive things when it comes to our country's accession to the European Union. First of all, the recommendations of the Group of the Council of Europe for the fight against corruption are clear and concern precisely these changes and additions that we bring today, and there is also the obligation of our country to Chapter 23 when it comes to the European Union's negotiating process. Therefore, the legal framework that we are going to change today, I am sure, by a large majority of the MPs, is precisely in terms of our further improvement in this accession process to the European Union. The main newspaper that we are about to adopt here today is the establishment of this ethical committee, as a permanent body of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which will aim to improve the use of the very ethical code among judges and once a year the Ethics Committee will refer to the High Council of the Judiciary a report that will define how much and to what extent this code is respected. What it certainly is a newspaper, is that now it will certainly be given even more to the independence of foreign judges. They'll have this body that will definitely decide on them. No one from the executive authority will interfere, nor has it been the case so far, in their own decision. It's going to be even harder to get the judge back, and we need to make that clear, even though it's been very difficult so far. It will now be even more difficult, given that a framework is adopted where one will no longer be seen, or according to the recommendations, as we have heard, of the European Court of Justice, number 17, where they say – the judge should not be removed only because he has received a negative assessment, which is viewed according to these objective criteria, when it comes to the quality of judgments itself, but only in situations where there is a certain degree of harm to the disciplinary responsibility that leads to inadequacy or, as it stands here, that the judge is ill or unable to perform his duties. Therefore, it will be even more difficult to bring the judge down, and it is certainly another major step towards the process that we are promoting only the judiciary, so they will absolutely have this one independence. The Ethics Committee that judges themselves choose will decide on their work. We, from the executive authority, respect all our obligations when it comes to the EU, towards the accession process, but only, this is important to point out, because we are constantly respected that we do not respect the independence of the judiciary, various other nebuloses, so to speak, we often hear in public. This government, the Ministry of which you are head, has never again given to the judiciary itself, that is, we have passed so much ingenuity on to the High Council of the Judiciary, that today no one can honor us that we here do not respect the independence of the judiciary. The process of changing the Constitution is heading that way right now. What's certainly important is to point that out here in this place, because we often hear I say, by the same people who are reminded of the citizens, in 2009 overnight replaced by 1,000 judges and 1,000 prosecutors, who left people out of work, just on the basis of incomparableness, or, in the absence of a party book. We promote the work of the judiciary, promote independence and meet all our obligations to the EU. We don't complain even when the president of the state loses his case in court, we don't complain when the judge doesn't listen to the prosecutor's proposal, and when they're banned from defending themselves from freedom, just because he's a member of the SNS, the former president of a municipality. We don't mind that they have their opinions and opinions, and we've never commented on these things in public, and all the time we have a situation with various tycoon televisions, various Stepanovićs and Majiqi, that we don't respect the judicial branch of power here. That's what people who go to a foreign embassy in the morning say in their opinion, a little bit at work this afternoon, and at night, they're necessarily on tycoon televisions where they spit on their own country, and where they directly violate Article 152. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly states that the judge has no right to be politically advertised and to give no political evaluations. We know how the higher court ends the indictments, first in the media, that tycoon, well, then only with parties in disputes, we know and how whoever goes and visits foreign embassies. In the end, it is also the duty of our services to monitor and to know absolutely what the pressures are on our judiciary, not by the executive authority, but by foreign centres that want to and how they influence high court cases here. Today's agenda includes Zagorka Dolovac's choice. Of course, in public, many different qualifications were heard by various van parties who gave themselves the right to discredit this woman and to speak all the worst about her, to announce some protests and various others, as they already do. We all know, on the streets trying to cause some unrest. We're just saying, Mrs. Dolovac was the only candidate, simply because none of the other prosecutors signed up to be her. No one had the guts to take over the fight against crime in Serbia, and that should be said clearly. As our people say, all the heroes have denied anyone. In the media, they announce that they will take the position which is difficult and how difficult it is, and then when the election comes, we know for ourselves that none of them wants to take over the fight against corruption and crime. Mrs. Dolovac has so far also had successful results behind her, since we know for ourselves how many years and months, the visible blow to crime by our country, and the fact that behind the lock today are the worst criminals they've ever committed, we've seen, the most monstrous crimes, committed in Belgrade. They're all packed behind the lock, it's enough evidence that Serbia and how it deals with crime, and how it deals with corruption. We do not spare our members, anyone who has sinned against the law will be sanctioned and that is, what is important to us today. We, of course, have and how I end up with this, I apologize that I've overstepped time, we and how we have nothing to ask only the prosecution, but when someone from the SNS does, we try to make it more argumentative, civilized and in no way affect the independence of the prosecution and the judiciary. We can't, without asking, we'd have to blame them for how that nobody is responsible for tracking President Vukic's family, how that nobody is responsible when they announce from the cover of the tabloids that one bullet should solve everything here, how that in Serbia everyone can announce here various, violent ways of coming to power. How come tycoons from the former regime, who, with 70,000 euros of reported income, came out with 619 million, have no indictments against themselves, and simply, we don't know how to justify, how to have prosecutors tell us today, someone who has 35 apartments in which he acquired it all. Where was the Anti-Corruption Agency? There are a lot of questions that we have from the SNS, to ask Mrs. Dolovac and the Serbian prosecutor's office, but when we do it, we do it in an argument, civilised, we don't announce any blood on the streets, and we're going to try to continue to be socially responsible, to be a party that is state-of-the-art in our country. There's a lot of questions, and there's little answer, and we're gonna have a chance to talk about it all. There's a lot of work to be done to improve the situation around our judiciary, to improve it, because it's the backbone of our country's system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8441	I would like to thank the Committee's representative. Do they want the word of representatives of the parliamentary groups? Authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8442	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Popovic and her associates, distinguished representatives of the VSS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we have important proposals on the agenda not only of the law, but we also have a proposal for a decision to elect a republican public prosecutor, as well as a proposal for a decision to elect a president of the courts, which was submitted by the VSS. First, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges and Proposal for Supplements, the draft law supplementing the VSS Act, represents the steps we take in accordance with the Action Plan for Chapter 23, which is called – the Justice and Fundamental Rights, which states that these two laws need to be amended or complemented, in terms of predicting the Ethics Committee, as the working body of the VSS, as a permanent working body of the VSS, in which today's proposals will be regulated and the competence of the VSS, in the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ethics Committee, but also the obligation of the Ethics Committee to submit at least once a year a report on the application of the Ethical Code. The Ethics Committee will have the right to decide on the procedures which violate the judge's dignity and independence and which proceedings may have been taken by the judges and that they violate the reputation of the court. Therefore, after the adoption of these proposals, the permanent working bodies will be a committee to evaluate the work of judges and presidents of courts, an election commission, an ethical committee, disciplinary bodies and possibly some bodies, permanent bodies of the VSS, which can be ad hoc formed. In this way, the level of responsibility is raised to a higher level and standards are established that introduce newspapers into a judicial system that will naturally fit our judicial system and whose application is expected to have only positive effects. Furthermore, the law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges provides for eradicating the provisions on the basis of which the unprofessional is considered insufficiently to carry out a judicial function, if the judge is given an assessment – does not satisfy, in accordance with the criteria and criteria for the evaluation of the work of the judges, in particular in order to comply with the opinion of 17, of the European Court of Justice. In order to make it clearer, the very opinion of the Advisory Council of European Judges states that the principles of continuity and non-movability are key elements of judicial independence and must be respected as such. Therefore, judges do not need to be resolved only because of a negative assessment, but in the case of disciplinary or criminal proceedings, which are being conducted or where the assessment procedure is inescapably concluded, which would mean that the judge is being unsuspectingly doing his job, which is either a disciplinary offence or unable to perform his duties, which means loss of working ability. So we see who is and in what way it is obliged to assess the expertise, or we see that there are bodies at different levels establishing criteria for judges. So it is in Serbia today, and as it was before, it is not bad to remember every time we can talk about it for a number of reasons. First, to bear in mind the actions of the authorities until 2012, which were critical in 2008 and 2009 for Serbia's judicial system, so which actions were then wrong, because they were directed, above all at enabling political influences on the judiciary. Secondly, today when we talk about these proposals, we are largely in the process of reforming the judiciary through amendments to the law, through amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in order to reach the levels of European countries and in this area not only to meet the obligations we have made by the EU, but to allow citizens first of all the rule of law and the rule of law in full capacity. I mentioned the previous rule of law, and I'm also going to mention today the 2009 reform of the judiciary that I have to say is very pathetic and funny, especially if you go a little deeper into the whole process and get into the essence of it, and I'm going to say why. In fact, this reform of the judiciary was a pure demonstration of the Democratic Party's force, a kind of intimidation of judges, an attempt to keep their politicians' main word, not only in Serbia, but in the judiciary of which they were interested in which people they were going to put, and when you look essentially at the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia, there was absolutely nothing arranged. Their reform did not involve working to repair laws or other acts, did not mean improving the work of courts and prosecutors, and on capital investments in infrastructure not to speak, because when I talk about reform, I also talk about providing judges and prosecutors with an appropriate condition for work, i.e. working conditions. Instead of better conditions for working and raising standards to allow citizens first of all adequate access to justice, we had politically set personnel, we had free to say maybe even ignorants at the judges' places, and hence we had ordered judgments, we had those who received instructions from political parties, we had on the other hand and persecution of judges who were not politically alike, and all of which unfortunately resulted in the collapse of the justice system and the enormous costs incurred by the state, and at the very end of the line the citizens of Serbia. It's up to us today to correct other people's mistakes. We are still paying a high price for someone's haughtiness today, and most importantly we are trying to give citizens a more efficient judiciary of more professional staff, reasonable procedures, adequate protection of their rights and through the adoption of laws to restore trust in the judicial system and ensure the rule of law but also standards that exist in the EU, because I say we are trying to be a full member of the EU. Of course, the situation in which the opposition leaders, and when we say it at this point, first of all, I think of Dragan Gilas publicly putting pressure on judges and prosecutors is at least worrying, but you'll agree that this is something neither my colleagues nor anyone can influence. On the other hand, however, we can ask the state authorities to do their job under the law, not at the request of a tycoon who insults the intelligence of honest and hardworking people who still pay the price today, such as his affairs while leading Belgrade. There are investigations, there are procedures, there are evidence, there are ultimately media that have introduced citizens to the fact that someone stored their money in accounts abroad. The question arises if everything is clear why accounts abroad? Why are accounts opened to different names? The question is, should we close our eyes when someone is using the leverage of the government for personal gain? All these questions are not just me, they are not only asked by MPs of the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, all these questions are asked by the citizens of Serbia and I am sure that sooner or later we will get answers to these questions. When we talk about the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, which is also on the agenda today, we should keep in mind the importance of the public prosecutor's office for the regulated social system, and therefore the importance of this, but also of the great responsibility that is assumed by the first public prosecutor in the country's ranks. Public prosecutors represent regulated state systems dealing with the protection of society through criminal law enforcement against the individual, by proposing a proportionate sentence for the criminal offence committed by the court. Public prosecutors in all countries of the world considered to be regulated democratic systems and countries where the first principle of rule of law is the fundamental principle of rule of law, is a hierarchical organisation that participates in the organisation of state-run division. The Public Prosecutor's Office is a fully independent state body whose position and function is guaranteed by the Constitution, and that such a body would function in a way that gives citizens the opportunity to be, above all, criminally and legally protected. The organisation and work of public prosecutors are organised in a hierarchical manner, with certain managers of these bodies at the head of public prosecutors. Given that the criminal justice system requires stability, that it requires reliability in terms of the validity of criminal law norms and protection authorities' reactions, such as that of the Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Office, it is expected that long-standing public-law work, integrity, respect for the law and respect for ethical rules of the profession is expected. What is important to emphasise for this application procedure for the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor is that it has so far been the most transparent procedure in the prosecution election process in terms of public availability. For the first time in the public selection of candidates for the Republic Public Prosecutor, the plan and the candidate's work programme was published on the public website of the State Council of Prosecutors without any restrictions. The state's major prosecutors timely announced the start of all scheduled electoral and other related actions with the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor. I would remind you that candidates for the Republic Public Prosecutor can come from any profession if they meet general and special conditions, perhaps of which the most important special condition is the twelve years of working experience from the passing of the judicial exam, but certainly, we should not ignore the general conditions in the form of completed law school, passed judicial examination and, of course, the dignity to perform the public prosecutor's duties. So there was a possibility for candidates who met the conditions to run, to present a work plan and function prosecutors for some period until 2028. This was done by Mrs Dolovac, who was proposed by the State Council of Prosecutors, with the support of the government, in the sense that the government is an authorised promoter. Then there were criticisms from different sides. In the prosecution profession itself are criticisms, I would say, mostly those who may have met the conditions, but they did not run, by system -- it is easiest to sit down, do nothing and criticise. But I would refer to what is more accessible to the public, to what the citizens of Serbia can see, and to the image and work of the Republic Public Prosecutor, and hence also the attack on the state and the intention to weaken the functioning of this body, and not only that, but also the attack on the minister of justice and the president of the Supreme Court of Cassation, is also an attack on the president of Serbia. I purposely left the president for the end, to point to a constant link to which the president of Serbia is exposed, but also to point to the dangers that would be put on Serbian citizens if such high state authorities were sabotaged in their functioning. Actually, I didn't print it, but I have one piece I'll read to you. On the Internet edition of the "Tabloida" for days is a text bearing the title, I apologize in advance – "Three whores of the sun god" which mentions the President as God of the Sun, but also mentions the Republic Public Prosecutor, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the Minister of Justice. The text was published as a reaction to Zagorka Dolovac's candidacy for the republican public prosecutor, which she had the right to, as well as all others who wanted to be candidates for republican public prosecutors. I will read to you one part: “The picture that Dolovac sees in the mirror is evidence of her incorrigible madness and an accident in which the judicial system of the even more unfortunate Serbian country, occupied by schizophrenic dictator Aleksandar Vucic, was engulfed. Picousti tyrant, whose feet are also in the mud to her knees, sees salvation in the most dense dictatorship." Now we have a situation where dictatorships and censorships are objecting to the same Alexander Vukic, for whom these things are written. You'll agree, if censorship, this text has been on one portal for days, it wouldn't be if we were to talk about censorship. If it were a dictatorship, something like this shouldn't be written. Often the MPs ask and call on the state authorities to respond to these things, because today we are talking about it... We can also talk about whether someone is offended by this text, but today we are talking about how dangerous the consequences of this text can be for individuals mentioned in the text, but also how dangerous the consequences can be for the state, and the text mentions representatives of the state, representatives of the highest state authorities. Is it possible this stopped being news to Gilas' media? Is it possible that at this point no one has condemned it, none of them, or has at least been fenced by the kind of vomit we could have read? Is it possible for this to become normal in Serbia? Why is it normal and allowed to attack them daily, and first Alexander Vukic, who takes care of state and national interests, those who inherited the disaster in the judiciary and now do their best to repair the situation in the judiciary, those who guard and protect the integrity of the state, those who are in the first lines of battle when the biggest problems arise and when they have to make the most difficult solutions? You can love or not love Alexander Vukic or SNS, the fact is that it is the best policy that has ever happened to Serbia. Aleksandar Vucic, who reminds you, who has recently launched the fight against crime and corruption and publicly supported the state authorities to do their job, in accordance with the law, while Dragan Djilas, who claims to return to power, holds conferences in front of the prosecutor's office and puts pressure on the judiciary, while Vuk Jeremic threatens to arrest and prosecute political insinuators, while Lutovac announces lustration, revenge and retribution for all officials, and even for members of the SNS alone. It is then transmitted by media controlled by tycoon money, dirty money, which has been kidnapped by Serbian citizens and the daily criminalisation of Alexander Vukic, his family, his associates, and, worst of all, through his media is constantly revitalising the fight against crime and corruption. They even put aside the arrested leaders of criminal groups and the criminal clan. Now, all of a sudden, they're not criminals anymore, they're fans' supporters, and we're bored with the euphemisms they're using, trying in every way to negate the state's efforts to settle once and for all with organised crime in Serbia. However, we will continue to call on the state authorities to examine every case, to bring the perpetrators to justice, because, above all, Serbian citizens deserve to live in the rule of law, regardless of what we in the SNS are, above all, completely depersonalised. We are no longer people with a name and a last name, with careers, with education, with integrity, but when any of us shows up to stand by Alexander Vukic and fight the mob, we only have a target at the head, and we know that in the tycoon media we will be crucified. As I said at the beginning of the presentation, today we are also talking about a decision on the election of the President of the Courts, of which Serbian citizens expect to behave in accordance with the law, to provide them with the protection of their rights, which through the regulation of the functioning of the courts, through the judgments they make. What I can safely say is that Serbia is a different country than it was in 2012. It is much better and much more advanced than in 2014 or 2016 and, when I say so, I certainly think of the situation in the judiciary, because we daily try to raise the judicial system to the highest level. The reforms we are conducting in the area of justice years ago and the efforts we are making to create an effective, independent and independent judiciary show our willingness to fix the situation in the judiciary, but also the willingness to carry out the commitments that we have made as a state in the EU accession process. Judges share justice, judges judge and strike a balance when a right is violated, settle disputes. In some ways, they solve social relations disorders and play an important role in the functioning of a democratic society that exists today in Serbia. We are with the representatives of the judiciary on a joint task, to ensure that the judiciary is independent, impartial, effective, above all, so that citizens are satisfied, equal to the law in the exercise of their rights. On the other hand, judges must be competent, dignified, professional, with highly developed moral traits and certain integrity, and they must worry about it themselves, but it is our duty, the MPs, that we also worry about it when we are in parliament choosing judges who are first elected to the judicial office or the presidents of the courts. The reputation of every judge makes the reputation of our judiciary with us, but not just with us, but in the international community and all of us care about it. Finally, from the proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary, which is before us today, I would challenge, namely, the following candidates I propose to vote for, that the National Assembly on their election be particularly clear: for the President of the Basic Court in Zrenjanin Zlatoje Ankić, the judge of the basic court in Zrenjanin; for the President of the General Court in Prokuplje, Gordana Sokić, the judge of the General Court in Prokuplje; for the President of the General Court in Pančev Ljiljana Sindjic, the judge of the General Court in Pančev; for the President of the General Court in Ruma Biljana Đurić, the judge of the General Court in Ruma. In accordance with Article 201. The Rules of Procedure, I am also obliged to give an explanation, and I will begin the argument by saying first, do not make any of you angry with the Messengers of the people for doing their work. We are obliged to listen to citizens who have very often something to tell us. We have a responsibility to be in touch with state authorities that can provide us with different information and often, unfortunately, I have to say, we get information that bothers us to support certain candidates for judges or presidents. There is serious information that says that these candidates I have read do not meet the basic conditions or criteria for selecting the President of the Court, that in our career there are details that hinder us, as I said, to support these candidates. I would return to contact with the citizens, because, believe me, they often have something to tell us, and they chose the political parties that have delegated us here. They gave votes to these political parties to make us their real representatives here and to do our job. So this is what I'd end up with. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8443	Thank you. The word has the vice president of the National Assembly Dr Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8444	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with an associate, respected representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, at the very beginning, I would like to thank the College of the National Assembly, who had the understanding for us, members of Islam, on yesterday, when we had the first day of the Kurban-Bajram and therefore delayed the meeting of the National Assembly for one day. This, above all, has been of great importance to us, because we have been shown respect, and on the other hand, we are allowed to be here today with you and participate fully in the work of the National Assembly, but this gesture and this decision is much more than that. It presents a message not only to the MPs, members of Islam, but also to all members of Islam in the Republic of Serbia, especially what is happening for the first time since this National Assembly exists, and it is also not a binding category by law. That's why I want to transfer the impressions myself from the citizens. So this was accepted in the most beautiful way possible and understood as the most significant and very important message to the citizens, and I am sure not only to the citizens of Islamic religion, but also to all citizens who share the value of mutual respect and respect. I will also take this opportunity to congratulate all members of Islam Kurban-Bajram, one of the most significant two solemn mubaraks of the year. It is a solemn day for the believers of Islam, which is reflected in sacrifice and social solidarity, and therefore, here, I want that the rest of the days of this Bajram, I stress that this holiday lasts for four days, but here we are already the second day here with you and we do not lack acquired feelings, because we are able to receive congratulations from our colleagues, which is actually a very important aspect of the marking of these days. Now I'm going back to the very subject of the agenda. The subject of justice, justice, including the prosecution, is one of the most inexhaustible and inexhaustible topics that we, the MPs of this house, face very often. As much as we're talking about it, I'm sure we won't exhaust all the material and all the things we need to say, either once or twice. So to judge, as you can clearly see from this concept, means to take up on someone and on something court, to state a certain provision, and that means to determine a relationship with someone and something, to determine, after all, and someone's status between freedom and prison, between punishment and freedom from punishment. So it's something that both language and termologically contains the fullness of its meaning, which, above all, points to something that requires the highest degree of responsibility in the overall systemic functioning of the country itself. On the other hand, there is no possibility of healing society without full recovery of the judicial system. Of course, the justice system is not the only one representing a strategic category or a strategic pillar of survival and the quality of a society. That's what we've been talking about. I will remind, therefore, the judge, priest, doctor and teacher, the palace of justice, i.e. the courtroom, hospitals, temple and schools, these are four key pillars of survival of the quality and prosperity of each community. Others, let's say, segments or entities of society, other institutions and institutions, all of them have a certain meaning, but these are these key four strategic pillars, corner pillars on which one system rests. Their collapse does not mean collapse of just that segment of society, but it means the beginning of the collapse of the entire system. That's why the judiciary, exactly what I'm talking about, is the subject that we have to deal with and the subject we're going to have to deal with, permanently and over and over again, until we experience that the justice system is at least to the human extent of perfection, even though the perfection in the human part exists. Only God's work is perfect, man's work is also in perfection very relatively and limited. Thus, both human justice and justice, which a man utters in the form of a judge or a judicial council, is relative, can sometimes be even wrong. But what we expect and ask of the judge and the judicial system, or what we seek, is full commitment to expertise and the intention to make judicial decisions justly or to the most significant extent possible just. And that's the ideal that we're actually trying to do. Of course, these legal solutions will contribute to the healing of the judicial system, its improvement, and, if not to the full elimination of a number of shortcomings, it will certainly improve the basics, frameworks or pillars on which those who wish to perfect the judicial system can have a good basis for this. This is the purpose of these system laws, including the Law on Justice, not to solve all problems in the judiciary, but to get a healthy framework or a healthy podium on which we will further improve and treat the judicial system. Of course, the idea itself, a very correct, certainly, separation of the judicial authority from the executive authority is something that makes no sense to discuss in principle, but operationally and in terms of implementation we know well how sensitive this subject is and how much when we go down to the field of implementation of this principle, we have a problem where exactly this line of separation lies, given that the judiciary is also an integral part of the state system, given that judges, in addition to representing the bearers of one of the most common roles in society, are at the same time people. In addition, they are members of a group at the same time, which means they have their own interests and where that border is separated from the very supervision of the judicial system, certainly that the concept is so set up to go simply within the judicial or judicial system itself, headed by the VSS, is actually being controlled and controlled. We also have these announced constitutional changes concerning the judiciary, where it will in some way reduce the role and representative bodies, or the National Assembly as regards the appointment of judges, which makes sense, but on the other hand, it remains open whether it is possible in the judicial system to supervise itself. It's a principled problem and it's not just about the judiciary, it's about other segments. Otherwise, it's very controversial, no matter what the profession may be, the separation of this government from other segments of government is potent. However, this problem remains open, for the simple reason that we have various problems that actually indicate that the other risk and other dangers from one system that is completely isolated from other segments of government in terms of control and control. So there is a serious risk of him deforming himself and becoming an interesting community that serves himself. It's something we can't ignore, something we can't say doesn't matter and there's no such danger. Especially since we have certain practices, certain events that have grown even in certain cases that we can't just ignore and say, so it has happened, it will take some time. So we MPs must be what we are by definition, so representatives and MPs, representatives of the people, representatives of the citizens who elected us, representatives of the communities from which we come, and we cannot remain silent about the questions they ask. We in Sandzak have three cases, very important cases that continue to disturb the public, which concern certain behaviours of the judicial system in these cases. Why can't they be forgotten? Because they are so drastic in their nature and with regard to the specificities of these events, but also with regard to the judgments made, i.e. the conduct of the judicial system according to these events. The first case occurred in 2012 when, under certain circumstances, the death or murder of a police officer in the Tutina area, where we ended up with this judicial epilogue. He was accused of certain Fahrudin Mavric and was sentenced to the most severe sentence - 30 years in prison. So, there was an alleged murder case in the car, where, according to the court, Mavric allegedly took a gun from a cop and killed another cop with that gun. Theoretically quite possible, but there was also a lot of controversy when it came to this case, even the family launched private skills that led to some other indicators or at least very vague circumstances. So, we have this case where a citizen allegedly killed a police officer, a severest punishment has been imposed. The second case takes place in 2017, same in the Tutina area, where in this case a police officer killed a citizen of Scarep Fahrudin, who drove by a car and allegedly refused to be stopped. So it's clear that the shot from the outside through the car glass and the citizen was killed. That case got his court epilogue. I think the verdict is five years in prison. So six times less judgment. So, even the cop who did this says he refused to stop and that he thought he was in danger. So it was found that the citizen who was driving that car had no weapons, there was no danger, even if it was true that he refused to stop the car, where was that shot in the car if someone didn't want to stop? I mean, if we put in that bang, these mobsters and criminals would boast at the police who wouldn't stop, they'd all be killed long ago. So we have this drastic situation where we have on one side the murder of a police officer by a citizen, on the other side the murder of a citizen by a police officer, six times the difference in sentence. We have a third case that took place in 2019, here in Belgrade, I mean on Emperor Dusan Street, where the young man Bakan Ernad was wiped out at the pedestrian crossing, crossing regularly at the pedestrian crossing, the car hit him, he lost his life. That case after two years, we have information that just some pre-examinations have happened, nothing more. So, lost young life, a student, a completely clean situation at a pedestrian crossing and we have now obstructions, especially if the exact information, that that someone who's the perpetrator is someone important, someone's important, they're all rumors now. To ignore it, we have what is the formal side of the procedure itself. So, in all three cases, even if we add that in the case of the murdered and the murderer, or the perpetrator, were convicted or convicted in both cases, we have the ethnic diversity of Bosniak-Serbian, Serb-Bosnjak. So if we add that as aggravating factor in the understanding of the procedure itself, then you realize how important these events are and how much these events, or how many of these murders that have happened, cannot be treated as quite ordinary and completely procedural. So these are the things we have to shed light on. As you can see, in the presentation, I am making it as difficult for me to get into the details of the interpretation of the verdicts, the determination of the proceedings. I'm aware of the sensitivity of this question, and these are some things that a healthy logic simply requires. We can't... So, yes, there is a strictness in a particular criminal act, an additional severity, so to speak, according to the official faces, unbalanced faces, but it can't be so drastic. We can't say now that the life of a policeman is more expensive six times than the life of an ordinary citizen. In this case, we have these parameters, I say, that are initially inevitable. I'm shutting down here just determining responsibility through the procedure, even though there are certain doubts. We can't simply have such drastic phenomena and in any case again, I'm tightening, I say, but to the harm, in this case, either the perpetrator or killed in the case of members of the Bosniak people. I'm saying, I put that in the last place, not to use it as an asset and I said it was because of it, but I'm just telling you how sensitive it is, among other things, and for that. I'm saying all this here right now to illustrate the relationship, or the state of the prosecution, especially since it's not the first time I've talked about it in New Market. So when you have a problem, so you need a lawyer and you ask about lawyers, who you hire, and there you are looking for a capable lawyer, a successful lawyer, you hear the answer, when someone recommends that you hire or whom you hire, no one says – this lawyer is capable, he will defend you in quality, professionally. No, he has connections, he has good connections and there are tariffs. You know exactly how many tariffs that verdict costs. So it's something that's so obvious that we really can't stick our head in the sand and say that it might be individual cases. No, on the contrary, it's a phenomenon, it's something that's completely common there and definitely, after the adoption of this law, or parallel to a fight that's going on or with the effort we have here through the insistence that, together with the promoters, with the government, we bring quality laws with the ministry. What's the main battle is getting down into crocodile bars, so, in certain parts of this country. I'm really talking about what I know. So I can't tell you what's going on in other parts of the country. I'm sorry that I have to talk to Bajram myself that way, because my political opponents, when I talk about these issues, say, "You're a bad New Market." I speak uglyly of the New Market. When you tell the truth, with the greatest sadness and the ugliest sense of what's going on in your city, that is, my city and the city I live in, then I'm talking ugly about the city. So, yes, I speak uglyly of the dark sides of my city, my Sandzak, and I will speak, and I will not give up as long as these ugliest and ugliest phenomena caused by corruption or caused by various other degrees of inadequacy and irresponsibility... So, my patriotism actually confirms this, not by covering irregularities, covering crime and covering corruption, but by disclosing them. So, I'm going to do it at a local level and in my range, and at a republican level, and along with all those at the level of government who want it, who have so declared themselves, with whom we have reached certain agreements and agreements to fight together. Of course, on that road, we will only be successful if we remain consistent and only if we really bring out everything we know and what we have evidence of, whether it's bitter or sweet at that point. In this respect, we will certainly give support to these proposals and legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8445	I thank Vice President Zukorlic and join the congratulations on the holiday. The word is made by Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8446	First, I'd like to congratulate you on the holiday of you and all your countrymen. What I'd like to answer about these two cases that you've cited, unlike the penalties that have been imposed. You didn't tell those people what was put in the indictment, or I'm assuming in the indictment, given that the fatal outcomes are at the end. If one person is accused of committing murder, he will receive a threatened sentence for murder. However, if we're talking about the officer who fired the gun, I'm assuming given the sanction, that it was a matter of overstepping the limits of authority or abuse in work, or it was a necessary defence. So it's very delicate when it comes to court proceedings, delicately when we don't have a case in front of us, when we don't have a criminal act, when we have no evidence. I don't want to comment in such a casual way, especially if it is relevant, if we draw a line between Bosniaks and Serbs. I think we're all citizens of Serbia, and we should be equal in front of the law, and I'm sure that's not what old people do. However, if you have knowledge, since you have said that certain items can be settled, bought, I ask you to file a criminal report in any such case, given that the obligation of all of us to know that a certain crime has been committed, the obligation of any man in our country to file a criminal offence with the competent MUP or the prosecution. As for this third case that you mentioned, you were asking that question to my predecessor as a parliamentary question, I didn't get that question, but I'll definitely ask around and report you to the next Assembly on what's going on with this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8447	Replica. MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8448	Dear Minister, thank you, first of all, for the particle. Thank you for your comment, too. These are three important topics, and I am pleased that you plead and thus show your own responsibility and attention to all that is said here in the National Assembly. So, I'm very familiar with it, and that's why I'm careful when I present these qualifications, but all of this can be further explored and professionally and expertly. I just wanted to show this that there are certain qualifications, and we know well, whether it was from the prosecutor's position and whether it's from the judge's or the judge's position, and those qualifications are a matter of judgment and the will of a man and they can be just and unfair. So it's very clear, and I agree that we should be very careful here. I'm careful, but when it comes to life and death and the experience of someone who's damaged in terms of family first of all, then it's not so crucial whether there's a qualification for over-authorization or necessary defences, etc. Of course it certainly does, but I just want to give it one more undertone. The question of justice, the question of justice, the question of our desire and our intention to truly satisfy justice is very important and that we never close that topic. What's important to me is that we restore the trust of the citizens in the judiciary, because if we don't have it right, we can formally shut the case down, but the real gaps, especially, why I mentioned this issue of ethnic differences, not to use it as an asset or don't let God make some accusation, but to show how sensible it is and how important it is to us in those parts of the country, where there is this ethnic, I end up a colleague, there is a difference that we need to further work to restore that trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8449	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS parliamentary group, Sanja Jefic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8450	Thank you. In the context of a united debate today, we are discussing several draft laws and decisions relating to the judiciary as a special branch of government, and I hope that today we will have a constructive discussion, which will result in a clear picture of the purpose of their adoption. The Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia have established standards regarding the independence of judges both in the conduct and in the decision-making process, and I particularly stress that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly prescribes independence of the judicial authority. By further developing this constitutional principle, it would practically mean that state authorities and individual holders of functions must provide both material and functional independence, so that the judge is not obliged to explain to anyone, or even to other fellow judges or to the President of the Court his legal considerations or established legal facts, unless he explains the decision or where the law explicitly states in situations where that is necessary. The above-mentioned constitutional and legal guarantees can be considered adequate and a number of research and scientific papers on this subject testify. So we can say that the standard, I'll call it the integrity of the judge is at a satisfactory level in our country. You will agree with me that an analysis of this topic should be based on an appropriate sample of the opinion of the Ethics Committee of the High Council of the judiciary, which would, among other things, identify the exact number of decisions of the Ethics Committee of the High Judicial Council in relation to the total number of requests, which is not the case. In fact, there is an impression, although I refuse to believe that the Ethics Committee of the High Council of the Judiciary is established, but it does not fully carry out its ingenuity, and I think it is some task that stands in their next period. Evidence of such a claim can be found in GRECO's second report on the compliance of the Republic of Serbia in the fourth round of evaluation adopted in October 2020 and it strongly recommends Serbia that the judge's labour assessment system be fully audited. The report states that, among other things, the Ethics Committee should provide written guidelines on ethical issues, but also to achieve other results within its competence. In addition, it has been established that the Ethics Committee of the High Council of the judiciary has not yet begun to carry out its mandate on judicial ethics, that the Ethics Code for Prosecutors has not yet been adopted, and that further steps should be taken to effectively transfer ethical issues to judges, but also to prosecutors and thus provide valid guidance and confidential counselling on their part. Let's get in line. The Ethics Code of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors was adopted in April of this year. The 2013 amendments to the existing 2013 Code are based on recommendations prepared by experts from the Council of Europe under the joint EU and Council of Europe – strengthening the independence and accountability of the judiciary. Furthermore, the adoption of amendments and additions to the laws that we are discussing today, I mean the Law on Judges and the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, is a step forward towards meeting the recommendations set out in the report, and they concern the revision of the judge's work assessment system. In this whole process, I think it is extremely important to draw attention to the role of the High Council of the judiciary in terms of providing stronger support and the integrity of the judges, but also to giving an even stronger reaction to all forms of pressure on the independence of judges, including media pressures and statements of politicians and public figures. The High Council of the judiciary must take full account of its acts and its activities, but also fulfil its legal role as an independent and independent body providing and guaranteeing the independence and independence of judges. One large part of this role by the High Council of the judiciary is indeed realized, and the other part will certainly be realised if this law, or these laws, are adopted on the day when we declare them, and in particular I mean the establishment of the obligation to report on work, but also the application of the Ethics Code by the Ethics Committee itself. In addition to the above, he thinks it is very important to step up the work of the Ethics Committee of the High Council of the judiciary itself and make it transparent in order to ensure that its decisions, as well as the practice, have a greater impact on the rules, but also on the more successful application of the Code itself that we have recommendations on. If the role and functioning of the Ethics Committee were to be defined most simply, this would mean, firstly, that it should give a principle of opinion on the behaviour of the judge-holders in relation to the rules of the Ethics Code, that it should adopt written instructions and practical guidelines and, in particular, carry out confidential consultations with the applicant. I think that this clearly and precisely defined task must be unconditionally but also cumulatively fulfilled in order to amend the laws that we are talking about today really have a purpose. In addition, it is our obligation to amend these two laws in accordance with the revised Action Plan for Chapter 23, by establishing an Ethics Committee as a permanent working body of the High Council of the judiciary and by determining its competences as well as obligations. On the other hand, I must say that the perception of the users of the justice system on the integrity of judges is favourable but is still not fully satisfactory, but according to surveys conducted by civil society organisations, even more than half of the respondents consider the integrity of judges to be extremely high. In addition, the vast majority of them, as much as 85%, estimate that the judge has acted very professionally in each of the proceedings before him during the very duration of the proceedings. The observed regional most favourable assessment of the professionality of judges is in Vojvodina, while it is relatively the smallest in southern and eastern Serbia. As regards the President of the Courts, as one of the points we are discussing in the context of a united, i.e. a joint search at one of the previous sessions, it is clear that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's position on this matter, in the sense that the presidents of the courts, other than the powers prescribed by law, must be more open and transparent to the public in order to better understand all that they are doing. If the procedures they take are not transparent enough, it is natural that due to the lack of information they are misread and interpreted, and on the presidents of the courts it is the task of maintaining both the reputation and integrity of the court for whose work they are responsible. Our MP group, in that sense, really wants a lot, a lot of success. In the end, the legal framework of our country is really good. The important steps Serbia has taken, verified, have also been verified by professional bodies in the EU. That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support amendments, i.e. amendments and additions to these laws in the voting day, making them necessary for the full establishment of judicial independence, but also for the development of justice in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8451	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Single Serbia Group, Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8452	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry of Justice, the Honorable Representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Today we are talking about a set of laws and decisions in the field of justice, more specifically the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, the Law on Supplements to the Law on the High Council of Justice, as well as the Decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor and the election of the President of certain courts. Of course, right at the beginning, let me say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all these legal solutions and these proposals for decisions. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges includes our judicial system of obligations taken from the recommendations of GREC, the Group of States of the Council of Europe to combat corruption, as well as the activities of the revised Action Plan for Chapter 23 – Justice and Fundamental Rights. This, as well as the amendment and additions of the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, is prescribed, among other things, by the Ethics Committee as a permanent body of the High Council of the judiciary. Namely, in Article 15. The Law on the High Council of the judiciary, alongside the Commission, for the evaluation of the work of judges and presidents of courts and disciplinary bodies, as a new permanent body, is also established by the Ethics Committee. These amendments to these laws, the Law on Judges and the Law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary are increasing, so to speak, the degree of independence of 10/2 MJ/CG of the judicial office, which also determines the independence of the judicial branch of the judiciary and thus takes another step towards harmonising our justice system with EU justice systems. The ruling majority has been defined as a European path and insists on that path despite problems occasionally stemming from the fact that double European policy standards have surfaced, when it comes to Serbia. The European path and European standards are something that this ruling majority is seeking, of course, with the preservation of elementary state and national interests, of course, and the preservation of the elementary dignity of the Serbian state. The ruling majority and its representatives do not run two policies, one for the internal electoral body and one for the international community, as some predecessors once did. This government leads neither pro-Western nor pro-Kingean nor pro-Kingean, but runs one policy, leads a pro-Serbian policy. We have clearly set goals both when it comes to state and national interests and clear objectives in the development of our economy and living standards of the population. This government tells citizens in advance at what pace the standard of living will grow and what goals we aim to achieve in this regard. It's never been before. Serbia today is politically stable, economically secure, health security and as such a leader is in the region on both foreign investment and economic and any other issue. The enforcement authority shall not interfere with the work of the judicial authorities. On that point, I am sure that we have reached European and world standards. We of Unity Serbia certainly respect the independence of the judicial branch of power, do not interfere in any way with the judicial authorities, as they do and try to manipulate the media with our judiciary of individual opposition parties. We have these eclectic examples of manipulation and abuse of judicial authorities by individual opposition politicians from parties. Perhaps the most impressive example of domestic violence committed by Dragan Gilas, over his wife Ivo Gilas in 2014, which the competent institutions did not react to even though there was an official note made in the Vračar Pu. Or perhaps we can talk about media manipulations with the judicial authorities of Marinika Tepic, the most paid worker Dragan Dilas, who in the media, instead of the judicial authorities and institutions, presents the most disgusting lies against the most responsible persons in the country, is the most reprehensible lies against our party's president Dragan Markovic Palma, and, in this case, did not file any charges against those lies, nor did the case against Dragan Markovic Palma, and thus gave the prosecution the basis for handling. I read today in the newspaper that Marinika Tepic is bothered by the publication of video material about the crimes of Veljak Belivuk and his criminal group. Apparently, it bothers because it destroys evidence. Of course that doesn't destroy evidence, of course nothing that didn't go public without the prosecution's agreement. You see, she's upset with public publishing something that really happened, something that's been proven, and she doesn't mind going public first, not in the judicial authorities and the prosecution, letting go of that shameless lie about Dragan Markovic Palma. Because she can, she doesn't need the prosecution, she doesn't need institutions, she's alone and the police and the prosecutor and the judge. He should stop calling the witness Branislav Radosavljevic, because he is not. He's a criminal, he's a liar, he's the party's party activist Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic. That's the man whom Marinika promised never to reveal his identity and thus protect him for his lies. Of course, we discovered it in 15 minutes and found out who it was. Of course she didn't even report Dragan Markovic to Palm for those false accusations. She didn't do it, because she knows she'd been sued for false reporting, but she has asked the D.A. to act even though the same prosecutor's office has ignored her as an institution, but has already gone to the media with her lies. Dragan Markovic Palma is the one who went to the prosecution, respecting the institution and asked to act on the false allegations by Marinika Tepic. Then, through the media, she pressured the prosecution to move the proceedings from the Jagodina prosecution to the Royal Prosecutor's Office. When media pressure succeeded and transferred to the Kingdom, she asked for the case to be transferred to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime in Belgrade, which is not responsible for these matters, and gave a statement in front of the royal prosecutor's office that she had received a promise that the case would be transferred to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, which was also a lie and was nothing but another political manipulation by the prosecution, i.e. that important and important state authorities. Such behaviour should be condemned by all, including the European institutions, because this is not the behaviour of someone who advocates European values and who constantly muds our judicial authorities with these European institutions. To remind me that these same Djilas, Marinika and other mutants who came from a political mutation from the Democratic Party, while they were in power, they treated the judiciary as their party body and, through lawyers, remember that unfortunate Niš Ristic, Petrovic from Šapac, etc., cheered and clothed with Serbian justice. Prosecutors and judges know that today, and they can compare their position when they were in power today's DS political mutants and what their position is today. Where better example of political manipulation to the judicial authorities, the prosecution, or attempts at political manipulation, may be better said than to invent the alleged robbery of the activist's apartment of that party Dragan Gilas in Jagodina and Marinika immediately on his social networks - Zago, wife, where you are, come in, wake up, react, because, yes, Dragan Markovic Palma is putting pressure on witnesses. Classic political manipulation to state authorities. Such political manipulations bring no good to the judiciary, nor to the citizens, nor to the state. That's the difference between them and us. They see the state authorities as a tool for political manipulation, while we state authorities respect and the state is fundamentally and persistently building and strengthening. Unique Serbia will inform all European institutions, because they must know who these people are and how sincere they are in their European commitment and how much they care about the government to protect their business and capital. That is why we from Unity Serbia today will support the election of Zagorka Dolovac. Namely, in 2010, Zagorka Dolovac, when these Gilas and others were in power, was their best. It's their worst day. Zagorka Dolovac to us from Unity Serbia and then and now she was good because we do not interfere in her work. No one from the JS has ever called, unlike those who would and how to interfere in the work of the Attorney General, to avoid the letter of the law, as was the case with the already famous official note. The prosecution is interested in those who are afraid of the prosecution, and we who do not have the practice of illegal activity do not need to deal with the prosecution and the judiciary. Once again, I stress, the Unique Serbia will support the amendments and additions to the Law on Judges and the High Council of the judiciary, as well as the decision to elect Zagorka Dolovac as the Republic Public Prosecutor, as well as the election of the president of the courts in Kragujevac, Panchev and Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8453	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Dubravka Kralj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8454	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Justice, distinguished representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, independence, impartiality, expertise, responsibility, commitment and dignity are the basic commandments for each judge, in any case, without exception. The judge must be the voice of the law, not the voice of some influential individuals. It must be the voice of knowledge and the voice of the profession, a voice which, with integrity, will objectively look at the facts and make a decision that will protect our country's legal system, making it a legal state, a state where none of those who violate laws, who violate other people's rights and freedoms, feel comfortable, but knows that they will eventually come before such a judge, independence, impartial, professional, responsible, dignified and dedicated. These are the principles prescribed by the Ethics Code of Judges, and because of them this session is at which we decide to amend the Law on Judges and the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary is significant. In fact, the amendments apostrophe the importance of the principle of judicial action and strengthen the guarantees of their respect. The work of the High Council of the judiciary is being introduced by the Ethics Committee, with the task of continuously following the respect of the Ethics Code of Judges. So far it has been decided by the High Council of the Judiciary, which will now be decided by the Ethics Committee, as a permanent and specialised body within the Council. I find this change significant for two reasons. First, because the introduction of the Ethics Committee can contribute to strengthening the personal component of independence, pointing to the importance and obligation of respect for ethical principles, that is, and in this way. The second benefit of these changes is certainly the fulfilment of the obligations that the Republic of Serbia has in the process of Eurointegration, and in this context Serbia has taken over a number of activities, and the process of changing the Constitution in the area of justice has been launched and strives to fully comply with EU standards and standards. I must point out that, in addition to legal guarantees and guarantees, it is necessary to bring the European level and standards in line with both judges and public prosecutors' salaries. I think that, given the hard work they're doing, they deserve it, and that would certainly be part of handling European norms. As far as the Ethics Code is concerned, it was brought by the High Judicial Council back in 2010, and now it is on the agenda to introduce the Ethics Committee, which will be a stronger guarantee of respect for the code and I believe this is a significant newspaper. The second amendment to the Law on Judges is also motivated by reasons of compliance with European standards, and consists in relaxing the reasons for the resolution from the judge's post. In fact, the point is that the judge should not be resolved just because he received an "unsatisfactory" assessment of his work. And this change can be considered useful if viewed from the aspect of strengthening the continuity of the judge's function and, of course, from the aspect of preventing abuse of the possibility of resolution. But it must not mean that judges should not further improve and that they should not pursue the highest level of expertise and urgency in their work. On the contrary, I believe that at the beginning of his day, each judge should first bring one judgment on himself and his work, whether he is better than the day before, and all judges must perfect themselves. The third amendment of the Law on Judges implies the correction of a member who regulates the right to a natural judge, i.e. the way in which cases will be deployed to specific judges, in that respect, as well as the complexity of the case. I think that this change may represent a benefit for judges, so that all judges of one court are evenly burdened, that one judge may not receive five cases that may end within a relatively short period, while the other one would receive five complex cases in which it is necessary to listen to a class of witnesses, artists who need to hold several hearings, etc., so that I consider this amendment useful. Certainly, the most important of all the newspapers this session brings is the introduction of the Ethics Committee, and thus strengthening supervision of the application of the ethical principles of judicial action. However, with the Ethics Committee and perhaps before the Ethics Committee, the application of the Ethics Code should be taken into account by the Presidents of the Courts who and under the Law on the Regulation of Courts are obliged to take care of the independence of judges and to preserve the reputation of the Court. The presidents of the courts, as chiefs of the judicial administration, are the first to be independent of any other administration and should represent a firm defense of any kind of unauthorised influence on the court, and not by any chance be part of the channel that these influences are being carried out. We today elect the presidents of basic, economic and criminal courts in several cities, who deserve to have formally elected court presidents with a clearly defined mandate, not just acting presidents, which I do not think is a good practice, but rather leads to uncertainty. However, the presidents of the courts can make a significant contribution to the right to a fair trial. First of all, I am referring to the right to a court that is impartial and to the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. In this regard, the Presidents of the Courts decide on requests for exemption, and in this respect they are obliged to provide a trial in which objective consideration of facts will be possible and whose outcome will be a decision based solely on the law, rather than motivated by some personal reasons or beliefs. Namely, the dispute must be won by the one whose side is the law, and not by whose side is the judge. Also, the Presidents of the Courts as managers of the judicial administration should organise work in a way that will be effective, monitor the length of court proceedings, encourage their colleagues to act on an up-to-date basis and, of course, to use the powers given to them by law in respect of maintaining procedural discipline. All proposed candidates have received a positive opinion from their colleagues and courts in which they work, and in my opinion that is sufficient recommendation for their choice, because I believe that their colleagues know best who among them have the highest procludence to perform the duties of the President of the Court, i.e. handling, who has the highest capacity to organise work in the court. That's why I'm putting myself in charge of electing the president of the courts to move on to the judge himself, and I hope that this will be the result of constitutional changes. Of course, I want all the candidates proposed to be elected. At the beginning of my presentation, I pointed out that we must not allow anyone who violates the laws of the Republic of Serbia, and especially those who violate the Criminal Code to feel comfortable, but rather that they should know that they will respond to the court as soon as possible. There is, of course, the key and role of the police and the prosecution, as they go from committing a crime to being held accountable before the court. As important as it is not to be protected, it is equally important not to be unprotected, but that everyone in his country can feel safe and secure. There may also be a key role for an independent, impartial, professional and efficient prosecutor's office. The prosecution is a state body organised in a monocrat arrangement, on the principle of hierarchy between the prosecution of a different rank and, of course, in that organization is the most important role of the Republic Public Prosecutor, and today it is on the agenda that it is the right choice for the post. Preparing, of course, that I have read the Programme of Organization and the promotion of the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the period from 2022 to 2028. The SPS MPs agree that priorities must be even more determined to fight crime and corruption, to improve the efficiency of criminal prosecution, as well as to further improve international co-operation in criminal matters, as organised crime, which has a rare international character, must be fought organised with other countries, because it will only have success. What is our recommendation for the work of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office in the coming period is to improve transparency of the public prosecutor's office, which is important not only because of citizens, not only because of the prosecution itself, since it has been unfairly exposed to criticism, which may not have been necessary at all, but also because of the process of joining the European Union, since both the European Union and the Council of Europe pay much attention to the communication of the prosecution with the media. I will quote part of the opinion of the Advisory Council of European Prosecutors, which speaks precisely about the importance of communication with the media. It is said: “Transparency in performing prosecutorial functions is a key component of the rule of law and an important guarantee of fair trial. Justice must be done and justice must be shown. In order to ensure this, it must be possible for the media to report criminal proceedings. The application of the principle of transparency in the work of public prosecutors is a way of ensuring public trust, as well as the dissemination of information on their functions and powers. Therefore, the picture of the public prosecutor's office is an important element of public confidence in the proper functioning of the judicial system." I believe that we will all agree on these claims, because it is important that citizens have confidence in the judiciary and it is important to be informed of its work. This obligation, of course, also stands for the presidents of the courts, who, according to the Rules of Procedure, are obliged to communicate with the media, i.e. to inform the public. The Socialist Party of Serbia is struggling to build a social fair society, which it will not be if, as long as they learn, they copy, if while they are doing one another, they steal it, if while they wait for justice, others buy it. So, honorary prosecutors and judges, let's get to work. You love SPS support for your loyal love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8455	Thank you. Since we no longer have a registered president, or representative of the parliamentary groups, before we move on to the list of speakers, I will read a notice relating to today's work. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8456	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, respected representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, I want to begin by congratulating all Muslims in the Republic of Serbia to congratulate Kurban-Bajram, the largest holiday of Muslims, and to thank the leadership of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for having understanding and for not having a session yesterday. This is evidence of a democratic society, a society that fully understands the differences that exist in our country and sees them as an advantage and wealth of our country. Today we are talking about the Law on Judges, the addition of the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, the election of a republican public prosecutor and we are making a decision on the election of the President of the Court. These are essential decisions. We as the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the strongest Bosniak party, will support the proposed laws. What I want to point out is that we fully support the fight against crime and corruption, but there is no major crime, there is no major corruption until they have co-workers and support within the system. Our key fight is that the system, the people within the system, which gives logistics to criminals, is cleared. When we choose a judge of one, we do not choose him as judge of the heavenly court and that he is without sin, we choose him as judge of the earthly court, he is certainly sinful, but certainly his work, every judge, as well as every MP, every official in the Republic of Serbia is subject to criticism, primarily citizens, media, professional public, international public. So it is very important that we all listen carefully and what is being discussed here, but also what citizens and the media and the professional public have to tell us because there are no untouchables. You know how, don't make any comments, but we can do whatever we want in a particular dam. I absolutely disagree with that. What I am particularly interested in, as a representative of the strongest Bosniak party in the Republic of Serbia, is what concerns my people directly. We voted in favour of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we believe that we will essentially implement the fight against crime and corruption and judicial reform and support your work, but what we are asking both the Minister and her team and the competent one is to pay attention to the percentage representation of Bosniaks when it comes to the judiciary, the prosecution, especially in the areas where Bosniaks live. It's an inherited problem, but the problem we have to solve in the next period. What is very important is respect for the official use of Bosnian. So, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia members; 14, 18, 21, 46, 75, 76, 78, 79, guarantee it to minority communities, and thus to my Bosniak people for the official use of Bosnian language. I have to point out that some judges don't abide by it, and what I expect from the Ministry, by a representative of the High Council of the Judiciary, to investigate it. Gordana Krstic, the Supreme Court in Kralje, Almir Masovic, and Mr Misovic, the Basic Court in Sjenica, do not respect these provisions of the Constitution where Bosniaks are allowed to conduct procedures in their native, Bosnian language. I also want to point out that we had a complaint from the head of a school in Sjenica, that he was kidnapped, that he had been kidnapped, that he had announced it at a press conference, and that the acting prosecutor in Sjenica had done nothing about it. I expect a reaction from the Ministry to examine these allegations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8457	I thank my colleague. Vladan Glisic. He's not in the O.R. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8458	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed minister with co-workers, representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, respected citizens of Serbia, are present today two draft laws that the government of the Republic of Serbia, as an authorised proposing on the one hand, and the Ministry of Justice as a resolute ministry on the other hand, want to provide legal conditions for better performance of affairs, which relate to the system of evaluation of the work of judges, during their professional careers. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, as well as the proposed law supplementing the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, shall take steps in order to meet the recommendations arising from the acts of GREC, as well as to take all other necessary activities resulting from the revised plan, i.e. Chapter 23, which essentially refers to the area of justice and fundamental rights. We are talking about Chapter 23 and all the things that need to be improved through talks with the European institutions, when we talk about Chapter 23, essentially refer to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and we, both in Parliament and in the course of public hearings organised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in collaboration with the Ministry of Justice, discuss all these things, and I hope that in the future, through constitutional amendments, we will precisely define those things that we want to improve the judiciary, which is to strengthen the capacity of independence and strengthen the position of holders of judicial functions. The recommendations initiated by these amendments and complemented are essentially aimed at revising the evaluation of judges, i.e. evaluations of their work during their professional careers, and they are essentially directed through the introduction of qualitative criteria and that the unsatisfactory criteria are not the basis for the resolution of judges, which I believe are such changes and complements, when we talk about the Law on Judges, very good, because we clearly show that we have worked since 2012, that we will work in the future to strengthen the capacity of the holders of judicial functions, and which clearly and unequivocally shows that the third branch of the government, i.e. the judiciary, is fully independent and that its only objective is to protect the Constitution and the law of the guaranteed rights and full protection of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the bill creates conditions for the establishment of an ethical committee as a permanent working body at the High Council of the judiciary. This newly formed ethics committee, in accordance with its legal powers, will decide on everything that can be assessed as negative from the judge's point of view, that is, the independence of judges and their reputation, as well as anything that can be assessed negatively when we talk about harmful influence on courts as institutions that achieve full integrity in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The Ethics Committee, of course, has its legal obligation to submit this report once a year to the High Judicial Council and that the High Council of the judiciary, in accordance with its legal powers, will be able to take the law of the established proceedings after having made an insight into that report of the Ethics Committee. On this occasion, I would also like to commend the urgency of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as an authorised promoter, and you and your Ministry, for accepting these recommendations made by GRECA in the best faith, which in this way shows that we also care about the full independence of the judiciary and that it is important for us as a legislative and executive authority, in no way will we want to affect their independence as it was in 2009 and 2010. When we talk about the amendments and additions to the Judges' Law, I would like to refer to Article 24. The Law on Judges, in paragraph 2, in which it is said that – the judges in question are entrusted cases on the basis of the court's schedule of cases, taking into account the complexity of the case, and solely on the basis of the mark and the number of cases. Why is this important? When we talk about sentence, taking into account the complexity of the case, I believe that this sentiment can in many ways contribute to the judges in the courts of regular and court of special jurisdiction, although several courts of regular jurisdiction can be evenly burdened, which will certainly contribute to a higher degree of efficiency and a higher degree of productivity, the judges themselves and in their work, so that the rulings are passed in the law of defined deadlines and that those judgments are made solely on the basis of facts and evidence. When we talk about the courts themselves and take as an example the territory of the city of Belgrade, as the capital, on the territory of the capital, we have three basic courts, one senior court, three appeals, or one appeal court, one commercial court, one commercial court, and not taking into account courts of special jurisdiction, we can see at certain times that the judges in question are at a certain level of burden. This burden is the result of accelerated business social processes, and this is the result of more unfortunately the execution of certain crimes, i.e. against legal acts in a city where you have over two million inhabitants. I believe that with this kind of change and addition, we will contribute to individual judges, especially in basic courts, and especially in courts where litigation is handled in litigation cases to make the judges more evenly burdened. We can also take an example of the third basic court in Belgrade, which at the moment is extremely burdened, given citizens' claims against banks, and I really think this will contribute to some kind of relaxation. Also, if the citizens of Serbia and for the citizens of Belgrade would have made it easier to understand it in one way, you, when you press charges as prosecutor, at the court's office, or when you file a lawsuit with a real and local court, you seduce her in the office and then the lawsuit gets its number through the libra system of the court, it is distributed to a particular judge, randomly based on the number. You, when you look at the report of certain objects, you will see that there is a slight inequality. Why do I say inequality? Because you have certain litigator judges, who will, for example, through the libra system, you get a number of cases in which, on the part of the prosecutor, there are a number of persons on the side of the defendant, and who has to schedule a number of hearings, in order to listen to a number of parties, etc. And then, on the other hand, you have a number of judges who decide to sue for a credible remedy or decide on a damages claim, e.g. which has come out of a felony, and where you already have a conviction from a criminal trial, which is a legal basis, and it is much easier, I hope, you will agree with me, that as a judge in a litigation procedure, you will make a verdict based on a credible id, or that you will realize that you have a criminal verdict, as a legal basis, and that you can only determine how high the damages are. I believe that these changes and additions will fully contribute to the relaxation in terms of even burden, which will contribute to the need not every month for judges to pursue to meet a certain quota, but for that verdict to be based solely on evidence and facts. When we talk about assessing judges during their professional careers, I support the system of evaluation and evaluation of judges' work during their professional careers, because we can see in just one transparent way how a certain judge is doing his job, but we are not going to influence their independence and independence, which are principles stemming from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This assessment problem is part of the problem stemming from the 2009 domestic judicial reform. In the course of the 2009 and 2010 reforms, when this reform was implemented and we know how it was implemented, and we know that over a thousand judges remained on the street in one day, you are the desire of the people who were then sitting in the Ministry of Justice and the High Council of the judiciary, especially the people who sat in the first session of the High Council of the Judiciary, to introduce so-called. the trial period for the new holders of the judicial functions, i.e. judges who are first elected to that judicial office. We wear that time and day today. At one of the previous sessions, I said that members of the High Council of the judiciary also have a great burden on themselves and 10 years later, because they have to justify the confidence of the entire public in order not to have all the things that happened in 2009, when thousands of judges remained on the street. What do you have today? You have the first time judges are obliged to be evaluated three years in a row. And when you evaluate these judges three times in a row after that, you make a decision, whether the judge will continue to act in a particular matter or will no longer act as a judge. In this trial period, you can make them directly independent and independent of the judges, because in 2012 and 2013, judges were faced with being underestimated by people who directly and indirectly participated in judicial reform and now imagine that someone is assessing you who is close now to the Democratic Party's summit at the time, and you can't, in the free judgment belief that you are acting in a particular case, because you can expect someone to give you a worse grade because you acted against the interest of the then Democratic Party. At that point, he created extraordinary psychic pressure for young judges. I believe that these provisions should also be amended, i.e. to propose that we amend when we speak about the Constitution itself because we will also directly contribute to strengthening the capacity of the judge-holders and that they are solely making their rulings in accordance with the free judicial conviction. When we talk about judicial reform, and about this reform of the judiciary we have spoken many times in this House, I would really like to remind the citizens of Serbia that this reform has cost us 44m euros. It cost all of us here, the MPs, cost all of the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia, and instead of being used, to improve the judicial infrastructure, as we have today in Katanic's court, as we have reconstructed the Court of Justice, a court building in Kragujevac, etc., we had to use that money to pay compensation for damages based on material or immaterial damages to judges. But what is a fundamental difference compared to that period is what it is for the first time, and here I would like, Minister, to commend you from 2014, to come up with a staff plan that will allow for the working-legislative engagement of persons on indefinite working hours who have been engaged in courts by contract, or who have been engaged for a certain period of time. It's a really big and positive change that was expected by all the employees in the judiciary. When I talk about it, I also think about the auxiliary technical staff, and I think about both the writers and the people who work in the offices, and these are really great people who work every day to help the courts by treating the judge be more expedient in order to ultimately make judicial decisions in the law-defined deadlines. When we talk about pressures, these pressures existed in 2009 and 2010, when judicial reform was carried out, these pressures came most from the then Democratic Party and then the Ministry of Justice to select only judges who were close to the Democratic Party, or whose relatives were then, friends sat in the Democratic Party who decided to unify the judiciary on their own behalf. This need has not been demonstrated by the fact that this judicial system is fully advanced, but that you have a certain majority of the Supreme Council of the judiciary at the time and that you set up judges to create an opportunity for yourself to absorb certain acts for which the Democratic Party officials will then, and in the next period, be accountable to the courts of regular and special jurisdiction. When we speak in the area of justice, we are not only facing pressures today when we talk about media that are mostly part of a tycoon opposition work, and we are not talking about the pressures that come from opposition parties, but also about a certain kind of pressure that we as MPs and you as the Ministry suffer from and certain people sitting in the same courts. You know, I, when I graduated from law school and I passed a judicial exam, one of the basic things is to learn that the judge is independent, independent, but that the judge can perform in the media exclusively with the permission of the President of the Court, the other competent authority and that he has to respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of the court. You today have certain holders of judicial functions who sit in the highest instance, who do not respect the Rules of Procedure, who do not respect the Law on Judges, who go out constantly and daily in the media and comment on us here Members of the People. When someone gets out of law school, he gets a degree in law school, but it doesn't give him the right to comment and influence court decisions. When did you see any representative of the Serbian Progressive Party leave in front of the High Court on Katanic Street and directly influence prosecutors and act on a specific application? That's what Dragan Djilas does, Marinika Tepic and all the officials of the Freedom and Justice Party are doing, going to Katanic Street and directly asking the prosecutor's office to follow their application. Guys, let the prosecutors do their job. It is not the time of 2009 and 2010, so that you can take lists, sit in the Ministry of Justice, you, Snezana Malović and the rest of the team, Dusan Petrovic, and cross-reference judges who suit you, is no longer the same time. You are no longer in position, nor will you be to reform the Serbian judiciary. Don't do that. You know what's worse? It is worse for these certain people who are close to them, who no longer hide it sitting in Nemanja's street in court and commenting on the decisions and commenting that the president does not respect the Constitution, etc. How did the court expert not remember to comment on what it was like to vote in the Bodrum parliament? What is it like when Dragan Gilas acquires 619m euros? What is it like when Dragan Gilas sits with the judge of the basic court in Valjevo? What is it like when 44m euros should be paid off because you drove judges and prosecutors off to the street because they weren't at your will? How come this expert doesn't comment today? He comments on all the things that are close to them, and comments on all the things that he can resent Serbian Progressive Foreigner Alexander Vukic. The judiciary must be and must remain a third and independent branch of power, but we must not allow certain people from the courts to comment on the decisions. I'd like to tell this gentleman, and he'll clearly identify himself - resign, or be relieved. Start your movement, start your political party, go to elections if you have the support of citizens, take a political position, and then you can make any comments, and then when my fellow Members of Parliament make certain arguments against them, then they address all domestic European institutions as they press the judiciary. You've never seen here in parliament that we've put any kind of pressure on the judiciary. So, finally, I want to say that both in previous sessions and in today's session, we are considering Decisions and Bills which, I hope, will contribute that we have an even better and more efficient judiciary in the future, and today we certainly have it in relation to the period before 2012. I believe that these decisions will help to make our Serbia in the future even safer and safer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8459	I thank Mr. Kesar. The next is National Assembly Vice-President Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8460	Thank you. Dear Vice President, a respected minister with co-workers, is particularly important for Unity Serbia and we sincerely support strengthening the independence of the judiciary, strengthening the prosecutor's independence as the basic principle of rule of law, and in line with the modern and democratic Serbia we are fighting for. What is important not only for Serbia, but also for every country that claims to be democratic, it is important that it has a good and efficient judicial system, from which they originate or should at least produce good indicators for other pillars of the rule of law. We are also seeking to do so in the Assembly over the past period, we have passed several laws that strengthen equality and reduce discrimination, all in order for Serbia to be a society of equal opportunities for all. Unique Serbia believes that the principles of judicial independence and impartiality are the basis for a democratic society based on the rule of law and that it is the judicial independence of the institutional means of protecting human rights and freedoms and that there must not be any abuse on any basis, because the only interest of this state should and must be equality and equality for all citizens and I must rely on this equality and equality for all citizens and mention the situation that, several months ago, the Serbian public, the citizens of Serbia were appalled with the fact that a woman reported domestic violence, reported harassment, reported threats, that the police had come and that the prosecution had not done its job, that the police had not done its job, that the police had not done their job. For what? Because the bully was then politically active, and perhaps now he is, Dragan Gilas. That's not a good message. It was not a good message for any woman who suffered domestic violence or who suffered domestic violence, because what message are we sending her? Your husband can beat you free. If he's got money, if he's politically influential, he can beat you freely, harass you, because, of course, the prosecution and the police won't do anything. I know that you, primarily, as a woman, and also as a minister of justice and that the minister of police and that the Ministry of Interior will never let this case stay somewhere and we simply drag it through the media and get it out of the media. It can't be like that. If we're fighting for equality here in the Assembly, if we're all talking about being women equal to men, then let's do the same, to condemn these men who harass women, but even if there are women who harass men, I haven't heard of that case so far, and so do they. To be equal everywhere. That's the kind of society we need to fight for. I believe that as a society, we are responsible enough and mature enough to build and raise and raise children in such a society. I'll be back on the subject. I'm sorry if I came out, but I just think this is all about today. Today, at the proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary, we also choose several presidents of the courts. I have no doubt they're good candidates. As we know, the High Council of the Judiciary proposes the choice of judges and for the Unique Serbia is a good judge who, when he takes the oath, judges by justice and law, is not subject to will, but is responsible and honorably doing his job. When I mentioned the High Council of the Judiciary, there is Mr Pavlovic, who is a representative of the Visa Council of the Judiciary, we elected the President of the Supreme Cassation Court in the Assembly several months ago, and by this choice we also received the President of the Visa Council of the judiciary, which is important precisely because of the election of judges, because we received a new composition from the order of judges on 5 April this year. With the election of the President of the Cassation Court, we also received the President of the High Council of the Judiciary, which continued to be an uninterrupted choice of judges. One of the important choices that we are discussing today is the choice of the Republic Public Prosecutor, and the candidate, we could hear it, Mrs Zagorka Dolovac and her expert and competence assessment committee, gave the assessment that you were particularly prominent, and you, in your presentation, pointed out, and we can say that Mrs Dolovac, has performed the maximum professional, competent and responsible role of the Republic Public Prosecutor, and all in order to exercise the rule of law. The Republic's public prosecutor is an important judicial institution and in this place must be a person who sets clear goals with his authority and in the judiciary and in general, that the fight against every type of crime and corruption is a priority and that there must be zero tolerance. The principle of a monocrat arrangement characterises that all prosecutions are subordinated to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, and all prosecutors to the Republic Public Prosecutor and is therefore a place of the Republic Public Prosecutor's office of crucial importance for the functioning of the prosecution as the most sensitive and most important part of the state's apparatus. Perhaps the most important part of my presentation is the fact that the seat of the Republic Public Prosecutor is essential to society, since the Republic Prosecutor can stop or advance very important processes, all indicating that it is necessary for the prosecution mechanism to be isolated from any kind of political influence. It is indisputable that unlike previous times, today it is. The judicial authority is independent and independent, restricted by the Constitution and by the law of this country. As you know, we are in the process of changing the Constitution right in the area of the judiciary, where constitutional amendments will be guaranteed and strengthened the independence of all bodies. We also received the commendation of the Venice Commission, that the amendments to the Constitution had been approached publicly and that all relevant social factors were involved. Just at an online meeting, which was attended by Parliament Speaker Ivica Dacic and you, Minister, as well as members of the Working Party for the Writing of Constitutional Amendments, you received commendation and that is good. I would only mention it, and you, too, in your presentation, Madam Minister, stated that the proposed candidate, Mrs Dolovac, participated in the achievement of co-operation with Eurocast, and we adopted this agreement in the Assembly last year, and thus further strengthened our capacities in the fight against organised crime. I would like to say that many courts have been opened in the previous two terms of the proposed candidate. I would like to commend the opening of the Court of Justice for organised crime in the King, and that is another proof that Serbia is ready to catch up with organised crime, which is a global problem. Of course, the Unique Serbia, as so far, will support proposals that strengthen the judiciary in our country as a guarantee of freedom and equal rights for all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8461	Thank you. The next is MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8462	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, honourable minister, respected representatives of the Ministry's High Council of Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I will take the opportunity on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group to congratulate all representatives of the Islamic community on the Kurban-Bajram holiday, with sincere wishes for many health, happiness and success. This holy holiday contributes precisely to bringing people together and strengthening lasting values, love, goodness, mercy and concern for one another, and we really want this holiday to be spent with their loved ones, in harmony, understanding and love. When it comes to today's agenda, we should not talk about the importance and meaning of the law, especially the laws that come from your ministry, from your portfolio, keeping in mind, above all, the chapters, bearing in mind what is expected of us on the European path, and we show this determination and determination when it comes to the path of European integration and we show it by practical action. So, very specifically, through amendments and additions to the law, through the adoption of new legislative proposals, through the launch of an amendment to the Constitution. So the Socialist Party Group of Serbia believes that the judicial system and the rule of law are the fundamental and fundamental assumptions of every democratic and legal society, a state like Serbia today, indeed. The rule of law is a key prerequisite for both peace and security and prosperity. It also strengthens the country's economic capacity and economic capacity. The rule of law is one of the basic values on which the European Union rests, which I said at the very beginning and today the 27 European countries community. The strategic interest of commitment, one of Serbia's main foreign policy objectives, is full membership in the European Union, which is evidenced by a policy led by the government of the Republic of Serbia, of course, with the support of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The negotiating chapter 23, which I just mentioned, is one of the key ones and not only involves constitutional reform regarding the judiciary, but also concerns the fight against corruption, organised crime and terrorism, the processing of war crimes, media freedom, human and minority rights. This is all about Chapter 23, which is of great importance and importance on Serbia's European path. Serbia today is seriously working on the rule of law, and that, as I said at the very beginning, is practical, not just in words, so, works, not words. And the results best speak in favour of this finding, the results that we have all achieved together in the previous period of time. We have achieved the observed results in a number of areas, brought new laws, adopted amendments and amendments to some of the existing legislative proposals. I would point out, for example, the Law on Gender Equality, the ban on discrimination, the prevention of corruption. It is extremely important that the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue is formed in this term of government. All of this should contribute to making citizens feel safer, that citizens feel more protected, that they are all equal under the law, because the essence of the rule of law is the same standards and equal criteria for everything. The change in the Constitution is necessary to improve the rule of law. The constitution is the highest legal and political act of every state, as soon as possible. The constitution defines state order, political system, socio-economic relations, while also prescribing rights, responsibilities and freedoms of citizens. Serbia is today a regulated rule of law in which the principle of division of power is consistently respected, which is legislative, executive and judicial. Serbia today has a legal state in which the institutions of the system function. It may bother some opposition political parties the colleague spoke of a few times, the chairman now, but that's not our problem. It is up to us to respect the Constitution, it is up to us to obey the laws and to promote these laws from day to day, which we do. The independence of the judiciary is the backbone of the rule of law. The work of the judicial authorities was mirrored by the state and guaranteed by the existence of a regulated legal order. The judiciary and the general judicial branch of the authorities should and must be independent in their work, excluded from all external and political influences, and the holders of judicial functions must be professional, responsible, moral and must be worthy, above all, of the work they will do in the next period of time. In addition to the fact that the judiciary must be independent and impartial, it is also necessary to be effective. We have spoken of this many times here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today, criticism can often be heard from those who carried out a famous reform of the judicial system in 2009, when more than three thousand judges and prosecutors were out of work in just two days, with absolutely no explanation. The reform of the judiciary cost Serbian citizens 44m euros. They are the ones who have violated the reputation of our judiciary on an international scale, and today they give themselves the right to speak negatively about the rule of law. I would remind myself that precisely thanks to the great effort, the pawnage and, above all, the initiatives of the President of the National Assembly of Ivica Dacic, the chairman of the Committees of Resolution, which are specifically related to the work of the Ministry of Justice and, of course, the Minister of Justice, were initiated by the process of constitutional changes that I was talking about at the very beginning. We are tasked with amending those provisions of the Constitution concerning the judiciary, i.e. the way in which judicial functions are elected. In this way it will contribute to greater independence and independence in the work of our judiciary, which is the ultimate goal, which is the goal of constitutional change. Once again, primarily for the sake of the public, in order not to pass the floscule of individual opposition calls to the leader, we constitutional changes do not make us change the preamble of the Constitution, but to strengthen the independence and efficiency of the judicial system in Serbia. This is the only goal we want to achieve and that is something that is necessary to continue the successful path of European integration. That is exactly what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does, along with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia has consistently achieved good and observed results in the area of rule of law, as has been suggested by more and more foreign direct investment in our country, because who would invest in the state of Serbia and would we, in the past year, have three billion foreign direct investments, while no foreign investor has given up investment in Serbia, if there is no legal certainty? I'm sure he wouldn't. In the business world, it is essential that the business environment be stable, to be safe, as well as the existence of a good legislative framework. If all this was gone, there would be no foreign investors and their investments, which are growing. For the first four months of this year alone, we are recording as much as a billion euros of foreign direct investment, which was an unimaginable figure at the beginning of this year, bearing in mind the pandemic period which, unfortunately, began in March of last year, which was indeed a huge result, bearing in mind the crisis in the whole world. In its annual report for 2020, in the rule of law work, the European Commission has made its recommendation to form an ethical committee. Today there are two of us, I don't like to say extremely important, but very important law. Each legislative proposal has its own importance and importance, regardless of which area it came from, but we are talking today about really important legal proposals in the field of justice – the Law on Judges and the VSS, whose amendments and additions are designed to make this ethical committee a permanent working body that will determine whether they respect the provisions of the Ethical Code of Judges and which acts and actions are contrary to the dignity and independence of the judge and harmful to the reputation of the court. Also, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges provides that the submission of the case to a judge is based on the complexity of cases involving objective criteria, such as the number of parties and other participants in the process and respect for deadlines for the conduct of judicial actions, which we consider to be a parliamentary group of SPS extremely important and significant. When we talk about the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, it is one of the responsibilities of the National Assembly, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Public Prosecutor's Office is an independent state body that prosecutes perpetrators of criminal and other crimes and takes measures to protect constitutionality and legality. Today we have a proposal from the government to elect Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac as the Republic Public Prosecutor. Its biography states that, as the Republic Public Prosecutor, it has made a maximum effort to ensure the efficient and effective handling of the Public Prosecutor's Office, to strengthen the capacity of that authority, to improve the conduct and co-operation of other bodies and civil society organisations and international partners in the fight against crime and to combat criminal offences. What I would particularly like to point out is that in late December 2020, Zagorka Dolovac delivered a general instructions for all prosecutors, which requires urgent treatment in cases where victims are journalists. We think it's of great importance and importance. Journalists in Serbia are often at risk when doing their job, despite legal guarantees of their safety. Unfortunately, they are exposed to numerous pressures, verbal, non-verbal violence, especially threats and attacks. Anyway, we had a chance to see that, when a journalist asks at a press conference to one of the opposition political parties, or call political leaders, instead of responding, he gets a threat. This must not happen in Serbia and it must not become a norm of social behaviour in Serbia. Every type of violence is inadmissible and unacceptable. Under the law, everyone must be equal, the same rules must apply to everything and must not be protected, and therefore we are here to place citizens' interests first and foremost in strengthening the institution and rule of law, so that everyone feels safe, protected and secure, but also to be responsible for law and law. I am convinced that in its third term, Mrs Dolovac will make an even bigger and more important and personal contribution to the promotion of the public prosecutor's office and the position of a public prosecutor's organisation in the entire system of government of the Republic of Serbia. A few more sentences when it comes to litigators of justice and when it comes to what I was already talking about, and that's the ethical code and exactly what is expected, I would say, when it comes to the basic principles that the ethical code itself prescribes. So to remind you, these are the independence of judges in performing judicial functions without any, as I said, external influences, without any pressure or restrictions. The judge is independent of other branches of government, other institutions of society, but also of the media. Therefore, the judge must possess high moral values, high standards of conduct, as the holder of a judicial function that safeguards the rule of law to defend the independence of the judiciary, but also to defend citizens' rights. Then, impartiality. The impartiality is the obligation of judges to conduct proceedings and implies its own assessment of the facts, as well as the obligation to judge within a reasonable period of time and the obligation to have a fair trial and without any discrimination of parties in the proceedings of any nature or on any basis. Then, expertise and responsibility. That's certainly understood. Judges are the ethical principles of the holders of judicial functions. The dignity of the judge in performing his judicial office implies constant care for personal actions, conduct, not only when it comes to the trial, but also outside the court, or not only when it comes to the court, but also outside the court, because that is how the reputation of the court is safeguarded, thus safeguarding the reputation of the judicial office. Of course, there is a commitment to the judge, and that is one of the ethical principles that should guarantee quality, which should guarantee the legality of each decision made. He must pay full attention and all his knowledge to commit himself to every judicial dispute, starting with every judicial decision causing the consequences of the participants in the process, some of the lives of the court decision being changed in a moment, and irrevocably, and that should always be borne in mind. Of course, I will repeat once again what my colleague Dubravka, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, said in an opening statement, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all proposals. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8463	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8464	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable representatives of the VSS, honourable MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, I have been selected on the list of Alexander Vucic – For our children and I represent in the USS Assembly, whose president I am. First of all, I will take the opportunity to congratulate all citizens of Serbia's Islamic faith on Kurban-Bajram with the desire to be health, happiness and respect and respect ourselves in our country of Serbia. One of the important things is the judiciary, one of the important things is the people who are going to lead that instance, one of the important things is that these people are doing exactly the right thing, working in the interest of our people and by law, and I will normally support, as president of the USS, the proposals of the candidate, State Prosecutor Ms. Zagorka Dolovac. I think she was doing her job, and I'm gonna support the other candidates, too. I'd like now that we're here to say a few things specifically about the judiciary, for the sake of small environments where there are no courts, except courts where there are no judicial units, and they have no days to judge. It would be good if within the framework, here, now comes the Justice Minister, it would be good to provide for the possibility for municipalities that do not have their own courts, basic courts, where there are no judicial units, to be provided at least by day, that these people who live there, whether it is Srlig, whether it is Bela Palanka, whether it is Gajin Han, whether it is Babushnica, some other municipality in southeastern Serbia, any part of Serbia, were provided, at least judging the days, that people from these parts do not have to go from such places, to make the costs, to go to large centres, let's say to Nis, to go to a hearing, and when they go there, to delay. They pay, and for them are great figures, they don't have organised transportation, so it would be good, a respected minister, to assist these municipalities within your jurisdiction, and at least to provide the days to ensure the same rights for all our citizens, whether they live in Svrlig, the White Palace or any other municipality, that they can have the same rights and conditions, to protect their interests. Once again, I will support the proposals of all these candidates because it is necessary and because it is necessary. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8465	Thank you. Your group's time has been spent. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8466	Let me just tell you that we have provided that, after the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Procedural Procedure, as well as after the amendment and addition of the Criminal Procedure Act, we will certainly review the existing network of courts and we will see how many courts are burdened, where the need arises we will certainly make judicial units or transfer courts. All this depends on both the number of cases and the burden of courts, as well as the results of the amendments to these laws that I have stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8467	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8468	Thank you. What you said makes me very happy because it's really necessary and that these people are given the opportunity. Otherwise, for example, the community I come from used to have a basic court department, or she had her own court, so we had a judicial unit, so we had the next days, and now we have nothing. It's not just us, it's a larger number of environments that are like Srlig, so it's necessary to at least judge the days of security. Probably there may not be enough items, but believe me, when a man comes from some village from Svrlig and White Palanka, which is 30 kilometers from the Svrlig itself, he needs a ride to Svrlig and later to Nis. It's expenses, and on the other hand the court does its job, delay the trial. They're old people, and they want to exercise their rights. That's why it's necessary, and I think you should do it, but if you're working on it, I'm sure I'll support it. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8469	The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8470	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, Mrs Popovic, with associates, distinguished representative VSS, Mr Petrovic, I will pay my attention today almost exclusively to the amendments and additions of the Law on Judges. As part of these changes is the previous thing that is the addition of the VSS Act, which provides for the existence of an Ethics Committee, and I will support it in the voting day. However, I have a serious dilemma whether I can support it because of certain provisions of the amendment and addition of the Law on Judges. I'll take it slowly from those things that, at least to me, aren't controversial. I'm glad that it's likely to change, or to supplement Article 24 in paragraph 2, where when we trust or distribute objects, so we can say that, we're going to start taking care of the complexity of the case again, so that we get crack numbers in order when computer seduction cases don't get into a situation of a particular judge to constantly get complicated and complex objects, and that some other, a little happier in that, call, computer lottery, will be, conditionalally, in a better position. Of course, it can never be completely ideal, but I think this is something that from earlier practice and the existence and organisation of the work of the courts was a good practice, and it's a good thing that it's slowly coming back, at least the old ones that have been checked out well. As for Article 30, which speaks of the Ethics Committee as the permanent working body of the High Council of the judiciary, I will be too pleased if this Ethics Committee is far more serious and responsible for doing its work here for this member than the High Council of the Judiciary has done so far. So, one of the jobs that this Ethics Committee or body should do should decide which procedures are contrary to the dignity and independence of judges and harmful to the reputation of the court, and based on the Ethics Code, and I hope that this Ethics Code will further specify some things that are incompatible with the performance of a judicial function, which has been given a unfortunately very massive form in recent years. However it sounds and seems, I think that the engagement of judges, especially with compensation in certain ways, except for those strictly prescribed here by the provisions of the law, and especially when it comes to engagement in NGOs of any form, purpose or kind is something that is the High Council of the Judiciary so far, I must say, I don't know why kindly speaking. The Ethics Committee would probably have to take into account what my younger colleague had previously talked about, and that is to reconsider the responsibility of the judges who go public without a clear, written consent from the competent president of the court in which they were elected judges and not only their own, but also the responsibility of the President of the courts who do not initiate disciplinary proceedings against the judges who fuck the Rules of Procedure and rules that are unequivocal and clear. The fact that someone has said it has been overcome, I have not heard that there is a single criminal conviction for an ordinary citizen of the Republic of Serbia who has been released of responsibility because something has been overcome. The letter of the law, the rules, must first respect the one applying the law in order to have the right to apply the law mercilessly as prescribed to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If we do not have judges doing so, it is a very serious violation of the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the correctness, dignity and honesty of the work in the case of courts. It's still a small number of judges, although well-exposed and I think it's high time that something was done on this plan or that proceedings were initiated against them, clearly sanctioned or the regulations changed and that the judge had no obligation to seek written consent and the approval of the President of his court for public action, and then we'll simply have a clean situation. So either, or, let's define ourselves for something. It's a good thing that finally someone, if I'm not mistaken, remembered for 12 years that in Article 37, in the fifth word - five substitutes - six. It's about paying groups, because we are, and in fact we still have a situation that we have six paying groups when the judges' salaries are sorted, and the law predicts only the existence of five. If I am not mistaken, this was done in 2009, and some evil languages, which I trust, that member when the sixth special category was introduced in that article, where the President of the Supreme Cassation Court was appointed, was the concession of Nati Mesarevic to accept her majesty and divinity, the role of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation or it was a reward for something else when it came to some of the cases in which Nata Mesarovic acted. It's a good thing we remembered and what's finally been answered and what's going to be changed. To avoid confusion, and it is a very technical mistake, in fact not a technical mistake, they were in such a hurry to fulfill Nati's wish that they didn't take care of it. This shouldn't have missed a first year of law school when it was done. What I do not agree with in this proposal is the question of Article 63 of the applicable law and Article 63 of the applicable law, the unprofessional is considered to be insufficiently successful in performing a judicial function if the judge receives an assessment of "unsatisfactory" according to the criteria and criteria for the evaluation of the work of the court. I can agree that sometimes in life it can happen by justifying the reasons for the assessment of "unsatisfactory" and, of course, when judging something of the judges must also take into account the living circumstances when applying the rule. It may have been a much better solution to keep this afloat, but to say that when someone twice consecutively receives an assessment of "unsatisfactory" according to the criteria and criteria for the evaluation of the work of judges or our criteria and criteria for the evaluation of the work of judges are not good, and they have been much easier to change than to change a member of the law. I disagree with the fact that someone who doesn't do their job, fortunately it's a very small number, is being protected as a wild bear by eradicating this provision. The explanation I heard on the Committee today that it will then be treated that he is not professional and will be sent to training to be more professional, I really don't understand whose mistake or ignorance we are covering with such a change – our own because we made a mistake when we elected someone to a judicial office because one of the key elements is a matter of expertise besides dignity to be trusted in his hands to judge in the name of the people. He who does not work and does not work and earns an "unsatisfactory" rating and again earns a "unsatisfactory" rating because he does not do his job should not be a judge. It is not the point of the work of the judiciary in non-recognition and concealment of its mistakes, nor of this Parliament, nor of any previous, nor of the future, but of making it clear that when it is wrong, we have made a mistake, because Gjorge Komlenski, who has been elected judge and is not professional, dissatisfactory, we resolve these functions, does not fulfill it. Sorry, citizens, we made a mistake, and that's just the way it is. Therefore, I think our problem is precisely in criteria and criteria. From 2006, 2007, 2008, especially in 2009 and 2010, we allowed the introduction of statistics to be more important than the essence, and we came to a complete absurdity, which is the following – if the norm of an orientation judge acting in litigation cases is to conclude 20 cases a month, to rule, to make a decision that means that it is roughly said on an annual level of 240 cases. Those who stick to statistics and make sure to conclude and judge 240 cases will certainly make decisions within the time limit prescribed by the law. Where's the absurd? Many judges, especially older and experienced, do not allow themselves to engage in statistics, but rather deal with life, do his job properly, and then get into an absurd situation. It comes to the situation that on an annual level, let's say, sentence 400 cases, because he tried seven, eight hearings each day, neatly, but it's simply physically inconclusive to make more than 240 decisions. Such a judge has a problem because he can experience, and in practice we already have that, that the President of the Court of Justice against him submits a disciplinary application and proceedings are initiated because he has done more than he is asked to do, and the President of the Court has not provided him with a suitable associate, no trainee, or a judicial assistant to facilitate at least the technical part that they can do without problems. Therefore, there are more problems here with criteria and criteria than there is a question of whether someone should be resolved because they have earned the grade does not satisfy. Therefore, whether it was requested by GRECO or something else was taken or insisted from the EU, I must say, and that is a well-known position, I am not interested in it at all. Few things that are their recommendations, their insistence was on the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially when it comes to the judicial system. Why am I talking about this? There's a tendency, and it's a human trait to cover up certain problems. We have today's agenda and the election of the president of the courts. We have the presidents of the courts doing their job very professionally, but we also have the presidents of the courts who don't do it. We have the presidents of the courts who, at any cost, are trying to cover up the problems that arise because the trial is not completed within a reasonable time. For seven years, the judge, by his mistake, unfortunately does not act in the same case, has not reached a solution to the motion to execute an executive court ruling. He's done a series of illegal things, I'm unlawfully thinking procedurally illegal, and he's connected to some other case. He wouldn't let the perpetrators take the case and not talk to the Tantals. Then you have a situation for the President of the Court to say - no, no harm to the right to trial within a reasonable time. It's about the Second Basic Court in Belgrade, that we have no dilemma about it. If we give in and say that those who do not do their job but only deal with statistics cannot be relieved of the judicial functions under certain conditions, and we make better criteria and criteria, but than those we now have, more importantly, we will not do anything good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, nor the judges who act, especially those who are honorable, and such is the greatest, honorable, safe and more than responsible, and work beyond the limits of the opportunities they have. I will also agree with my colleague, Miletic, about the existence of courts. I was hoping that the new Council of Justice's new council that has come, in fact I hope, is just ahead of it, the new ministry that has come, will do a serious analysis of the network of courts that we have. It is unacceptable that the state is not represented in every environment, as it used to be that in every city in Serbia there was a municipal court, there was a tax administration, etc. It's the best state in which judges are extremely well paid, doctors, cops, who have no job at all because everything else is harmonised. Therefore, it is also inadmissible that the ministry must deal with the fact that every year or every other year we bring a competent court in a position to delegate tens of thousands of cases of the High Court in Belgrade to other senior courts in the Republic of Serbia. It's not just once, it's happened many times to make a random mistake. There's some kind of system error. I seriously think that the network of courts that we once had, the municipal, the district and the Supreme Court of Serbia was far more efficient and functional with its jurisdictional schedule than this revised miracle created in 2010 by the basic courts. You can't fix what wasn't done right at the beginning. This must also be considered to allow access to every citizen so that no problem can come to court. Therefore, I am sorry, of course, to follow the discussion and everything else until the end, but as far as the law on amendments and additions to the Judges' Law is concerned, if this proposal to delete, without proper replacement, I cannot vote personally for this proposal. I think I explained the reasons very clearly. If I'm right, I don't know, but I think they were pretty clear. I thank you for your careful monitoring of this and for your advance response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8471	Replica, Maja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8472	I thank the MP for this introduction, but I would like to deny you, given that expertise is required at the moment of the election. If, in the future, one of the judges has a negative assessment in the sense that a large number of decisions have been lifted, this will be determined in the future in a disciplinary procedure as unconscious work. We can't comment on expertise during our careers. If there are changes to some laws, the judges go to additional training for these laws. We are not just talking about the recommendations of GRECO and the Advisory Council of European Judges, but we want in one unique way, that in a transparent procedure that implies ultimately two-stageness, we want to determine whether someone is professional or not. Then one commission of the VSS finds whether someone is professional or not, we think it's not constitutional after all, because there's no right to appeal. It is these things that have led to disastrous results in that famous reform of the judiciary carried out by the DS, whose consequences we still suffer today. This government will not allow these things to be repeated and that the state, or the citizens, is losing their budgets, not to mention the position of the judges on the street in one day, without any explanation, without any compensation. We all know what happened in that period, and I repeat, this government is not going to let that happen. As for the network of courts and your proposal to be a court in every city, a judicial unit, this first depends on what the number of cases say, one, on the justification that there is a judge in each court, and two depends on the possibility, of our country's economic ability to implement such a thing. The smallest problem is the number of judges, we have wonderful interns and associates, a wonderful future of justice, but first of all we need to consider the justification of such a thing. In any case, what you said about the delegation of jurisdiction, not only was the Supreme Court delegation, but they were delegations of cases from the First Court, the Third Court, the Basic Court, Belgrade, as well as the Court of Justice in Novi Sad, precisely because of these litigation cases. I have already exhibited in this Assembly about the amendments and additions of the Law on Prosecution, and I definitely believe that when these amendments and additions are adopted, that this will significantly improve the situation, just as the provisions on jurisdiction are foreseen, the transfer of jurisdiction of courts in Serbia, means that they will go with the dispersion of cases from Belgrade, the even burden of courts, and then I do not think that we will be in a position to have Belgrade courts overloaded and yet that the courts in Serbia do not have enough cases. Given the protest of lawyers, you are all familiar with these facts, the state sees an adequate and economically satisfying way to prevent further accumulation of cases in Belgrade and I believe that already in mid-September or October these changes and additions would be found here in front of this house. I have previously exhibited, the last delegation, MP Komlenski, was 96,000 cases delegated to Serbia from Belgrade. Also, the delegation itself takes a lot of money from the budget because it is not a cheap process. After all, these are really ad hoc situations that we need to avoid in the future, and I believe that by adopting amendments and additions to the Law on litigation, these problems will in one system way be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8473	Replica, George Komlensky.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8474	I thank you for your explanation. I said the answer today that we got on the Justice Committee got me a little confused about this detail. Now I think we've made it clear when it comes to running and how to conduct a disciplinary procedure. Maybe I wasn't focused enough and I didn't understand. As far as court overload is concerned, I would not want to go into this controversy, it is now a very long story and I deliberately did not go into that part, because everyone is a little bit right and nobody is 100% right when it comes to the problem that has arisen about everything that's been going on around the Law of Parley Procedure, or some of the other situations and problems that exist when it comes to these lawsuits against the banks. I don't want to take too much time, I've talked about it too long. Simply, about everyone was right about their position and no one was completely right about it, and I only hope that these changes that will come as a proposal here will be acceptable, will not endanger citizens' rights to represent and access to the court, which is completely clear, nor will they allow banks in any way to do what is due and what the views of the courts in the Republic of Serbia so far do not pay and return to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, by the way. I really hope that a quality proposal will emerge and, of course, every quality proposal needs a good overview of everything that is going on and of a lot of time and energy spent to get the best result at that moment. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8475	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slavenko Unkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8476	Thank you. The President-in-Office, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, it is clear that the quality of justice depends on the quality of the law and therefore every change and addition of existing rules contributes to the improvement of the judicial system and, of course, should have our support. It is mainly the changes and additions necessary for progress in fulfilling the activities of the revised Action Plan for Chapter 23, as well as our commitment to the Council of Europe to combat corruption. Today, we have a very important law on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor. In Serbia, it is a very strong figure that is able to stop certain processes, improve and that is why it is very important for the Republic's public prosecutor to be independent of any political influence. Without an independent and independent public prosecutor's office, there is no free democratic society, no protection of fundamental human rights and freedom and no serious fight against organised crime and corruption. In a society in which no one day, not a week, goes by without calling for the responsibility of the Public Prosecutor and the Republic Public Prosecutor for acting or for failure to act in some cases, I believe that the role of the Republic's Public Prosecutor is certainly one of the most difficult functions in our country, whoever is on it. Zagorka Dolovac is the only candidate for this post. Her résumé is truly impressive and has not been chosen for no reason but twice for this responsible position. The best indicator is that during her election in 2015, the opposition also voted in favour of her re-election, and now the same ones who supported her use the media space daily to criticise her work. By the work and behavior of Mrs. Dolovac, we see that she has not changed her way and style of work. Some people like it, some people don't, but we and our citizens are only interested in the results of this work. Being a Republic Public Prosecutor is a very responsible job that requires experience in prosecution and management, full coordination with other state authorities and huge and serious work. Citizens rightly expect the determination and strength of institutions in the fight against every form of crime, and the republican Public Prosecutor has the highest authority and greatest responsibility. When we look at the annual report on the work of a public prosecutor's organization, we see thousands and thousands of objects, and we see that there is one serious and large work behind it. However, public perception of the prosecution's work is based on a few cases that have been brought to the public and on the front pages of the tabloids, as well as on the weak and insufficient appearance in the public of the prosecution's representatives. For example, the dirty campaign against unitary Serbian leader Dragan Markovic Palma, where without any evidence or any potential victim, means clean lies, tried to accuse one man and tried to pressure the prosecution. A small part of the public, i.e. irresponsible individuals dealing with politics, give themselves the right to lie, to be judges and prosecutors and to prejudge someone for some matter, without any material or any other evidence. And on this very case, by reacting or denying the allegations of Marinika Tepic that the prosecution in the Kingdom promised her that the case against Palma would be transferred to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, the prosecution rightly demonstrated professionality and independence. This is an example of how important it is for the D.A. to be resilient to all kinds of pressures on any side. The election of the Republic's Public Prosecutor is accompanied by numerous controversy and criticism. The main observation is the non-transparency of the election process and the procedure related to this, which may be considered in some subsequent period. The objections are also that the prosecutor's election contest is being conducted by the body chaired by the same prosecutor, i.e. the prosecutor is holding a competition of his own choosing. This causes great controversy in the public, and I'm sure we can create mechanisms that can improve these processes. Unlike the Council of Europe, where the standard is that the same person can be elected only once for the chief public prosecutor, the law does not limit the number of mandates and this could be considered in the next period. I will remind you that the same person can only be elected once as President of the Supreme Cassation Court. The President of the Supreme Court may be elected no more than two mandates, and even the president of the state may be elected no more than two mandates. These are all topics for a future period, and we hope to find a way to make our justice system better. It remains for us to believe that the honorable holder of a judicial function, not one policy or anyone, can make him corrupt. The parliamentary group will support today's draft laws because of all this in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8477	Thank you. The word is Ivan Fishman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8478	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected Serbian citizens, legal sciences know the difference between legality and legitimacy. This mainly means that laws and regulations need to be just, that is, the law itself does not guarantee justice in itself. In the context of the philosophy of law, we can conclude that law itself does not guarantee morality yet, although the ideal of the right is precisely to encourage and enable people to act according to ethical principles. The laws we are discussing today in an efficient way are dominated by the difference between legality and legitimacy, i.e. allowing one sensitive area to be regulated, in a way that guarantees what is most important, and that is justice. The question arises - what is the essence of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law? Namely, the continuity of the judicial function, as a significant anti-corruption regulation, requires a certain supplement that will guarantee that judges are indeed working in the interest of the rule of law. Current legal solutions in Article 63. The law on judges, whose erasure is proposed by this law, relied on the judge's performance assessment according to efficiency, however, efficiency in itself does not guarantee that the judicial function is performed with honor and responsibility, although it certainly makes it the largest number of judges. Therefore, it was necessary to find a solution which, with the guarantee of the continuity of the judicial function and the release of judges of imperative efficiency at all costs, would nevertheless establish a certain objective criterion that would allow professional control of the quality of the work of judges. Therefore, the establishment of an ethical committee as a permanent working body at the High Council of the Judiciary, which is the essence of both laws I am talking about today, thus fulfilling this task, namely objectively based control, which, on the one hand, retains the dignity and authority of the judges and, on the other hand, strengthens the legitimacy of their decisions. The Ethics Committee will decide on the actions of the judges, i.e. on the basis of the codes, to assess what concrete actions the judges are incompatible with the performance of the significant function assigned to them, and this further implies not only the insistence on strict and strict application of the law, but guarantees impartiality, both when it comes to the circumstances of the legal matter and when it comes to the personality of the parties. Thanks to the education of the Ethics Committee, not only will domestic legislation be in line with the Action Plan for the Revised Chapter 23 in the context of Eurointegration, but the judiciary will have strong ethical legitimacy, which will contribute to its reputation in society, which in itself already has a legal and preventive function in deterring law violations. With all that I've said in mind, it's no wonder that such legal solutions could only be proposed by the government that, enjoying the unrecorded support of citizens in its operation, does not deviate from ethical standards. Ensuring financial assistance to citizens during the pandemic, encouraging foreign investment to reduce unemployment, establishing clear environmental standards says only moral politicians run this country. Here I remind you of the difference between moral politicians and political moralists from the famous book of Emmanuel Kant on eternal peace, in order to point out the difference between the current government's representatives and the current opposition, which again predicates to come to power. In fact, when we look at these people who, just over a decade ago, cheered and dressed in Serbia, we don't know about moral politicians, but only political morality for which politics is a matter of mere skill to come to power, and at any cost, and that implies that every moral principle is trampled, an open lie, a populist opposition to every measure of government, with often contradictory reasons, the type of hysteria why we have limited the movement of our citizens when the pandemic of the coronary virus appears, introducing an emergency, immediately after a month or two days, the same people accused us of not introducing a state of emergency to save the lives of our citizens. To remind you, these are the people who condemned the procurement of the respirator, who had prejudged and doubted the justification of vaccination, and then rushed to stand first in line for vaccination, those who criticized the granting of money to citizens, although they know that these are responsible and well-designed measures, only to make it harder for this government and the government in general. It's a principleless operation, it's an unbiased policy which, for that very reason, has no programme or clear political direction. Political morality only knows that the populists are smart, that they are the critics of everything, that they are publicly called, that they are diphthalming and beautiful labels. By doing so, if by any accident they were still in power, nothing would have meant a law aimed at an ethical imperative in the judiciary. Their political action, both at a time when they were in power and when the people went into the seal of the same, has always been based on cheap pragmatism, and the absence of moral responsibility has led to the consequences we face today, from politics led in Kosovo, to poor privatisation, job losses, devasting institutions and corruption at every level. Fortunately, it is the responsibility of the authorities to re-establish or strengthen the institutions of the system and to work in the interest of our country's cultural, economic and social renewal. That's why in the voting day, we'll all vote for these laws. In that sense, we remain in the message of the Latin sentiment “fiat yustia, pereat mundus,” which Kant, in the aforementioned writing, ridiculously translated – let justice rule, even if that is why all the thieves in this world have failed. I just want to say a few more words. We are witnessing that Serbia is growing, that Serbia is developing. Day after day, we're witnessing how factories are opened, people are hired. In order not to discuss all the results this government has achieved, a 500 - page brochure will soon come out, detailing what we have done for the benefit of our country and our people. When the results of previous authorities and those who again want to take the state saddle are compared, it will be clear who worked and who thought of the interest of Serbian citizens, and who worked exclusively in his own interest. And finally, it will undoubtedly lead us to victory in elections at all levels, because our citizens vote for a clear programme, for a visible policy of results, and for threats to various rematchisms, motor saws, blood spills, they never did, nor will vote. Because of this, I appeal to opposition members not to use faceless, easily verifiable untruths and insults at the expense of this government, but to give some constructive criticism or some suggestion that they think they're doing something better than we are and to come up with a healthy idea to gain maybe citizens' trust, instead of not being able to fight in the political arena using the biggest accidents that people can happen, not using the truth. I'll just give you a few examples. Think of liquefying in the course of an epidemic of the coronary virus when someone lost their lives, accusing them immediately that this government is guilty of it, even though the results are completely different. The results indicate that among the countries that had the smallest casualties in the region, that we had the largest number of respirators, that we had the largest number of vaccines, that we had built the most hospitals. Remember those crazy accusations that the government was responsible for the fall of a helicopter that took off to save a baby's life, for attacking this government to set its own fires in its own factories, to make it easier to sell them, I guess, by running their logic and ideas when they were in power, during those robbery privatisations, how they were destroying their own businesses, to sell them for nothing. In addition to these truths that try to discredit each of the members of this government, they invent notor truths that it is a certain Mario Maletic, who wrote a tweet the other day with content written for tweets written by members of the opposition avant-garde Anderson's fairy tale for children who are read before bedtime, and how he, this certain Maletic, is in some high office at the Justice Ministry, although it has nothing to do with the truth. And they are not ashamed or ashamed to attack one of the most honorable and wisest members of the Serbian people of Patriarch Porphyri, whom they condemn for serving liturgy to their people for the glory of Christ in the town of Končarevo near Jagodina, accusing him of abominations I do not even want to mention in this high house. Also, they are excited to see the floods happen again, which they would immediately accuse of blaming Aleksandar Vukic and, of course, they would probably promise that if they eliminate him from the political scene in Serbia, they will arrange that it will never rain again and that floods on the territory of the Republic of Serbia never happen again. Now they've attacked, these days, that the government is guilty because one floor of the construction on Vracar has collapsed and that the president, mayor or manager of the city is guilty. But I would only like, as far as I am concerned, to remind myself that during the term of office of former Mayor Dragan Gilas in 2011, an accident occurred when a similar accident occurred when the country collapsed while digging up a foundation for a kindergarten in the Kalvari area of the country where four innocent people died. That's the difference between you and us, dear Mr. Gilas. We didn't accuse you at the time that you were guilty while the army of your soldiers, by your order, on your Internet portal like vultures, crashed into SNS, whatever happened. The moral and ethical codes that are for us are the wall over which we stop and we will never cross it for you and your like-minded are just a low groin that you skip every day to get to the authorities as soon as possible. Similarly to that sentiment of Borko Stefanovic, published in the Vikiliks depes in 2008, it seems to me, when he said paraphrase, wait, I think to the Americans - wait until we win the second round of elections and we will easily solve the problem of Kosovo, which clearly shows what your political platform is based on. After all, even if you bring up such falsehoods every day, do not at least use such retrograde rhetoric and such a primitive dictionary that we would be ashamed of the greatest primitives we know. What you're saying to the Prime Minister, that a fool on public shows, for the president of the state, is that he's sick, for the MPs, that the mob is a bunch of seciks, a bunch of lowlifes, and a subpar of the mob, that says more about you than it does about us. In doing so, these are some of the gentlest epithets I have mentioned and you present such abominations to my distinguished colleague Marijana Rističević, who is for all of you the image of honesty, intelligence and education, but not the formal one that is depicted for you in expensive suits and expensive cars, like the one you go to on a rally, but the essential one based on morality, honor, face and true concern for your people. Just because Mr. Risticevic, instead of a Porsche with his peasants, drives a tractor every day, doesn't mean he's any worse than your gentleman, Alexic, who was convicted of slander before the judiciary, you'd call him a liar and a bastard, but I won't, because I don't want to use the vocabulary that you're using. All these slanders you're making, of course, are part of your political platform, your political folklore, which you're using instead of programs and ideas, but they certainly won't bring you back to the state saddle. In the election, if you muster the courage to go out on them, you'll have to offer the people a program, but, gentlemen, you've been honored for many years, what you've done. Let's remind ourselves, we had a broken economy, with no chance and a vision of success. Destroyed army, highest unemployment rate, minimum salary in the region. We had a kiM almost recognised as a skilled, unskilled, probably both skillful and well-designed issue to the International Court of Justice, but we'll leave it to history to judge. Today Serbia is a respected country, today Serbia is a respected country, a country driven by a peaceful, rational and peaceful progress policy. A country that extends the hand of friendship to all who want it, but a country whose rule is superior and works exclusively in the interest of its people. It is a SNS policy defined and implemented by Aleksandar Vukic, and a policy that leads us to a healthier and happier and better future in all fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8479	Thank you. Rules of Procedure, Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8480	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I appeal to article 27 and immediately to say at the very beginning I do not ask that in the voting day the Assembly be made known about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's just that I haven't found another way, because the events, unfortunately, are overcoming us, unfortunately, some events are overcoming us, and during my presentation I didn't have that information, and at this point I didn't have any other way, and I think at this point I can address the right address, it's the Ministry of Justice, it's the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it's a reaction to the international community. In fact, a few moments ago, I would like to seek a violation of dignity, because dignity, not only of the National Assembly, has been injured Serbia's dignity, but no one has done it here in the O.R., so I can't do it. So, a few moments ago, information appeared in the media that a guy named Risto Jovanovic, who was arrested at Gazimestan, was sentenced to six months in prison, replaced a fine of 6,700 euros, because, as defined in the verdict, you check if I'm wrong, he intended to cause dissension and impatience between ethnic communities during the marking of Vidovdan in Gazimestan. Jovanovic, among other things, has been banned from entering the KIM space for the next five months. For this very reason, I took advantage of the opportunity to report, because the best address is you, of course, through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to seek first and foremost, the response of the International Community, because as a few times a colleague spoke, while Serbia advocates peace and stability, while acting wisely and rationally, while leading a wise and rational policy, not wanting to deepen conflicts, not falling to the provocations that come from the other side, not responding to wartime Hague rhetoric, we definitely have what kind of response we have on the other hand. Are we going to have double standards and double arches again? I am asking you on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, and I hope that other colleagues will join you, to appeal through the Ministry of Justice, to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the Government is appealing to the International Organisations, to respond to such a shameful and extremely fast sentence. I thank you and apologize to the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8481	I thank my colleagues, and I join the condemnation of such a shameful verdict. I give my word to Justice Minister Maji Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8482	The government of the Republic of Serbia will surely react, this is an amazing condemnation and in an incredibly short period of time. What I can say, and what we saw, all the footage and the arrest of the gentleman, is that one in a series of provocations. A reaction from the government of the Republic of Serbia will definitely follow as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8483	I thank you, the word has a National MP, Vesna Nedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8484	The Honorable Chairman, respected minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in Chapter 23 concerning the judiciary, is scheduled to amend the Law on Judges in the High Court, in order to introduce the ethnic committee as a permanent working body, the jurisdiction of the Rules of Procedure on Labour, as well as the obligation to draw up a report on its work. In order to create justice, which will be independent and independent without the influence of politics, and current authorities, in its work and decision-making. This is Serbia's commitment to the EU, defined by the action plan for Chapter 23. The four main problems in Serbia's judiciary were insufficient independence, inappropriate and inconsistent laws, unequal burden on courts and judges and inadequate training of judges, causing dissatisfaction among citizens of the judiciary. We remember in 2009 and the catastrophic reform of the judiciary that 500 judges left out of work, so to speak on the street. The government at the time admitted a mistake so that they could not defend themselves with amnesia, and for this very reason we must remind the citizens of Serbia that the independent judiciary was then only the imagination at the bottom of the institution scale. Less than 10% of the citizens trusted the judicial authorities. The 2009 failed reform cost Serbia between five and six billion dinars paid in the name of the compensation for material damage, i.e. unpaid salaries, as well as the costs of the procedures they have been conducting. As for the compensation of immaterial damage, damage to honor, reputation, etc. We don't have the exact information. Individual demands and damage were from several hundred thousand dinars to several million dinars. The founding state of the ministry's debt to the court's experts, judges, jurors, was tens of millions of euros. Those debts are fully paid. The reform was conducted during the time when Serbian President Boris Tadic was and Justice Minister Snezana Malovic. The problem of the Serbian government and President Aleksandar Vukic is the fight against crime and corruption. This battle must not be protected, laid down by a function, no membership card will be a protection for those who do not respect the law. A decisive fight against crime in every form will make a full contribution to supporting economic development and a good host to all world investors. For the first time in our history, the state is determined to reduce crime to the lowest possible extent. This battle is about you, the judges, the prosecutors, because without you, we can't win. So return your faith in the judiciary, show the ordinary man that Serbia is a country governed by law, law and justice. The biggest conspiracy from the declaration of Serbia and the Serb people to genocide and the culprit for all wars is Natasa Kandic, someone who uses every moment to support pressure against the Serb people. Now, in a desire to declare Serbs genocide, he also has the support of society by Aljbin Kurti and Marinika Tepic. She characterised her fellow Parliamentarian, quote – Marinika Tepic is the only one who has a political future, brave, bright, does not give up on talking about the past. Natasa Kandic is talking about Mrs and Preletecevic, who is ordering her parents to violently evict journalists from their homes. Is that an example of democracy they support? I'm asking you now – how is it possible where Serbs want to accuse of genocide why there is no Serb there? Where did this Serb people disappear from Croatia, where did they disappear from Kosovo and Metohija, if Serbs were the ones who committed crimes and genocide in those areas that the Serbs were not there or are the Serb minorities? Why are you harassing a woman back in Djakovica, organizing protests against a woman outside her door, threatening to kill her, why don't you let Dragici Gasic live where she was born? In the voting day, I will support the bill's proposal, as well as my parliamentary group, Alexander Vukic, for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8485	Thank you. In accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8486	We're going back to work. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8487	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, will certainly support everything that is proposed today and what is before us in the day of voting as the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Of course, these laws, as well as the human resources, will contribute to the even greater confidence of citizens in judicial authorities, generally in the judiciary, but, most importantly, I am convinced that we will go through this discussion through everything that concerns an ordinary citizen, because these people vote for us, these people have the right to ask us everything they care about and also to bring criticism, as well as praise. Unfortunately, citizens have been more interested in criticism lately, because praise is easy to get used to, but criticism is certainly something that corrects us all, pushes us forward and helps us make conditions even better for our citizens. We have heard from previous fellow Members of Parliament their opinion on the proposed laws, but we have also heard what they specifically think about certain humane solutions. My presentation today will not be in line with all that previous fellow MPs have said for a simple reason why I still represent a certain number of citizens who voted for the Serbian Progressive Party, but I also represent citizens who view politics a little wider, as well as these laws, but also an opportunity as long as you, a respected minister here before us, that in the discussion with you, we may be able to answer some questions that we have not received so far or some of the activities that are current in the last period of time. This is where we heard from your presentation about Mrs. Dolovac's biography. We have also heard references, we have heard a lot of quality data, but unfortunately, in recent years, Mrs Dolovac has been exposed to a kind of campaign, a painful campaign, which is caused only by the fact that this woman does not want to deal with politics, she does not want to participate in the daily-political accounting of a part of the opposition with representatives of the most often Serbian Progressive Party and because she does not want to be a puppet of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic or Boris Tadic. Not long ago, it seemed to me last year, there was an unremembered scandal, when in August of the month Marinika Tepic literally chased Mrs Dolovac in her private time. It seems to me that there was a private restaurant and that there was a whole media action, a performance, where she abused her position as some political representative, and where she was trying, I don't know what to do, all the time causing Mrs. Dolova to react. Unfortunately, and then, and here it is today, it has somehow become normal for people who, after all, want to return to power, to do just that to everyone in our country. Is that Mrs. Dolovac, is that a national MP, is that a journalist, is that anyone else who does the job the way he thinks he should work or simply doesn't do what Dragan Gilas expects, is a legitimate target for them. Add to all this the fact that until just a few years ago Mrs. Dolovac was an extraordinary frame for them. In this same tide a few years ago, Borko Stefanovic expressed great praise for her account, and today she is the strongest critic, and then the question arises what could have happened so much and gone into such extreme hatred? Well, that's all that happened, as in many examples around us, that people simply don't want to succumb to any influence from these overrich politicians. So today, anyone who performs his function in a safe and responsible manner is legitimately targeted. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I will read only what was said by Borko Stefanovic in his speech, which took place in this tide, for the aforementioned Mrs Dolovac. "Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues, Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac is a great prosecutor. Her résumé is impressive. She's been through all the cases in the D.A.'s office. Mrs. Dolovac is someone whose professionalism and knowledge really has nothing to resent. She is a woman who came at a difficult time to this responsible function, introduced some very positive things, introduced some principles, rules, introduced an evaluation, introduced criteria that, until then, absolutely did not exist." Just a few years later, all this stuff that's been said doesn't exist anymore, the worst things about that lady are said and again for one single reason, and that's because she doesn't want to be part of any policy, and especially not to play the way Dragan Gilas wanted it to play. The prosecution, as well as the judiciary, 100 times, the respected minister, from this place I ordered, must be independent and in the interests of Serbian citizens. It's the most important thing. Also, I can't help but look at the fact that somehow people who represent the SNS today or make the government are somehow always in a subordinate position for the simple reason that one part of the opposition's terror knows no bounds and whether these are open threats, calls to lynch, worst insemination, insult or attempt to endanger the security and security of each of us, somehow it always remains without an adequate response from the judiciary. We have talked countless times here about how many times the family of President Alexander Vukic was threatened in one way or another, whether it is through social networks, certain media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas or in various performances, but we never wanted to do the same thing when it comes to some opposite side. Whenever any of them received any threat, which was very rare, we always strongly condemned it and called for the perpetrators to be brought to justice. I am saying this for the simple reason that in the last seven days we have witnessed the terrible pressure that the Serbian government is under, but also President Aleksandar Vukic. Many times we have been able to witness that by generating some kind of affair, of course, false affairs, by raising tensions in society, that part of the opposition gathered around Dragan Gilas is creating an atmosphere for something to come in the coming period. I'll remind you that last year was a similar atmosphere in March and April of the month, especially in June, so that in July of the month we had protests in front of this institution when more than 100 officers were injured, dozens hard, when you had a situation that one police officer had almost become disabled because at the same time, both his legs were broken, when they were shot with stones weighing over five kilos. We still don't know whether or not those who commit these acts have been convicted. If you're throwing a rock at someone who weighs over five kilos, it's not just preventing an official from performing his official duty or how it's already defined, but it's, you'll agree, attempted murder. Why am I telling you all this? For the simple reason that in recent days, the rhetoric of Dragan Gilas has been tightening and increasingly similar to that of last year. You today have statements where he clearly calls that if he does not meet something from the fountain of desire, how he imagines a party dialogue, not only boycotts, but also brings the people to the streets and that it will no longer be a boycott, but it will be protests and that these protests will fight for everything they want. What kind of question is being raised to an ordinary citizen? What are they going to do on the street to meet all these demands? I am now rightly asking not from the corner of the MP, but from someone who lives in Belgrade and Serbia what I can expect will happen if Dragan Gilas does not fulfill all his fantasies and all that he imagined in his fountain wish. Are we going to have those bloody scenarios again like we did in July last year, and can we as a society now respond to such threats and such announcements? What is particularly worrying is the dose of hypocrisy he shows in his statements, so he said that no protest of the opposition has been violent so far. I don't know what happened then and how they're watching everything that happened last year? If we don't want to look back, what's the name of what they did during the week, destroying then the Republic Square that was renovated and fighting with traffic signs is it violence or is it a peaceful protest? If that's not violence too, here I am, asking everyone here what it is and how is it defined by the violent invasion of RTS, the breaking of doors, the harassing of employees, the waving of a chain saw over the heads of people just doing their job? What's it called? How do you define that? How do you define any protest in which you have dozens and hundreds of injured officers? Also, what worries is that all of this comes from people who are prone to some kind of violence, blackmail, and are also connected to people from a criminal environment? I just mentioned Marinika Tepic. Here, in recent days we are getting information that a certain Filipovic, a fitness coach from Pančeva, who was a business and close associate of Marinika Tepic, for a decade, therefore, for more than 10 years, received tasks from her. So, with a message to promise her that a certain journalist, Mitch Milakov, will be careful now, to move out of Panchev. So she asked him to move Mica Milakov out of Pancheva. You know that. This looks like some kind of mob rhetoric. You can see this in movies or it appears somewhere in some kind of court proceedings. But that's not the end of it. That man was arrested and suspected of dealing some kind of drug, I think it was 1.4 kilos of marijuana. When he told her he had knowledge, i.e. That he would appear to be arrested, she told him then, again in the mob scenario – get out of the way for a while until all things quiet down. So, it's like we're living, like we're watching Godfather. After that, when this connection appeared, she stated that she had never seen him in her life and had never heard of him. These are pictures of you, where they are together in these pictures, both in private association and in the protests "One of the Five Million", behind which they were hiding back then. So he's the one who's been collecting people for her and bringing them in. If that's small, if they say they happened to be found in that society, let us explain to us a picture of where it is then in one of the many parties that it has changed, it was then the New Party, where they sit together and chair at some meeting. Why am I saying all this? Because it's dangerous for people who claim power and people who obviously have some kind of suspicious past or present. And now I'm wondering as an ordinary citizen, if they take people to the streets, organise some kind of protest, unsatisfactory because I don't know what kind of wish they've had, how many more of these people we're going to have who, by the order of Marinika Tepic, Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, are going to commit some kind of violence, attack an institution building or hurt some other police officer, deal with some of the MPs or with some of the citizens who just support SNS policy or look forward to the success that our country achieves? It's dangerous what they're doing, because they're putting us in a position to say that Alexander Vukic is a great president and that a lot of things and that he does a lot of good for our country, you're a legitimate target. And that's why we have to react to these phenomena in our society, so we don't get into a situation where things happen, and then we just react. For the very end, unfortunately, none of the news associations responded to Vuk Jeremic's statement, which is only one of the two or three people who have been tightening their rhetoric to the maximum these days. We talked here and about rematch, I don't know any lustration, we talked about how they threaten people -- and you're gonna pay, and I'm going to judge you, but I'm curious to know from what point of view that man can say that he's going to tear down one television and that he's sending a message to people and who are employed there that they're legitimate targets? The question is, hypothetically, what would happen if one of the MPs or ordinary SNS activists had said ten times less dangerous things about any media that was directly controlled by Dragan Gilas? Would anyone react then? I'd be sure. And I would ask, as I ask today, that someone be sanctioned, because such things are inadmissible in the 21st century. It's unacceptable to threaten someone just because you disagree with them. Speaking of Vuk Jeremic, this man will remain remembered, along with Dragan Gilas, in history, not only after those pestilent things they did while in power, but also because in July they invited their supporters to gather in front of this home, cause some coup, which they called people to some kind of violence, but they will be remembered also by those people who called them, driving them out of these protests, so now they're brave Vuk Jeremic, who exhibits his courage most on Twitter, as he ran down those stairs, got countless shots on the head, retreated from that rally, and then accused Drago Dilas of these men. Now in this mutual bickering for a better starting position in the opposition, you see that their only and main target is how and how to humiliate, insult and threaten anyone today who wants to support SNS policy and, above all, President Alexander Vukic. That is why I ask you, dear minister, with your authority, but within the limits of your powers, to influence you, so that even through some of the following laws, we protect, above all, the citizens of Serbia, because you know, a group of politicians who see politics and public affairs as only a personal interest and a struggle for personal wealth will not prevent anything from coming true in this desire. If the law fails, I'm afraid of the consequences we'll have. And it is obvious that in their intentions they neither intend to stop, nor, for God's sake, to ease rhetoric or potential acts. That's why I wish you a lot of success. I want you to apply these laws only to bring good to the citizens, and to all personnel solutions, so I will call them one name, I want them to follow the law, to work by law, and thus to safeguard the safety, stability and security of our citizens, our Serbia. And we, I am confident, as the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, we will support these proposals and the next responsible policy of President Alexander Vukic to continue to do everything in our ability to improve the lives of our country's citizens, all our children and generations to come. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8488	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8489	Thank you. It is an honor and pleasure to have the Minister of Justice here today with his associates, to have a united debate on two extremely important laws, namely their amendments and additions, as well as decisions that are accompanying and related to the election of the president of the basic courts, as well as the Republic Prosecutor. At the very beginning, I would like to join the congratulations of all who have already congratulated Kurban-Bajram today to all those who celebrate Kurban-Bajram and to point out that the parliament of the Republic of Serbia is working in a permanent session on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and it is no coincidence that we started this session today, on Wednesday. We have done so on purpose because we respect the representatives of Muslim religion in Serbia and the region. I congratulate all my friends on this occasion, I know how important Kurban-Bajram is to them, as Christians are to Easter and Christmas. For this reason, we are working today with these extremely important points of the agenda that are united, and once again to point out the importance of the work of the Serbian Parliament, which is the only one in the region doing this dynamic, which is once again the dynamics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and also of the ministry itself, which you today represent, dear minister. For that reason, I want to express my satisfaction once again as every time we have a agenda decision on the election of the President of the Court. Although we are now going in another direction, although these are trends related to negotiating chapters, etc., as long as Serbia in its National Assembly, in parliament is verifying a proposal that is unanimous and which on June 28th 2021 the VSS identified as a proposal for these 13 candidates, it will be a great thing for Serbia. So one day longer to do so, it will mean for the institutions of Serbia, for Serbia's independence, for the right path in terms of and divided into three branches of government, but also for each other's control all three pillars of government, and for this parliamentary surveillance and verification that we have here, a great thing for the institutions of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia, regardless of what goes on in the next period of time. It's my personal court, my personal position, because the trends that are somewhere in the region, I'm just taking an example of BiH, so I'm going in this direction, unfortunately, haven't shown good results. But we understand what trends are, what attitudes from the Venice Commission and other institutions that pointed to these changes, which we can talk more about in the next time period. In that context, I also want to point out once again what is the subject of the interest of certain media, but also of the general public, which is an extremely important decision, which is a decision on the choice of the Republic Public Prosecutor. Always and in every country that wants to appreciate its sovereignty, its jurisdiction, its judiciary is an important choice of the Republic Public Prosecutor and only for the various malicious respects that go towards Mrs Dolovac, which we here in the National Assembly in a certain context, at certain times criticized, but never interfered in the work of certain prosecutorial decisions, views, opinions and everything else, the course of the investigation, etc. In any case, in that context, we never wanted to interfere, as our predecessors once did, in the way the prosecutor's choice and everything else was. We support the continued work of the prosecution by this appointment, because Mrs. Dolovac was elected both in 2009 and 2015, and in 2009, the SNS was not in power, so there is no rematch, there is no story. We leave people in the D.A. to do their job. We know what the responsibility of the Republic Prosecutor is, and when we're at the responsibility of the Republic Prosecutor and about how it's supposed to be some place everyone wants so much, it's enough that no one else has run to that place and I see that they're getting out of a different context, let's say, those interpretations, and I'd say one corner that's completely rational, which is certainly personal for every mother, for every parent, for every son, who works in the prosecution, and that's that the state of Serbia is by its political decision, primarily political, and then by the decision of the executive authorities, first of all, to the MUP, and how it's decided and has the power to deal with organised crime in the region. This organized crime has the worst possible seal, and these are the individuals who went not into crime, but are engaged, judges of certain drug cartels, and we know and we can see these days how those who judge them get hurt and how they account for each other, and you can think that someone who needs to make a certain prosecutorial decision or judge who has to make the verdict tomorrow would go through. So, it's not an easy job, it's not a responsible job to go tomorrow, to go on a normal life, and it's dealing with a regional world mafia that cuts off heads, which does things that we can see every day and by means of public information, and we can see for that reason because it wasn't a topic before. That's not what we talked about before. It used to be said there was no crime in Serbia, there was no organised crime, there was no drug mafia, there was this conversation and it was hiding, and that's why we had these black records. Today, Serbia's criminal record shows real statistics, doesn't leave a black zone, that black zone where you say -- so many crimes have been committed to create some false statistics, so lower that number, and in the black zone it remains everything you don't want to deal with, because the previous government didn't want to oppose the drug clans, with these two biggest drug clans. The state of Serbia said, President Aleksandar Vukic, gave political support and political will, above all, to the prosecutor's office that he could, with the protection of all the institutions of Serbia, deal with his work for which they were both educated and for which they were elected and for which they received support from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We give them for this fight, not for them personally, support here in the institutions of Serbia and it is extremely important to separate. In that sense, I wouldn't talk much more about it, but I would say about these two laws a few things that are extremely important. First of all, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges which, in its Article 1, now includes, let me say, special words, and so it is said - are being added by taking care of the complexity of the case, and in an explanation when you read... It is extremely important that we, as MPs, have every day the opportunity to, when we speak to citizens, meet this problem, and this problem is very simply called, it is called - a trial within a reasonable time. And we come before political parties, we listen to these citizens, but we can't influence the work of the judiciary. These are the interventions that are precisely to be taken in this direction that, when a particular case is indicated to a particular judge, care must be taken of the classification, due diligence must be taken into account in the work. Not all judges, all prosecutors can be watched. So we have 95% certainly honorable judges and prosecutors doing their job and 5% of those who dirty up there, let's say, honorary profession in that kind of story. Therefore, the principle of measurement, therefore, is the principle of complexity of the subject to whom to assign a particular object, how much a particular judge is, to say, burdened with other objects, how much a particular object he carries in this case, as explained, by the witnesses and the skills of the different and how long it will take, etc. Therefore, it is extremely important to whom you will assign a specific object in this kind of story. Also, what he would point out, I would not specifically refer to this ethical committee, but in any case, the influence of the ethics board... His fixed, let me say, category in the law itself will make an exceptional contribution in terms of assessing the work of judges, but I would refer to Article 4 which in the basic text of Article 63 is deleted. In that article, when you read it, in principle there were words, to say, grading judges in the context of that qualification that was said to be a particular judge not to satisfy. We are now erasing this article and calling for recommendations is great that we did not write this, but we are quoting the recommendation given here by the Constitutionally Greater European Judges, and, among other things, I quote: "The principle of continuity of functions and invariableness represents key elements of judicial independence and must be respected. Therefore, the judge should not resolve functions just because he has received a negative assessment. The resolution should take place in the event of serious disciplinary or criminal offences." Since you quoted this as not your fault, which is the mistake of the Constitutional Council of European Judges, there are no criminal offences in this case, as they stated here. There are no criminal offences. Maybe it's not in the translation that defined it. Imagine someone who's past official duty, even under official duty, which is the thin line that's most important... What is it when a judge, to say, or a prosecutor, if we go a little wider, what does it mean when he commits a crime outside his official duty, so I don't know, God forbid, he's running down a car and someone has serious physical injuries, or he commits a certain crime in the performance of an official duty that is extremely difficult to prove? Now we're erasing this provision here and saying it's wrong to judge it that way. I must say, in any case, I'm very skeptical about this. I understand what the recommendations are, but if we are talking about recommendations, negotiating chapters, Chapter 23 or the rule of law cluster, then it is extremely important to point out that Serbia, today's Serbia headed by Alexander Vukic, is also firmly defined by this National Assembly towards European integration and that we respect these recommendations, even when we do not consider these things so correct, because we want to adapt our EU legislation. However, if we look at these things and look at it in a certain, broader context, we can say that certain things are certainly not something that Serbia could object to. We are objected every day by representatives of the so-called so-called The opposition, so they're complaining to us about these things. Gentlemen, make up your mind, are you up for a trip to the EU, to coordinate our legislation with the EU, with the AKI or not? You'd be a bit of a matchmaker for the EU, and on the other hand, when you see that something didn't echo well in public, you act like the ultimate populist and try to side with some public who didn't properly analyze those things. So, we've stalled every single thing here. We know certain things, and we are not afraid of certain decisions that mean harmonisation in all of this, but we have the right to an opinion. We will provide support for these legal solutions, but we will also monitor how they are applied. Tomorrow we can get some members back, change, etc. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8490	Thank you. The next is National MP Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8491	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honored Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have two laws, a draft law supplementing the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges. Since our colleagues have said a lot about it, let me just say two, three sentences to say what the objective of these laws is. The aim is to meet the necessary steps to realise the necessary and taken by the international community and recommendations of the Council of Europe's Group of States in the fight against corruption. That's the goal. When it comes to the choice of judges, only two, three sentences, I must say that our judiciary before the arrival of the SNS and Alexander Vukic was the last in Europe. In the election, the judges did not stick to both the skills and the training and the least about dignity. Not to spread much about it, to say that in the history of this part of Europe, it did not happen that in the 21st century the assistant minister during Gilas's rule was a man with medium professional training. What could you have expected of this man when it comes to justice and justice? Something unrecorded happened in the history of the judiciary by choosing a dead judge, for a year he was dead from Pozega, for a judge. Although Nata Mesarovic, cousin Boris Tadic, said she had spoken more than 200 hours with each individual, until today, I often call her, did not explain how she could have talked to a dead judge. Let me get this straight. Thus, they did not stick to the skills, nor to the training, nor to the least dignity. What were they holding on to? Only party commitment, whether or not it's a member of the DS. Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, we have been having co-ordinated attacks on President Aleksandr Vukic, the state of Serbia and the SPC in recent days. Ahead of a very important meeting of President Aleksandar Vukic with representatives of the provisional Pristina institutions in Brussels on 19th of this year, respected MPs, political attacks against Alexander Vukic, political vultures, tycoon, mafia, political, domestic, foreign activities, protectors of so-called. Kosovo independence. They attacked President Vukic in the most ground-based way with slanders, lies, fictions this time all the way from abroad. Since I won't speak in my mind, I'll be very specific. One of them is Montenegro's president, Milo Djukanovic, a former Serb, called a milorean, is so known in the people. The attacks were directed this time whether or not by the International Convention on the Western Balkans in Bratislava. In a speech full of unseen hatred in Bratislava, Djukanovic attacked the fierce president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, the SPC, the state of Serbia and even Russia. You know what he said there when he attacked Alexander Vukic, because of what he says I quote- for the protection of the interests of the Serb people in Montenegro, which he is trying to present as a legitimate goal, finished the quote. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course President Aleksandar Vukic and the state of Serbia will assist our people in Montenegro, respecting Montenegro's independence, as it is their decision to be an independent state. We have no problem with that, but with the position of the Serb people in Montenegro we have problems. Djukanovic from Bratislava interferes with the internal affairs of the Serbian state, disrupting its territorial integrity, arguing so-called. Independence of KIM. You told Djukanovic in Bratislava, I quote -- it is the opinion of many that Serbia lost Kosovo when Russia was weak, which means that now might be the time for Kosovo to return, the quote ended. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Montenegro, is this a interference in our country's internal affairs? With this statement you have opened up, Mr Djukanovic, who knows which time you violated the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and you accuse Alexander Vukic. You, Mr Djukanovic, are constantly falsely accusing President Vukic because he advocates dialogue to resolve a compromise, fair and lasting problem for Kosovo. You confessed, Mr. Djukanovic, so-called. Independently, Kosovo has violated our country's territorial integrity. You, Mr. Djukanovic, are so embarrassingly trying to wash your biography when it comes to KIM and when it comes to the position of the Serb people in Montenegro. Aleksandar Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia, and the state of Serbia will not give up KIM and our people at KIM. Do you know, Mr. Djukanovic, why? Because Kosovo's problem is the problem of human rights, not the territorial issue. Do you know more, Mr. Djukanovic, why? Because KIM in the history of the Serbian people is the central place and is the cradle of the Serbian state, Mr Djukanovic. Do you know why else? Because KIM is a Serbian territory with the highest concentration of the spiritual and world heritage of the Serbian people of invaluable value. Do you know why else, Mr. Djukanovic? Because the essence of the problem in KIM, respected citizens, is not about the persecution of Albanians, the violation of their human rights or lack of autonomy. The main issue, Mr Djukanovic, is in the separatist-sessionist drive towards violent isolation of Serbian territory, which is the core of the Serbian state and the cradle of Serbian culture. You know why else, Mr. Djukanovic? Because KiM was never, but it was never an Albanian state. Do you know why else, Mr. Djukanovic, an ex-Serbian? Because no part of the Serbian state can be declared a sovereign state by either political, legal, economic or ethical basis, nor can any national minority, in this case Albanian, be declared a sovereign and state-of-the-art nation by all documents, not domestic but foreign. Mr. Djukanovic, you have accused shamefully and falsely of who knows which way SPC is covering up its own failures and its human and political fall. You, Mr. Djukanovic, have given yourself the right to regulate the religious life and structure of the Serbian Orthodox Church according to your DPS party. And you put that in your political program, and you're not a Serb, as you say, but by nationality, you said, "Montenegro." That, Mr. Djukanovic, is a precedent that has not been seen anywhere in Europe. You have accused the SPC in Bratislava of, quote, "the slanderous nationalist clerical fascist". What the Serb brothers in Montenegro would say and those who declare themselves to be Montenegrins -- poor, poor. And the deceased was blessed by the rest of the patriarch Iriney criticized you when he was 9. 8. In 2020, he said, quote: "Dukanovic was brought to Patriarchy in 1998 and presented as the future and a strong perspective of the Serbian people, and today, I am overwhelmed by grief when I see how deep a human fall can be. With such a demand for the possibility of compromise, I don't believe it." That's what the Patriarch Iriney said. You attacked Russia, too, but I won't. I will finish about you, sir, when it comes to you, Djukanovic, quoting a Serbian MP in Montenegro: "When, Mr Djukanovic, you took votes from Serbs, from the Russians billions, from the SPC blessing, you were a greater Serb than anyone, a greater believer than a patriarch. Now you're trying to be a traitor. Don't try, you are," said a Serbian MP in the Montenegrin parliament, Milan Knezevic. You, Mr. Djukanovic, visited Srebrenica this July this year, which is a civil act. How come you former Serbs didn't find yourself in Kravica a day earlier to pay your respects to Serbian victims? Prior to President Aleksandar Vukic's departure to Brussels for talks with representatives of the provisional Pristina institutions, for a difficult conversation, seeking a compromise, fair and lasting solution for our Serbian province, another member of parliament came forward, and this time Nenad Canak. He went to Pristina, before the president went to Brussels, and met with Kurti Alis Kurtovic to support the so-called. Independent Kosovo. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, as you know, Canak is 5. 3. In 2017, as a presidential candidate, he said, "I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence." Do you understand why he went to Pristina before the presidential trip to Brussels? Canak also went to Srebrenica and, behold, miraculously, from there directly in the transfer he attacked the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, for not coming to Srebrenica. I guess he wanted them to try to kill him again, because until today, they haven't investigated the attempted murder on his visit to Srebrenica. Canak met before this time and with Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro, he says -- he stopped by for coffee, to lobby together for independent Kosovo and Metohija. He probably negotiated with Djukanovic that Milo would attack Alexander Vukic in Bratislava and Kurta in Brussels. And behold, miracles, and not only them, but this time, Dragan Gilas, before the talks in Brussels, attacked his portal, Alexander Vukic, by supporting Belivuk, announcing a scandalous text in which he admitted that he had disgraced President Vukic at the football game in Novi Sad for arresting Belivuk. After acknowledging that the Belivuk criminals had scanned "Wolf, Gay", Gilas' portal openly stepped on their side. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, to cut short. Dragan Gilas, in a people known as the Giki Mafia, is not at all interested in Belgrade or Belgrade's development, he is only interested in money and robbery. That's not just me saying. Look at the miracles, he did nothing for his mandate in Belgrade, except transfer millions of euros to his accounts. Note, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you distinguished MPs, that Gilas is not interested in Belgrade's development and former US Ambassador to Belgrade Cameron Manter, who said 19. On 3 August 2009, I quote, "Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade's development is only marketing, not real," a quote was completed. Isn't that right, Mr. Gilas, and for Europe, you're jilas? When it comes to Nenad Canak, to point out, in the latest literature, German diplomat Gert Arens discovered in his book "Diplomacy on the Edge" that Nenad Canak 13. 12. In 1991, he sent Lord Karington and the Yugoslav Conference a memorandum on Vojvodina, which I quote, that's what Gert Arens said, saying, that Nenad Canak said: "The future of Vojvodina is to become a confederal unit of Serbia, but if Serbia does not accept it, then it will be an independent state," the quote concluded. By the way, the book also says that Nenad Canak in 1990 proposed to the president of the Republic of Otto von Habsburg by who knows which time he humiliated the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Finally, while our President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, day by day, is making superhuman efforts to restore Serbia's international reputation, implementing a policy of peace, security, solidarity policy, a policy of health for all citizens in Serbia and the region, a policy of finding dialogue and a compromise and lasting solution for our southern Serbian province, and for Serbs and Albanians in KIM, a policy of accelerated economic development, respected citizens, so far Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic are in all ways trying, in co-operation with foreign factors, to return to power, giving up KIM, to bring Serbia back to bankruptcy. These days they're launching lies through their media. As a historian, I haven't seen it in history. Here, President Vukic opened a new House of Health in Borca and immediately his media came there to launch lies in the title, but eventually they admitted that it was an extraordinary home of health, but they will be, they know it, the citizens of Palilu, and the sewers, but, God, and the gas. This time, I thank the MPs from the municipality, Mr Todorovic and Mrs Mijatovic and the Belgrade municipality MPs for the support they provided at the time. In the end, the people know well, Mr. Gilas, and they remember and do not forget. You know why? Because you and Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic destroyed our past, destroyed our present, destroyed our children's future, and if you had stayed only a year in power, they would have destroyed our roots. That's why the people remember well. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8492	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. Next is the National MP of Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8493	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Hardysic. Dear Minister, Mrs Popovic, dear Mr Pavlovic of the VSS, distinguished fellow MPs, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would first like to begin at the beginning of all the citizens of the Islamic religion, all the citizens of Serbia and the countries in the region, to congratulate Kurban-Bajram. I want you to spend it in health and joy and we all contribute together to strengthening our Serbia, regardless of religion, nation and political membership. As regards today's legislative proposals, I agree, that I would not repeat myself, with everything that counterparts Kesar, Mirkovic and Šukalo have said about the proposed laws and about the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, Mrs Zagorka Dolovac, but what, in this regard, about the judiciary, which I would like to point out today is about an atmosphere that we have in Serbia today, which is actively involved by opposition leaders, i.e. Part of the opposition led by Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic, on the one hand, drug dealers who are on the loose and who are in jail on the other, and a certain fan group. In moments when the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, together with you from the Serbian government, makes everything better for Serbia, does everything and, in addition to this growth of numbers now new to the crown of the virus, do everything to stop these figures and to win, I hope, by the end of the year, that monster from the crown of the virus and when we do everything together with all of us MPs in the fight against the mafia, we have one climate in Serbia where the opposition politicians are laughing at all these good things that the Serbian Government and judicial institutions, police, BIA and other security services are doing in the fight against the mafia and at the same time provide unreservable support and part of the fan groups "Partizana". I say the part because I believe and I am convinced that most of the "Partisans" fans, as well as "Red Stars", as well as other clubs give full support to the state of Serbia in the fight against the mafia and President Aleksandr Vukic. So, at a game in Novi Sad, part of the Partisan fans along with their co-workers among drug groups insults Serbia's president. It insults Serbia's president because Serbia's president leads the fight against the mafia. We have had serious results since the fight against the mafia was announced in public eight months ago, but in order for these results to continue, we must have the support of the judiciary. There, of course, is a special role for every prosecutor in Serbia, especially the special prosecutor and especially the Republic Public Prosecutor and all those prosecutors involved in these cases against organised crime. I just hope that as prosecutors do their job professionally, that judges will do so, that we don't have a situation where one drug dealer, one by one, gets out of Central Prison and other detention and prison units, to go free, to make pacts with certain judges and their lawyers, and some of the lawyers of these organised criminal clans are also in the presidency of the party Vuk Jeremic, Mr Gajic and Vujic and others, that I don't list them now that I'm not wasting my time. So, if we're talking about judges, the judge should work in the interests of the state and the people. The judge should be not in the service of the Serbian government, the president or us MPs, but in the service of citizens and states. So every judge has to take some kind of responsibility, both the prosecutor and the judge. Don't let events happen to us that the police on the orders of the prosecutor do a great job, arrest dozens of members of the criminal clan, the Veljko Belivuk clan, Miljkovic and their other clan monsters, and then one by one to go free or, even worse, which was happening earlier in Serbia, to be released from any criminal responsibility. I'm convinced of the correctness of decisions, I don't want to interfere with decisions, but I want to give support to every competent judge and prosecutor that these decisions will be right. If we take and analyze everything that's been brought to the public by the prosecution, the Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Vulin, it's clear that we have enough evidence that all these bandits, criminals, these butchers, murderers, are going to get life sentences and that they won't see the light of day if we talk about the law, if we talk about justice. In this way, a clear message will be sent to all other mafia structures in Serbia and the region – Serbia is a serious state, a democratic country of justice and justice, can no longer rule over Serbia any organised criminal clan, and in parallel with the fact that this should be, until the end, not all but every one of their tentacles in state bodies, every tentacle of the prosecution, in the judiciary, in the police, in the security services, state structures, by the ministries to be cut down. Unfortunately, we're witnessing these tentacles. Some of those mob tentacles are laughing at us today. They laugh with freedom and publicly support the insult of President Vukic in the stands. They're laughing at you from the judiciary and the D.A.'s office. They laugh at us MPs and you from the Serbian government ministries. On the other hand, we are fortunate that you, as minister of justice, one of the most important ministries in this fight against the mafia, are working professionally, responsibly, honestly and courageously. Well done, so continue, Mrs Popovic. What I told you, that's what I said to the Minister of the Interior, Vulina. It's not an advocacy, it's full support of courage, because if the president of Serbia is brave, the president to whom they threaten the entire family, is not threatening me, nor any of you to our families, perhaps once or two relatives, but President Vukic is threatening the entire family, and the president is responding to them to be as brave as possible and as strong a blow to be against the mob. Therefore, every minister in the government should do his part of the job, but cannot do it without the support of prosecutors and judges. On the other hand, I hope that there will be an atmosphere in the media in the public, and I hope that it will support the upcoming elections already convincing majority of Serbian citizens, to support this first time. We do not have many opportunities in Serbia today. These mafia clans are very dangerous, they need little to do with their tentacles in the region, not to count the states now, reform, strengthen and re-hit Serbia and hit again and prepare assassinations. So we have to support this one and only road we have, which is a road full of support for both the Serbian government and the BIA, and the MUP, and the prosecution, and the judges, and President Vukic in the fight against the mafia. The second time is a mob trip, there's no other expression. In the fight against the mob or you're against the mob, or you're working with the mob, whether you're a politician, whether you're working in a state authority, whether you're a lawyer, a judge, a prosecutor. So it's okay for a lawyer to defend his client, it's okay, but it's not right to make an organized criminal group of politicians, judges, lawyers, prosecutors, fans and drug dealers, who want to do everything, under number one, to bring down the power of Alexander Vukic and the government of Serbia, to allow the tycoon, crime and corruption rule of Serbia again, as we had in Serbia until 2012. As MPs, we should always give full support to most of the fair judges, prosecutors and the Serbian government in this fight against the mafia. When we provide full support, we give it as the voice of the people. So, we are not as individuals who worked until 2012, not individual, but most of the DS municipal committees, to discuss on the municipal committees of our parties who will be the judge. No, that doesn't interest us from the SNS and our coalition. We're interested, as MPs, only in the results. Every bill of law is excellent. All these solutions are good. Those who are not good, we have disputed. So we're your partner. A partner in the fight against the mafia and a partner in judicial reform. When we work together, we get results. It is best seen, at this time I want to commend the excellent work of the task force and all these public hearings regarding the change of the Constitution. So that's exactly where we see the unity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Justice, the professional public of Serbia, to make a good reform of our Constitution in the area of justice. Why? To make tomorrow's judiciary easier and to fight the mafia and us as a state to go into European integration. So I'm talking about one word, which is now the most important, which is unity, or call it harmony, but to stick to unity. So all institutions in Serbia, all political factors both in position and in opposition, all media should support the president and his associates in fighting the mafia. There's no other way. We can politically differ over some laws, about perhaps some conditions in the elections, who will make a better result, about the poor or good work of some local self-government in Serbia, but when it comes to fighting the crown of the virus, all unique, when it comes to fighting the mafia, all unique. Why? Because fighting the crown of the virus and fighting the mafia also means the survival of the Serbian state and of all its citizens. If we want to make a better future for our children, we need to strengthen, and number one, to save our state of Serbia, to save our country from Serbia, both the crown and all the attacks of the mafia. So, every normal citizen of Serbia, whatever religion, nation, political membership, occupation, should make his contribution in line with what he does in the fight against the mafia, and we see results, we should commend them and give them even greater and stronger support. Support for President Aleksandr Vukic and the Serbian government in the fight against the mafia, which means a better, safer and stable future for the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, full support to our president in the fight against the mafia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8494	I thank Mr. Gristle. The word is made by Minister Maja Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8495	I just wanted to answer that the authorities of the Serbian state will continue this fight against the mafia, that we will not be stopped by certain independent media currently engaged in the glorification of clans fought against by security services, prosecutors and the courts of the country. What's amazing to me in the last few days, is that the police minister was attacked because he announced some details of the investigation and showed the pictures. Well, I guess the point is to show the brutality of those clans, not to question whether he has the authority to show or not. We just want to make our citizens aware that they understand what kind of group this country is fighting, shared forces, I repeat, and security services, the Ministry of the Interior, the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime. We want to show how much this octopus was, we want to say that we know well that not everyone is under our control, that not everyone is still in custody and that we will go to the last member of that organized group and that we will certainly not stop at that job. I repeat, the media has to give us support, not pay us back. I understand that a certain so-called. Independent media are looking forward to making it a problem, to lower our efforts that are evident, but make sure that the state responds properly and that no more violence on the streets of Serbia will be allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8496	Thank you. Replica, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8497	I would just like to thank Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Maji Popovic, for everything she said. I completely agree, Minister, with what you said, and especially to thank you for pointing out one thing that I forgot to say in my speech, it's that now what you said and what Minister Vulin said the other day, which is also publicized the brutality of those clans. What you said was great, that the media must all give full support in the fight against the mafia. So all the media in Serbia should be partners with both you and the interior ministry and all those state institutions that are fighting the mafia. It's our only way. Keep up the good work, and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8498	Thank you. Now the word is Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8499	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliaments and Members of the People's Parliament, I join the congratulations of Kurban-Bajram to all representatives of the Islamic community who celebrate this holiday of charity and solidarity. I want everyone to spend it in peace, in good health and in every well-being with their neighbors, neighbors and friends. In my presentation, I will talk about the proposal to elect a republican public prosecutor and if I have any time left and the amendments to the Law on Judges. Every time we talk in this house about proposals in the field of justice, we also apostrophe and the importance of independence and independence, transparency, justice of judges and prosecutors, as well as their personal and professional responsibility and integrity. The position and role of the public prosecutor's office are defined by the Constitution of Serbia, as the country's highest legal act. So the prosecutors are independent in their work, the prosecution is an independent body and when we say independent, we should keep in mind and define clearly what that independence means, in relation to who or what it is independent of. Prosecutors and judges are also dependent on their work, i.e. on the laws, regulations, and rules of their service. There is an impression that public independence is often interpreted in relation to who is being tried, so judges and prosecutors are thought to be independent of the laws under which they are required to judge, not to judge the grandmother and uncles. The Republic Public Prosecutor's Office is an independent body that prosecutes perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences and takes measures to protect constitutionality and legality. The responsibility of a republican public prosecutor or prosecutor is the responsibility for the work of the public prosecutor's office. The republic's public prosecutor is responsible for his work as public prosecutors in the country, and he is responsible for his work to the National Assembly who is choosing him to do so. Is this going to be so after the constitutional changes that are ahead of us and the intensive work remains to be seen, but at this point it is, and that is the legacy of the 2006 Constitution, followed by the reform of the judiciary, which we also talk very often about in this house, and not to shift the guilt or responsibility of those who have designed it and implemented it, but to remind us ourselves that we must never allow such a thing to happen again? For a little while, colleagues Komlenski and counterpart Kesar spoke of the subject very professionally, directionally and responsibly, stating the facts. counterpart Kesar said the reform cost Serbian citizens 44m euros. I think the reality confirms that immaterial damage is much, much greater and if you want inconceivable and that we are living the consequences of this reform today. They can also be seen, for example, only through leaks of information from procedures in progress, in media which, most often in a very tabloid way, present the same information to the public, and thus, of course, very often violates the assumption of innocence and the right to a fair trial of the protection of human rights, the right of victims who are repeatedly exposed to victimisation in the media, because of the way they are reported. It is also an inherited and harmful practice, harmful first for the president of the state, for the government and for you as minister, but for all of us as legislators in our efforts to finally improve both the rule of law and the judicial system. I don't know what the Ministry can and should do about it to finally stop it. I believe that it will find a way to eventually in some future amendments to the law in the field of justice, to tighten the penalty measures for violations of the rights and justice of all parties, which take part in the process and when I say so, I mean judges and prosecutors who are often valuable in the media rather than on the basis of facts in terms of respect or violation of procedural and legal actions. I believe that the upcoming constitutional reforms will strengthen the judicial system and improve the rule of law and restore citizens' trust in judicial institutions and fair and fair trials, and strengthen the independence and independence of the judiciary from any political or other pressures, more specifically to strengthen their dependence on the laws and regulations and regulations in the service. Initial reforms in the judiciary are a huge responsibility for all of us both in the judicial and legislative and executive authorities. It is necessary for citizens to regain the sense of justice and justice in society of respect for laws and regulations, their consistent implementation, especially given that the reform of the judiciary we talked about from 2009, was a drop that spilled the glass and the citizens gave their unequivocal court in the first subsequent elections in 2012. They then clearly showed the importance of respecting the right to justice and conduct, the protection of human rights in court proceedings, respect for the assumption of innocence, and we should also think about it and therefore this 2009 reform should always be a reminder that we never allow such a thing again. There are many cases that we are looking at today and we are listening to in violation of both procedural rights and the rights of citizens to justice and justice. No one has ever answered or at least the public knows of such cases, they should know in which cases the prosecutors, once judges, have not respected the facts and how many citizens in such proceedings are damaged. In addition, it is also the job of a republican public prosecutor to control the conduct of prosecutors through hierarchy at least those cases of great interest in the public. It is our responsibility to face the coming huge challenges together, each in the domain of our jurisdiction. We are witnessing the challenges we face, as a modern society both in the form of classical forms of organised crime and in the light of new sophisticated forms of both economic and high-tech crime. The decisive prosecution, based on law and evidence, close co-operation and co-ordination with police and other state authorities, as well as direct effective co-operation with prosecutors and other relevant institutions of other countries prior to conditions are a successful fight against organised crime and corruption and any form of serious crime. The criminal prosecution of all forms of crime is a responsible and grateful job. Just because a Republican prosecutor doesn't advertise in public doesn't mean he doesn't do his job. However, should some of this practice be changed and especially at a time of enormous challenges more effective and more adequate communication with citizens to be addressed to what is being done. Maybe it's a question and a topic that we can discuss, discuss in one professional, serious and responsible way, not by intercepting judges and prosecutors on the street in other public places, because it's certainly not the way. The Republic's public prosecutor as public prosecutors and their deputies must be committed to professional, legal and determined prosecution. They, I'm sure, put all their professional, professional and personal capacity and integrity into their work. The results of the work are visible in everyday life and talk about their work and dedication and that is what citizens see and feel every day when they come into any institution of the system, including the judicial one, to solve their problem or to seek the protection of any of their rights or laws. Therefore, they are an infallible criterion of the work and relations of the judicial authorities towards themselves, according to society, state and their rights and needs. Not rarely is the effort recognised in international recognitions, and so to say, in 2012, the prosecutor who is today a candidate for the republican public prosecutor, received from the justice ministry, the US Supreme Prosecutor, recognition for the way the Serbian Public Prosecutor's Office has responded to many difficult challenges in the fight against organised crime and corruption, war crimes, etc. which may be an example to all countries in the region. Despite all the challenges, the uncompromising fight against all forms of crime and corruption must continue, and we must participate in this work together. The rule of law, one of the main objections in the past reports of the European Commission, about Serbia's progress on meeting EU membership conditions, and that's what you ministers explained in detail when we talked here about a proposal for constitutional change, taking full responsibility for the situation in the judiciary and the need for its promotion, and for the benefit of all citizens and society as a whole. Finally, I would personally like to have had today perhaps at least two candidates to discuss. At the same time, I understand every prosecutor and his right to run or not, for such an important function. What I often do not understand, and not only when it comes to the choice of prosecutors, but also in some other cases, is the hypocrisy of those who in their careers and their esnafi were often the only candidates for the election of the president of organisations or of the Esnaf associations, etc. I, in politics and in my personal life, advocate the principle of equal opportunities, equality and the same standards and archaics, regardless of personal animosities and sympathy, and that is ultimately the principle of SDPS, and for us it is important first whether, in this and in any other case, the choice is formally legal, all in accordance with the law and procedures or not. In this particular case it is and there is no doubt about us, because we respect facts, not conclusions based on valuable courts and personal perception of reality. That is why in the day of the vote, we will support the election of Zagorka Dolovac, as the seat of the republican public prosecutor, in the faith that it will justify the trust shown by its work. It's been a long time for me, and I thank the chairman for letting me finish my presentation until the end. I could have assumed that there would be no time to talk about amendments to the Law on Judges, and in any case, that law will support the SDPS parliamentary group, in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8500	Thank you. Next is counterpart Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8501	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, a respected ministerial officer with fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the strategic definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia and of our country, certainly is EU membership. This is what our strategic definition implies, of course, by adapting the legislative framework, with recommendations and EU legislation. And, not only that, we do not agree our legislation just for the sake of EU membership, we agree our legislation to be faster, more efficient, more responsible, more professional than citizens and businesses. A quick, efficient and responsible judiciary means a improvement for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, but a improvement for business entities, for creating a favourable economic environment, for new investments, for new salaries, for new pensions. What I would also point out is that in 2012, when the Serbian Progressive Party took over one of the strategic definitions, almost the number one definition was a determined fight against crime and corruption and zero tolerance to crime and corruption. This has not been abandoned all these years, so the plan "Serbia 2020 – 2025" presented by the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, who has accepted the government, of the six objectives set as priorities, is one of the goals of a decisive fight against the mafia and corruption. No one before Alexander Vukic felt the need to map as one of the ways in which Serbia must fight, because the mafia and corruption as a cancer of wounds, destroy and destroy every society, and thus destroy both the better life and the quality of life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Since the policy of the parliamentary group is Alexander Vukic – For our children and president of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, the struggle daily for a better quality of life, for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, will certainly be in favour of these legal definitions. I must point out that the Ministry of the Interior, in co-operation with the BIA, in co-operation with the D.A.'s office, has given one of the decisive blows to the criminal mob group, Veljko Belivuk. That mob group, those bloodsuckers who slaughtered other people in one impressive way at the same time, in several different locations, they were all arrested. Those who have been found have been imprisoned, each of them is a place among the bars. We expect that the competent state authorities, in accordance with the law, and here I think of the Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, will make adequate judgments, or judgments based on facts. What we saw on television a few days ago is really scary, it's really scary, what this group of bloodlocks were doing, but I have to point out that this is and how significant it is, because citizens need to know what kind of group, the mob group, what kind of slaughter clan our country was facing. Thanks to courage and determination to give support to all state authorities, to do their job in accordance with the law and to deal with mafia and crime, which is primarily the support of Alexander Vukic, with the struggle and how it began. Yellow robbers and tycoons, depicted in character and in the Sundays of Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, during a judicial reform that was carried out in 2009, when thousands of judges and prosecutors left without a job, without any reason, damaged Serbian citizens by 45m euros. Not only that, they lied, then Minister of Justice Snezana Malovic and the President of the Republic, of course, at the time Boris Tadic, that these were reforms that were necessary and that would contribute to the judicial improvement. I must point out that after these reforms, Serbia has returned to 22 places, we were the last in Europe, only we were in front of some African countries. The European Union, which marked Serbia as the most corrupt country where corruption is systemically and where corruption has been supported since then by the yellow tycoon authorities headed by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and others, also pointed to the disastrous reform of the judiciary. Except that they've been cutting down judges, they've had 24 controversial robbery privatisations where over 400 workers have been left out of work. In their time, there was also a "Sabbe" action following the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. In the "Sabbe" action, 11665 people were detained, with a small number of those convicted, and all those detained in custody or in prison, sued the state for damages. Of course, it was neither Dragan Gilas nor Vuk Jeremic, the yellow tycoon octopus was absolutely interested, because all that compensation was actually paid by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have to point out that this time has changed a lot in the judiciary in general. First, I would like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has invested large funds to improve infrastructure facilities since 2014, not only in Belgrade, where the Palace of Justice was completely reconstructed, one of the temples of justice built in the 1970s, but also reconstructed and built many other courts throughout Serbia. That's how the first building came out in Raška after 40 years, and that's actually the Raska Criminal Court. I also have to point out when it comes to prisons, built a prison in Pancheva by the highest European standards, and prisons are also being built in Kragujevac and I have to highlight the construction of the Palace of Justice in Kragujevac, which will unite 11 judicial institutions. In addition to infrastructure projects, I want to highlight a series of laws that have been passed to prevent and combat crime and corruption. One of these laws also refers to the Law on jurisdiction and the organisation of state authorities in countering crime, terrorism and corruption, where special anti-corruption departments have been established in senior courts. I have to point out that last year they had 2,000 cases, that 973 charges were filed, and 673 people were convicted. In this corruption prevention department and how important is the financial investigation, i.e. the monitoring of money flows. I must also point out that we also adopted the Law on the Origin of Assets, which is the primary objective of establishing the origin between income and real property. We expect not only us, but also Serbian citizens, that the competent state authorities, in accordance with this law, will explain how Dragan Gilas, at the time of the government's exercise, acquired 619m euros, as he obtained money in various accounts according to the world's destinations and, of course, how he acquired 35 apartments that are not measured in meters, but in hectares. We give full support to all competent institutions, and here I mean both the prosecution and the judiciary, in the fight against the mafia, against crime. Judges and prosecutors are independent, but they depend on the Constitution and the law. Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, is fighting for peace and security policy, but also a policy of security and security for every citizen and policy of Serbia's economic progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8502	Thank you. Next is MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8503	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not so sure we're gonna deal with mob and crime. Our wish as a legislator, as a representative home, is that we must oppose crime as harshly as possible. That desire exists also with the executive authority. The legislative and executive authority has a strong desire to put an end to crime, that crime no longer put an end to honesty and not try to put an end to the state. I'm not sure they're for this kind of justice. We can deal with mob and crime. It is not possible to implement reforms with people who have prevented reforms. Our judiciary is the worst part of the government. Our people think we run the judiciary and we can make them judge fair, faster, fair and so forth. We can't do that. Everyone's talking about the pressure of politics on the judiciary. I used to conduct surveys of the judges themselves, who said only 5% of the judiciary is influenced by politics and ministers, and that 57% of the bad in the judiciary is because of the staff. Right, Mr. Martinovic? That's what the judges said. Now, you have to trust judges who themselves say that the judiciary is bad mostly because of bad personnel and secondly, for corruption. Now we have to believe that with that judiciary we'll be able to deal with crime 100%. With great effort, we can contain crime with this kind of justice. These laws seem to make judges even more immeasurable, it's harder to replace them. The pressure of the judges on politics is far greater than the pressure of politics on the judiciary. Judge Majic is the best evidence. Judge Majic seems to want to order in the Assembly of Laws. Imagine the judiciary and the country in which Judge Majic is the judge? Such a country, except for Serbia, does not exist. Could such a judge be a member of an independent judiciary? There is no such thing in the world, only in Serbia. That's what I'm saying and not just me. Hard and Supreme Cassation Court. Judge Majic and Hadzhi Omerovic's verdict The Supreme Cassation Court assessed it as illegal, and since it was not at the expense of the defendants, the Gjilan group, who brutally killed over 80 Serbs and tortured over 200, since it was not to the detriment of the accused, the defendants, the trial was not repeated. I think it was a game between the D.A. and the D.A.'s office. The prosecutor's office has asked after such a verdict and the release of Albanian terrorists, based on the Court of Appeal's ruling by Majic and Hadji Omerovic, I think it was a game, that the prosecutor then initiates the procedure for the Albanians to be released and the verdict declared illegal. If the verdict was found illegal, there was a violation of the law by the judge, in my opinion. I don't know what the other MPs think. If the verdict is in such a difficult case, where the group has been sentenced to 106 or 110 years in prison, it was annulled by Judge Majic's appeal ruling. Later, the verdict by Majic was declared illegal. So, in an illegal way, all the terrorists who killed, tortured and so on, who cut off women's breasts and threw them at the fire. That group is freed. What kind of justice is this, and what is this High Judiciary Council? What kind of authorities in the judiciary have allowed Judge Majic to remain a judge? In my opinion, professionally, if he made such a mistake in one group of terrorists, there is no country that would let him continue to be a judge, and he shares more political pucks with us, so he talks about what laws are proposed. He probably doesn't like them. We should pass laws that are at the will of Judge Majic and his family gathered around his CEPRIS association. So, we should please them and have them order the law and we make such a law as they do for individuals, and there are a lot of such individuals, certain lawyers order a verdict. In his CEPRIS, there are both prosecutors, lawyers and judges. They're often found... Sometimes they find themselves, not to say often, and those who are in the same case. Let's say these lawyers were Beljanski, etc. So, the case is with that judge, along with everyone at CEPRIS, and we can expect the verdict that Judge Majic ordered. The pressure of the court on politics, politicians and the National Assembly is far greater than the pressure of the National Assembly and the executive authority on the judiciary. The independent judiciary is independent of this authority. That's for sure. I'm allowed to bet my life. The judiciary is independent of this authority, but it's not from the former. In India to gather those judges, you will make the largest DS board a relatively large number of residents. Mr. Martinovic, it's not exactly a smile, but it's a fact, it's true, you know that. So they all came with a directive by Natasha Kandic and DS. They were all assigned after this distribution to the Indjia judicial unit. Do you know if anyone was investigating that because of the decision of these judges and the order of the verdict from a lawyer who only gets a conviction in the Indji court unit? He can't get any further because he's an expert on justice in India. An expert. Maybe he's a correspondence member of that board of theirs, I'm not sure. I don't know what he was texting. It's kind of weird. It's kind of weird. Do you know that a man burned himself for a verdict? He burned himself alive because of a verdict made in the Indji court unit. He burned himself in the yard of a lawyer who was a lawyer to the opposing party in a lawsuit he lost. He probably had so many cheeks, but he couldn't bear the injustice because that lawyer in that lawsuit was his lawyer before, so he moved on to the opposing side. That's fine. It's almost unbelievable. As a lawyer on the one hand can move on to the other, that in the Indjia court unit can't explain. The man couldn't stand it anywhere near the court, next to the lawyer's office, in the yard, and the law firm burned down, and now we want to fight crime and the mob with these judges? I'm afraid it won't work. I'm asking you what kind of independent justice is in which marines are free to walk? Did she do any damage to the Dedicated Industry? I say it is. Did someone question this because it damaged the state of Serbia and the "mental industry", because the contract "purpose industry" lost due to it? It was received by Bulgaria who gave the information. Did anyone question that? Has anyone questioned the Jagodina affair? If what she claims is true, I don't mind a politician going to jail. But if it's not true, I ask - why didn't anyone listen seriously to Marinik, but she said - I'll tell you if you offer protection for people I won't tell you who they are? Look, he's looking for protection for people they won't tell who they are. If you offer protection for NN faces, then I'll tell you who the NN faces are. What kind of conditioning is that? What kind of prosecution is that, then, and what kind of justice is that? Let's ask – what kind of judiciary is that when a public official joins a public office with a private business and earns 619m euros, not 619m euros, would we be chased by 619m euros, but 619m euros? How is this information invisible to our judiciary? Do you think that this is an independent judiciary from the former government when it has not seen an ex-officer who has helped many judges find themselves in these functions and has not been prosecuted? No one's chasing him. He still presents himself as a political victim, as a victim of persecution, etc., so he bought one there or obtained a political party that was formerly a Green Party, etc., and now suddenly a political opponent, was bought by an MP group and now he is a political opponent, and as now untouchable to the judiciary etc. There's no country where a public official, remember Germany, was Cole under investigation and seriously investigated? Find me some organized state that's a public function, he put it together with just an election campaign or something. Find me a country where a public official can earn while he's in public office, owns the media, owns all the commercials, every second, opens the door in RTS, etc. Find me somewhere. Tito didn't do it. Tito didn't sell for seconds. So Tito only put the gold in his register in the King's possession, but he didn't sell seconds to Radio TV Belgrade, Radio Television Yugoslavia, etc., as it was called. But this one has surpassed everything possible, 619m euros in income by joining a public function with a private business and no one at all. Now he's still threatening some, like rematchism, he's gonna do that to us, and that, and then we're cattle, we're scum, I don't know what they're not anymore, so they're gonna chase us, and they're gonna shoot us, and they're gonna hang us, so the other guy says don't hang them on the Terrace, they're gonna hang us with patriots. I ask: Who was responsible for all these threats? If someone looks at them very hard, it immediately opens an investigation, reacts to the judiciary, and I am not against it, but if this applies to our side, the darkest threats, insults, etc., from the President of the Republic to some MPs who have the strength to oppose Gilas's way of political action. Threats come every day, threatened by some professors. Was Danica Popovic punished for counterfeiting, I ask? The one from the Faculty of Economics, who signed over the work of the late colleague, and now everyone has found it, and has adopted several million for this translation work. Has she ever responded? No, I don't. So my message, to end, is that we have to take a little more care of the judiciary, when we give them total independence and total indifference, without any possibility of affecting them in any way, we will create independent trades. Our judicial units and our basic courts, especially in the interior, will become independent trades that will join into a shopping mall filled with such independent trades. The judiciary must not be completely independent. He's not divinely independent. It must depend on both the people and the law. It must protect the innocent and punish the guilty. The message is that whoever does not punish evil, he does this new evil. And it seems to me that a large number of judges, for me a large number, may be 10%, 15%, when tried by some criminals with a small amount of time to judge those who are greater than them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8504	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8505	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Minister with Associates, the Honorable members of the High Council of the judiciary, of course I would be very happy to vote for the reelection of Prosecutor Dolovac. I'll point and I'll pick up where my colleagues left off. There were great discussions today. They pointed out from different perspectives to different issues that are closely related to these points of the agenda. I'll say that the job of the judiciary, and also the business of legal science, is to prevent the abuse of the legal concept of genocide. So, the judiciary, among other things, must protect the state from false charges of genocide and, of course, take account of both the Minister of Justice and the VSS and the Presidents of the Courts and the Republic Public Prosecutors and the Prosecutors and the State Summit, because the consequences of not facing this campaign by country can be multiplely difficult, negative. Against Serbia these months, surely in this year, one is run by an organized one, and I would call it so-called. A genocide campaign in the region, involving the authorities of Pristina, the Federation of BiH, Montenegro, as well as auto-skillers in Serbia, the Marinika and Gilas free robbery party and these two individually. The latest example of the genocide campaign is Kurti's performance in Brussels and his hallucination of three Serb genocides against Albanians. So no Serb genocide against Albanians has ever happened in history. Simply, I would single out Kurti's mindless claim, quote him, he says – Serbia came to Kosovo genocide and left Kosovo genocide. I mean, it's scary, mindless, amazing and hollow-headed. I would remind, Serbs came to the Balkans, therefore, to Kosovo and Metohija peacefully, to the villages of the people in the sixth century, when Albanians did not exist at all in the Balkans, but the first historical sources mentioned them only in the 11th century. So, Serbs moved peacefully to Kosovo and Metohija, and two-thirds of Serbs, now another thing, was ethnically cleaned in 1999, now talking about leaving, under the threat of death and pogroms that Albanians committed five years later, or 17/04. So Serbs were partially ethnically cleared from Kosovo and Metohija under NATO bombs and under the threat of genocide. So much for the Serbs from Kosovo leaving by committing the last, as Kurti says, genocide. No, genocide was committed against Serbs and the largest ethnic cleansing after the one in "Storm". It's a classic replacement thesis by Kurti. To remind me, Kurti was sentenced to justice in Serbia for terrorism for 15 years, of which he served less than two, because he was disgracefully pardoned for his opposition to real and morals. Kurt and Murta both dare to deceive the public about the Serb genocide against Albanians. Albanians and Turks, all serious historians talk about it, committed genocide against Serbs in the 18th and 19th centuries, and demographics also testify. Let us remember, in 1455, according to the Turkish defter, it is described that the Serbs are in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. In the countries of Brankovic, where a list of howlers was made, Serbs were 98%, Albanians were 1%. And according to estimates from 2019, the Serbs in Kosovo now have 8% and Albanians almost 90%. And so Serbs from the convincing majority in the 15th century were 98% in 556 years reduced to a convincing minority of 8%, and Albanians jumped from 1% to 90%. To add what I've already said, and then the Albanians partially ethnically cleaned up KIM in 1999 and 2004, let's not forget. And then who put who in danger? Serbs, victims of genocide and ethnic cleansing, were in no way able to threaten Albanians, who, we recall, were first protected by the Turks for 500 years, then protected by the Albanians by Austro-Hungarians, then protected by German and Italian fascists and back in 22 years by the Albanians of the NATO Pact. That's what this demographic I mentioned is about. Kurti wants the world to believe that Serbs, who were 90% missing from KIM, who were victims of genocide and the pogroms of Turks and Albanians, could have threatened the growing Albanians who had powerful protectors over 550 years. I mean, if it wasn't tragic, it would be funny. Abuse of the expression genocide leads to the compromising and devaluation of the scientific and legal meaning of the concept of genocide and hyperinflation of various false genocides. It leads to the unthinking idea of genocide. If they were to accept the nadiad Muslim, Albanian, Montenegrin and Serbian standards of genocide, then any major crime in any conflict on the planet could be declared genocide, which would completely dissipate the concept of genocide and prevent the prevention and punishment of it. One of the most famous people in Serbia who promotes radical views on genocide is Marinika Tepic, deputy president of the Gilas Free Robbery Party. It is known for its unilateral condemnation, exclusively for it, by Serbian parties in conflicts in Croatia, BiH and KIM, but has never condemned any crime against Serbs or genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma in Ustasha NDH. Marinika Tepic submitted to the Assembly this year a motion for a resolution on the Srebrenica genocide that branded the Serb people as genocide, and just today, a large report by the Independent Commission, published on 1,000 pages, established by Republika Srpska, where prominent scientists found no genocide in Srebrenica was available. To go back to Mrs. Marinic Tepic Ciobano Zhivac. She's also famous for that, and that's the subject of this again, which haunts, harasses and stalks D.O.D. Dolovac, trying to scare her. Marinika Tepic persecuted Prosecutor Dolovac on 30 August 2012 and illegally filmed it. Marinika Tepic filed a false criminal complaint against Prosecutor Dolovac in October 2020 and December with false charges, and continued to prosecute and exert illegal pressure on the prosecutor. The same was done by Mrs Tepic on 21 April 2021 by pressuring the prosecutor to act against the law and in a way that corresponds to Tepic's. Also, on February 5th, Marinika Tepic again pressed and filed false reports when she handed over paper waste to the prosecution, alleged evidence of the "Krusik" she represented, as told by counterpart Marijan, the interests of the Romanian and Bulgarian dedicated industries. In how long and over what time Mrs. Zhivci Cioban was persecuting the prosecutor and making illegal pressure on her, a statement by Marinika Cioban Zhivc a few days ago. In Valjev on July 15th 2021, Ms. Marinika said - I am hundreds of kilograms and a box of materials from “Kruška”, “Aseka”, a trade in arms, parties, brothers, various combinations carried on the feet of Zagorki Dolovac. A very careless statement, because what is she talking about? He's talking about Marinika Tepic, the D.A.'s D.A. Dolovac, taking her home and taking her to work and handing her hundreds of kilos of various materials, burying her, just to have an alibi, like, for God's sake, I'm carrying the prosecution's evidence, and what else does she testify about? Witnessing that Gilas and Marinika had been organised for at least two years by the D.A. Dolovac, because they hired a couple of people to follow her, so when a convenient moment came, they informed Marinika, and then, as a coincidence, they ran into Prosecutor Dolovac and all five or six times. How is that possible? I'm going to ask the question - why did Marinika Prosecutor Dolovac, when she delivered all this to her, not carry materials about how Marinika's boss robbed Belgrade, RTS and Serbia and never took to Prosecutor Dolovac evidence of Gilas' illegal business with the "Multicom Group" in which Marinika happens to work just for big money? It's not that Marinika became Gilas' accomplice, is it? I don't want to believe that. Marinika, we are aware of this, is constantly supporting the media of alleged alarmers. Here, alone, she can become the top insider and alarm girl to expose Gilas's machinations. It's about, as we can see, double standards. Gilas and Marinika, I said, and some prosecutor needs to deal with it, not Mrs. Dolovac. How and which faces are they following the D.A. Dolovac? So, Prosecutor Dolac is harassed at home and in her spare time, and the videos that Mrs. Tepic publishes testify about, and as in her spare time, D.A. Dolovac is persecuting her, she wants to give her hundreds of pounds of some paper and ask her some unsuspecting questions. It is known, in this country at least, how civilized and decent people communicate with competent authorities, and especially with the Republic Public Prosecutor. It is known – through the office and letters containing some excessive facts and evidence, not by persecuting the prosecutor. The marines are running after her, following her and trying to deliver some kind of junk. Marinika Tepic is persecuting a woman, a prosecutor who is doing an excellent job, while Marinika Tepic praises former Romanian chief prosecutor Laura Kruduc Keveshi, who is otherwise, and Marinika never says, in 2018, she was replaced by a series of abuses of official position and violations of the law. This case shows that Marinika Cioban is representing the interests of another country, not Serbia. In addition to Romania's interest, Marinika Tepic, Ciobano Zhivac, represents the interests of Pristina authorities, and I will discuss this later. Marinika Tepic is obviously used to humiliating prosecutors and judges such as in 2009 and 2010 when at the time of Đilas, just Tepicka, Jeremic and Tadic, everything was at a humiliating level, and in the humiliation of institutions Đilas, Marinika, Jeremic and Tadic were the furthest distanced when the judiciary was humiliated, and Serbia is today, and we must say, unlike that time, both politely and civilised, and just society. Now let's come up with something that the judiciary deals with and successfully deals with. Judges, prosecutors and police are doing well in the fight against crime, as best seen in the case of criminal, mafia and terrorist clan Belivuk Zvicer. The judiciary should also know these things, which are political matters, that the Belivuk Zvicer clan until the other day had a spokesman, Vladimir Vuletic, who, otherwise, founded the party "Black on White" for the needs of cannibals and butchers. But the other day, the Belivuk Zvicer clan also received another portfolio. spokeswoman Marinika Tepic, only one day after the interior minister published earthquake photographs of clan victims. This new spokesman for the Marinika Tepic clan reported and immediately attacked the minister and announced embarrassing statements on social networks and on the SSP networks. Otherwise, as a commanding officer, this indisputable move by Minister Vulin has condemned all the Gilasov parties and the media, and this Marinika, the same people who were once in some other media, but the same people, both of them, have, in time, welcomed the publication of explicit photographs of killed members of the Zemun clan, murders in Srebrenica, films recorded in Srebrenica and the remains of Batajnica, and that on public services. They're double standards again. It was good then, and today when the state shows how to fight successfully and how it shows what terrible crimes, but in an acceptable way, have been committed, I think it shows in an acceptable way what crimes have been committed, then it suddenly becomes controversial. Why is it getting so controversial? Let me explain once again to whoever needs it, apparently to Mrs. Cioban Zhivac Tepic, why Minister Vulin's move is undeniable. He's indisputable because he's part of the fight against the Belivuk and Zvicer mafia clan. The clan is also waging a propaganda war against the state. A lot of people don't believe the clan butchered and slaughtered people. Now that Minister Vulin is and certain media have shown only a small and relaxed part of the terrible evidence, now people probably believe more. And part of the fight against the mafia is a propaganda fight, because the slaughter clan has its own political and media wing, has great support in the media. And when the state shows in an acceptable manner what kind of criminals are involved and how it has evidence against the slaughterers, it is then attacked by media and political representatives of the mafia. There is, and we need to know, at least two parties representing the clan. And with their attack on the minister, instead of praising him, the Gilasov parties and the media have again sided with the murderous mob clan Belivuk Zvicer. And Marinika, instead of a shred of compassion and empathy towards the victims of the butchers, butchers and cannibals, the spokesman of the Marinika clan, Cioban Zhivac, issued a statement that sided with the Belivuk clan, and this slaughterer, the main one, the Tepa - Vela. Only he doesn't say - my will. And he calls the slaughter fans and praises their running against the president. The marines replaces the thesis, simply turning the victims into the guilty and the executioners into the victims. And instead of condemning crimes, she praises them. And instead of commending the judiciary and the police, she satanicizes them. Here's a sentence that's the most embarrassing thing I've ever read. In his statement, the marines said that evidence of the crimes is a lie and that she and Gilas and the SAA are quoted as saying, "They don't pay attention to those lies, except for humor." So for Marinika and Gilas, evidence of butchering lies, to which humor should be responded. Why doesn't Marinika tell the families of the victims? We can conclude that Marinika took that ironic proposal seriously to change the dealer. So earlier, she replaced her decades-old co-worker, Filipovic, with Belivuk. Now there's another dealer and sponsor. I remind the judges and prosecutors that Marinika's former drug dealer is in front of the authorities, but also in public, testified that he received a million dinars from Marinika Tepic while she was the province's secretary against the law. I'm asking the judiciary to respond. As you can see, there are two things here - Kurti and Marinika are on the same mission. Both accuse Serbia of genocide that Serbia did not commit. Both Kurti and Marinika committed a series of crimes. I said, Kurti has already been convicted for 15 years in Serbia, however, in the last ten years he has been convicted twice in both Kosovo and Metohija. Both Kurti and Marinika have direct ties to criminals. Both Kurti and Marinika ask Serbia to face the past by acknowledging non-existent genocides. And that's part of this campaign I was talking about. And Marinika and Gilas' free robbery party represents Kurti here in Serbia, and that's what the Gilas media do every day, which promote Kurti's politics. And I end up with this -- the geopolitical objectives of the genocide charges and all these floods of resolutions and contagion of the genocide resolution are multiple. The aim is to weaken significantly strengthened Serbia, strengthened under President Vukic, to mark the uplifted Serbia, which took off even in the last six months under an epidemic, to undo all the positive image Serbia has acquired during the epidemic and course of vaccination, but also for the past nine years, the successful power of statesman Vukic. And the goal, of course, is to abolish the Republic of Serbia. The aim of the campaign on Serbia's stamping for alleged genocide is also to weaken Serbia's negotiating position on the KIM negotiations. And once again for the end to remind me, Albanians committed genocide against Serbs in the 18th and 19th centuries. In both world wars, they fought on the side of evil. They killed Serbs in 1999 and 1998. They killed a thousand Serbs by taking their organs in 1999 and 2000. They have killed Serbian children in Gorazdevec since 2004. They committed a coup on March 17th 2004, and then ethically cleaned up part of KIM and killed many Serbs as well. If they could, Albanian authorities, these now, Kurtiev, would kill these 95,000 Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, but they can't. Why can't they? They must not because President Vukic made Serbia strong and elevated economically and militaryly. Thank you, Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8506	Thank you, Mr. Copper. The word has the People's MP Ilija Matejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8507	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Minister with an associate, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, and what I say is always most important to me - for the peoples of the Republic of Serbia, we have two proposals on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges and on the High Council of the judiciary and my humble opinion is that these laws are in line with the principle of judicial continuity and independence that the Republic of Serbia respects. Under these amendments and additions to the law, it is prescribed that one judge is irreplaceable, that he is permanent at his post, unless he commits a serious disciplinary offense or commits a criminal offence, which is in line with European principles, but is also in line with the European path that Serbia is currently on. I would remind our people that we have also begun the process of changing the work of the Constitution regarding the independence of judges, that is, the way of their election, and we want that choice to be independent of the National Assembly and thus increase the independence of our judiciary, although in the media we often hear the opposite, as we attack judges in the National Assembly, we influence them. We actually do it differently, and we show it by works, not by words. As for the proposed candidates for the presidents of the courts, tomorrow is the vote, so we'll see which one we choose. What is evident is that the High Council of the Judiciary has proposed candidates who have all graduated from the state college, which I must commend. I have to say that we as a state must enable students, not just future judges, but all students who have graduated from the state colleges, especially those who have been in the budget, to stay after college to live in Serbia, to work here, to fight for their future, because in this way they return to the state for what they have studied about the cost of state and state benefits from themselves, or from their knowledge, and of course they themselves. All proposed candidates have also passed a judicial exam within two, three years of graduation, which is the shortest possible deadline and it is indeed commendable. Dear Minister, I would really like to see our students in the future have a judicial exam if we could at least make it a little easier. Why? That's where you get this amount of books, you know you passed it yourself, and a lot of that material is completely useless in practice, and it's very hard to learn. In my view, this is an unnecessary obstacle to success in the lives of our future judges and lawyers and lawyers and public notebooks, etc. And I'd like to make it easier for our students. I'm sure it would mean a lot to them. To the judges who will be elected tomorrow, I include the Republic Public Prosecutor, Zagorko Dolovac, I really want a lot of happiness in further work, and I'm sure they won't need luck because they're all experienced candidates with many years of work experience. Since we're choosing the Republic Public Prosecutor, I'd like to discuss two crimes. First offense is tax evasion. We, as a state, have implemented a reform of the tax administration. This has filled our budget and made it possible for us to have some investments all over Serbia. This crime is unfortunately very widespread in Serbia. You know, I love our people very much, I love all the nationalities that live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but we have a strange mentality that's about like this – do you want everything taken care of with the doctor, have all the medications and equipment – I want, do you want to have a clear path – I want, do you want to have a fixed park – I want to, and do you want to pay the tax – so, of course, I don't want to, I don't care if I pay the tax. There are only two things you have to do in life, which is to pay taxes and die. We have to work to catch the perpetrators of this crime, especially those tycoons who do so, and thus increase the revenues in our budget, and then from our budget to give that money directly to our citizens. The second crime I'd like to talk about is too broadly defined for me. It's an influence trade. In our law, it consists of receiving a prize or any other benefit in order to intervene or not perform any official action, where only mediation should be achieved by using its official or social position or real or assumed influence. Now, look how far that's defined. Turns out we've all done this crime before in our lives. To explain it in a simple Serbian language – if I, as a national MP, were to call some director of a municipal enterprise and ask him – please don't, please, shut down that woman's water, she's sick, she doesn't have a large pension, she can't pay her bills, and he listens to me, it turns out that I did a crime of trade by influence even though I did a good deed. So we have to narrow down the definition of that crime. Speaking of these crimes, I would also like to mention what my esteemed colleague has already mentioned, which is genocide, a crime of genocide that has been thrown away in our environment lately, so much so that it has completely lost its meaning. We saw Monday at the Brussels negotiations that our delegation had left with the best intention of having some dialogue. God regrets even the money for the tickets, for the road they've given, because the Pristina delegation doesn't want any dialogue at all, they just want to get away with it, that there's a conflict, because that seems to be their goal. We've been accused of three genocides against Albanians, which is completely false. So I'm asking a logical and normal question -- how is it that Serbs were doing genocide everywhere, and only Serbs are gone? Isn't genocide when you banish 200,000 Serbs from Kosovo's territory? Didn't genocide happen in Jasenovac? Isn't it genocide when you banish 250,000 Serbs from Croatia? So, unfortunately, some of our MPs went and made a meeting, these are MPs of the parliamentary opposition, not to mention their names, who made a meeting no less than they did with Albin Kurti. I've talked about it already for this speaker, how there must be a red line in our policy that no one can cross. It's okay for the government and the opposition to fight each other, but we must never fight our country, we must not work against our country, but well, these principles obviously do not apply to some of us. I'd say most of our opposition, unfortunately. The same MPs also submitted a resolution on the Srebrenica genocide that we are supposed to adopt, which we are not going to do. Unfortunately, the same resolution you saw brought our brother Montenegro. I would make it clear from this speaker that the peoples of Serbia-Montenegro still have to continue to respect themselves and have to continue to cooperate, and as far as their politicians are concerned, I would not waste my words on them, they have shamed, they have betrayed those people who have actually brought them to power on the wings of lithium. You will see, dear people, that these resolutions on the Srebrenica genocide will only be prescribed from word to word. The goal of all of this is not a bit naive. Namely, they want to create a legal basis for abolishing Republika Srpska, and I want to send them a short, but clear message – there are some other countries here besides Serbia, there are those of us who love our flag, there are those of us who love our anthem and we are ready to fight for this country, so that behind us, something remains behind our mandate for this country. As long as there are such people in Serbia, both young and old, you can only dream of destroying Serbia and abolishing Republika Srpska. Long live Serbia! Long live Republika Srpska!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8508	Thank you. The word is "Andrian Avramov." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8509	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, respected minister and associates, respected fellow MPs, today's draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Judges and Supplements to the VSS Act, as well as decisions on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor and President of the Courts are very important, primarily because of Serbian and Serbian citizens in general. These proposed amendments achieve European standards, ensure better respect for the rule of law, provide an independent and impartial judiciary. All of these are our obligations in line with the start of the European integration process, above all I mean the recently opened Cluster 1 in which basic rights and justice are located. The opinion of GREC, or a group of countries against corruption, to prevent corruption and the Council of Europe on the fight against corruption, is that Serbia has made progress, that Serbia is no longer on the list of globally unsatisfactory countries when it comes to fighting corruption and that it has met most of the recommendations of GREC concerning preventing corruption among MPs, judges and prosecutors. The latest 2020 report states that nearly 70% of recommendations related to MPs have been met when it comes to preventing corruption, if more than 80% of judges and prosecutors. This confirms that Serbia has made visible progress. Since 1 March 2018, the state of Serbia has started implementing the Law on the Organisation of Authority Jurisdiction, when it comes to the repression of organised crime, terrorism and corruption, on the basis of which four regional anti-corruption centres were established in senior courts and public prosecutors in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. Thanks to the application of this law, hundreds of judicial decisions have been made for corrupting crimes, and among those prosecuted are high-ranking officials, municipal presidents, and judges as well. What is important is to note that the party's book will no longer protect anyone in Serbia, and even senior officials of ruling parties are not excluded from justice. It is clear that there is a commitment of the Serbian state to seriously tackle the fight against corruption, which is also witnessed by the adoption of the Property Origin Act. That law is also in line with GRECO recommendations and constitutes a roof anti-corruption regulation. Serbian citizens know well how the previous regime has implemented the catastrophic reform of the judiciary that we all suffer today. In contrast, we have continued the process of comprehensive reforms in the country, including through judicial reform to ensure legal certainty for all our citizens, as well as to allow the arrival of foreign companies, investors and greater economic stability of the country. We face a number of challenges when it comes to restoring the confidence of Serbian citizens in our judicial system, and we certainly need to keep that in mind and, of course, that the judicial system works better on this issue. I expect the candidates who gain our trust in the day of voting to do their job in a safe and responsible manner, respecting the Constitution and the laws of our country. I also want to believe that elected candidates will work in the interest of satisfying the justice of all Serbian citizens, respecting the country's laws that they will do their job in a professional and impartial manner. The judiciary must remain the third independent branch of power, without political influence and pressure, because that is what every democratically-oriented country and its judicial system are based on, and above all I mean the principle of dividing power into judicial, legislative and executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8510	Thank you. The word is Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8511	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, today I am somewhat proud, not only today, but also, when I listen to my distinguished colleagues, Mr Atlagic, who moved me. A man who is a great patriot, a man who can lift this hall to his feet, a man who survived all sorts of things, a man whose head was blackmailed, a man who was when the most difficult was in the Parliament of the Croatian Parliament. Professor Atlagic, good for you. Sometimes when you mention Serbs and the Serbian people, head down, you can't. That's enough, head up. I'm listening to my esteemed colleague Bakarec who also touched me with his exposure, who has the guts, who has the desire and will after so many years to say what he thinks. The Serbs are a genocidal people – they have never been, nor will they be. Shame on anyone who says that. Our president went to bow down to the haystacks, the victims. There were casualties on both sides. Once and for all, do you know what genocide means? Extermination of a nation. How, then, is it possible that Serbs and Muslims live in Srebrenica and consider themselves Serbian president? Any, it didn't happen again. There were casualties on both sides. Gonocid is an extermination. Then what's Jasenovac? When I talk about it, I'm sick of it, and I've gone completely the other way, because I have to give credit to these wonderful people who just live for this Serbia and give us wings. That's what we need to talk about. I'll also talk about Mrs. Dolovac, but I must, I must, must come out of me, first to congratulate Kurban-Bajram all the citizens of Serbia of the Islamic religion, to celebrate him in peace, to celebrate him with love, these are our brothers, we all live here together. I share all people with good people and those who are not, and that is genocide, Kosovo. The genocide wasn't the point. I'm putting an end to genocide. The Serbs were never a genocide nation. The Serbs fought all their lives, they always had defensive wars and the Balkan War and World War I and World War II, and the wars of the 1990s killed two million people. How can we be a genocidal people? Not at all. We're a perilous people. Kosovo is the heart of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia has two provinces, northern Vojvodina and southern Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija are the center of spirituality. There's a Patriarchy, we've got more than a hundred monasteries and churches. They're talking about Albanians from Kosovo, there are Albanians living in Albania, these are called other names, that we are a genocidal nation. We never have been, nor will we be. They're on our territory, they have all the rights and more than that. They exiled us, the first time they bombed us in 1999, well, the great pogrom in 2004. This should be discussed, not an orchestrated attack on the president of the Republic, Croatia, Montenegro and BiH, just because Kosovo should be recognised. Well, that's Kosovo. Ours. Serbian Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo with a star, said some from the west. Kosovo and Metohija, the heart of Serbia. Can't a woman who was born there go to the store. Where are the human rights? They honor us for having the rule of law. Well, we got her. Here, we do everything alive, we bring in a new constitution, we do everything alive. We, and the least of our mistakes in history, my mom. I'm not saying we're innocent. We didn't. We're a good people, we're an intellectual people. Tesla is ours, Pupin is ours, Mileva Anstein is ours, Milanković is ours. All athletes, no less country, no more gold medals. That's what we need to talk about. Why is now an orchestrated attack on us. Because we're among the best in Europe, 58% is our GDP, and now what? We need to be finished, we need to be killed, we need to disappear from the face of the country, we need to give Kosovo, we need to give probably after, what should we give? This is our country, we live here. We are, we receive all the people in this world, but we will not give ours, for God's sake. Do this to do it. We do everything we're asked to do and yet another thing, and another thing, and as long as it's something else. While these people are in this House, first of all, we're all for the president and we're all gonna get up if we have to. It's a shame someone doesn't have a program, so then hit the president and his kids. Curse, curse, well, whoever does it, primitiveism. What a century this is. If you want to do something, do it by standing up and saying my programme for the next election that, that and that, well, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia vote. I guess it's normal and civilized all over the world. You asked us to lower the censorship, we did, from five to three, and you brought it when we were supposed to go to the election from three to five. Ettie, you've got everything you've been looking for that you've got. What's wrong now? We're a genocidal people now. We've never been a genocidal people. Never. Then you rephrase that into, like, a couple of individuals, not a whole nation. This is a wonderful people. Whoever comes to Serbia comes back 10, 50 times. Why? Because we're a good people. We can't wait to host people. A people full of empathy. Look what happened to the vaccines. We get vaccines and we share our brothers. We have to live in good relations with our neighbors. We signed Mini Schengen to connect economically. Well, I guess that's not good, everyone says good, but let the brothers come forward again. Why? Because he was signed by Alexander Wolf. They should take his hat off. They got vaccines all the people who wanted today. We have four kinds of vaccines, but it's small. If the vaccine costs 200 euros, they'd kill themselves here to receive vaccines, and since they're free and because someone's asking for vaccines, because it's a lot less damage when you take the vaccine than when you get sick, there's no way of knowing what vaccines are, the anti-vaxer program is working, we're gonna die. Oh, my people. Now I'm going back, this is what my emotions do, and I'm grateful to my speakers, because I've been encouraged by patriotism. As for Mrs. Dolovac's election, I absolutely don't mind. She was so respected at DOS and DS, you praised her so much. Here, now we have to pick a woman, all of a sudden nothing's wrong. How is that possible? Just because the SNS is re-elected. We don't choose people. We don't know anything. These are VSS proposals, specifically for her republican public prosecutors. So it doesn't matter. What about the Ethics Committee, the Ethics Code? Someone come forward. Why is it he's so indignant at the expense of this woman who's had the courage to stand up to crime and corruption? All of a sudden, it's no good. What my esteemed colleague said, so they didn't break out of the office and harass a woman, followed her like the police. All of a sudden, it's no good. Only those devastating policies should be remembered in 2008 and 2009 when the DOS company fired thousands of judges. That's what we paid for. The fact that they haven't worked 45m euros costs. They fired judges who were not loyal to the imagination, and the judiciary was independent. Judges of dignity and thank God they are, 95% does what they should, but there's always that percentage, the 5% who cheat, do what they want. I don't want to name them, I just said I wouldn't give them any more importance, but maybe I'll start with. For example, M.R. He'll recognize himself if he doesn't want what I'm gonna do to him. You remember how he used to remove objects. There's no object, an out-of-date object, to throw away the cleaners. Then this famous M.M. For firing the whole Gjilan group, that's what I've talked about five times. Then he says about raping a 13-year-old girl who stays pregnant, that it's folklore Roma. Shame on him. Then he also says that the killer, the child rapist, that his life sentence, just sent a life sentence, how, so it's not humane, and it's humane to rape and kill a child. So that's what he's got. I ask this ethical committee to deal with such a kind of judge, that we clear, not us, but you clear the ranks of such judges, because the judiciary is an independent state institution or at least as it should be. Now I'm just going to tax the amount of SNS she's done with her coalition partners for the good of the judiciary, for that devastated judiciary in terms of how it used to work and how it is now. I was on trial for the first time, and it took 12 years, along with the evidence, so it could have been over in two years. Okay, they say they've accumulated objects. When, from a hundred years ago? Now there are no more accumulations since we are networked, so if there are many items in Belgrade, they go to other parts of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure this judiciary will work much better and faster than it did. Now let's do a little bit of what's been done, for example. I don't just know if I have time for other colleagues, but I'm going to be taxing. A unique information counter has been renovated in the Violent Court in Zrenjanin. By 2012, Zrenjanin looked dreary, creepy, eye-fearing, dirty, overcrowded offices, no objects. With the help of the USAD and of course the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the court has been renovated and is now for the pride and Dick of the entire Zrenjanin. The mass of dishes has been renovated. The court in Arangelovac, a renovated, palace of justice in Kragujevac, is due to complete the most modern court that will contain 11 judicial institutions in one place, the renovated palace of justice, the Belgrade Criminal Court, in which there are 105 courts. There's a lot to be done, a lot's been built already. In Leskovec the five-story building of the basic court is completed. It was also one of the ruins. Just now, in February, the building of the Belgrade Criminal Court began to be renovated, which will be completed by the end of the year. That's how it's supposed to be done. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8512	Thank you. Last on the list registered for word, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Ackovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8513	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in today's debate on the draft law supplementing the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges has been quite spoken of. What I was supposed to say at first was said, and I'm going to say now. To all believers of the Muslim religion, including many of my people, I wish a happy holiday yesterday. Let them spend the next time and the next year in peace. In the follow-up to today's agenda, I would just like to mention, as all the almost taxing colleagues have spoken, something about the Ethics Committee, as the permanent working body of the High Council of the judiciary, whose powers are prescribed and adopted to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ethics Committee and the regulation of the obligation to produce a report on the work of the Ethics Committee of the High Council of the Judiciary and respect for the provisions of the Ethics Code. The ethical code respects all normal people, it seems to me at least, but we've had a chance to hear a lot of inethical talk these days with President Vukic in Brussels. Namely, Albin Kurti mentioned some genocides that I, who know history well, have never heard of. And what I haven't heard is no big deal, but the more serious and smarter people than me haven't heard anything about it, the more I'm worried about it. Where's that ethic? Where's the ethics of Albin Kurti saying thousands and thousands of Albanian women were raped, thousands were killed, etc? Did Albin Kurti and his predecessors Hashim Thaci and Haradinaj... Haradinaj killed the entire Roma wedding of 16 weddings just because they were on their way. That's what the data is, that's what it's written about, and all the witnesses were killed. There's been almost a trial in this case. Albin Kurti would have to know something else. That book he's talking about, it's Natasha Kandic's book. It also contains this data, that Alilay Nusret was killed on 20.5.1998, that's the first Roma to disappear, and then another 50 next names, and now I'm skipping here, so I don't burden you. I note that the first Roma to be killed in 1999 was Adem Delet, who was killed in 19.5.1999, and was later He was killed in 6.7.1999, number 42. Demirović Dzemila, 1.7.1999, Fazdir Agafur 3.7.1999, Hajer Abarem 25.3.1999, and so several hundred names. [[unheard]] This book I would like Mr. President to have with him, and when he finds someone so smart, he knows he's accusing the country of Serbia of genocide over the people, where there was never really a genocide, to show him. I just want to thank you all for today's debate and for listening to me as much as possible, because it's not the time or place to talk about these things right now. Thank you, gentlemen and gentlemen. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-21-0.u8514	I thank Professor Ackovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, do they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or someone who has not used his right under Article 96? Could the word perhaps be from the representatives of the motionors, the Government and the High Council? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 98, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint review of the proposals for acts referred to in points 1, 2, 7 and 8 of the agenda. I thank all those who took part in today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
