ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5811	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honored Vice-President, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, has addressed my question to the Ministry of Agriculture. It refers to the production of potatoes in our country. During the weekend, I visited agricultural holdings on the territory of the municipalities of Prepolje, Sjenica and Nova Varoshi where they reminded me of who knows which way to the difficult situation they are in. The question is - what will the Ministry do to help domestic potato manufacturers and other vegetables? How to reduce the damage they have suffered, and what is the plan not to do it again? It's a very difficult situation. Our farmers are now in the fields, largely farmed. However, I am afraid if, from the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, if we do not send a clear message to our farmers from the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, I am afraid that many fields will remain unruled and many agricultural holdings will be extinguished. If once a farmer, a warrior, a farmer leaves his farm home, he will never return to that land again. That's why it's very important that our message sent, primarily the Ministry, be a message of security. So, the man who deals with agriculture, I've talked, I live with these people, I've seen and I watch all their pain every day. This man invested all his time, all his wealth, many of them entered agricultural and other loans, invested in machinery, for agricultural fertilisers, for fuel, invested in various diets and agrotechnical measures. However, the price they were expecting did not get it. The price they invested was about 13 dinars, at least, and up to 10 dinars and a pound of potatoes, to the extent that even some agricultural producers informed me that they were giving their supplies just to free the warehouses. It is something that we must no longer allow to happen and what agricultural producers expect from us is one guarantee. They can't go into season without guaranteeing they can sell their product. Why? Well, that man only deals with agriculture. If one of his seasons fails, it's not a big combination or state-owned company behind which the system stands. He's standing behind that boss alone. One bad year our farmer can't survive. Where's the cost of production, where's the cost of living, where's the cost of family? So this is really the deadline if we want to save this agricultural season, to send a message to our farmers. A lot of damage has certainly caused the pandemic of the coronary virus, and I want, my second question, what will the Ministry do to help our cattlemen, especially those who do shepherding? There are over 50,000 lambs, sheep, which our cattlemen have failed to sell. Why? Because the work of the hotel, the work of the restaurant has been stopped. These are not the quantities with which we can go out to the world market where we can export, but they have been supplying restaurants in the interior, in Belgrade, on the coast, in Montenegro daily. The pandemic has completely thrown that kind of work and hotel and restaurant into its knees, and now we have this problem that has slowly reached our cattlemen. So, from the Ministry of Agriculture we expect a clear reaction, whether it's going to be some guarantee fund, whether it's going to be some subsidy. We certainly need to welcome all those subsidies we have in livestock, but that's not enough. Also, here is an important Ukrainian scenario, where the state subsidized the creation of a warehouse when it comes to the production of potatoes and thus decided to achieve an optimal price and to sell those stored potatoes the moment the price is satisfactory for the agricultural producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5812	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5813	Thank you. Dear President, honourable MPs, on the 'Hit tweet' broadcast on April 25th on the TV "Pink" Sunday, JS President Dragan Markovic Palma publicly showed an official note showing Dragan Gilas physically rebelled against his then wife and father-in-law. Based on this official note, the authorities did not respond, while on the other hand, the real political reality with Dragan Markovic Palm, where there are no witnesses or evidence, so that from underage girls we reached the animarium of the ladies, from playing around the pole to the dancers, and that someone told someone 11 years ago something, and the question of why they were silent, is the answer – we do not know. I think they know, because the political campaign for the upcoming elections is moving slowly, and I fully understand that we do not agree politically, that each party has its own goal and programme, a way to reach the voters, but the use should not mean the abuse of women, I can freely say for daily-political purposes. We saw yesterday an attempt to hold a political rally in Jagodina, and therefore, as a society, we must not allow such political abuse of women. I ask myself a question, and so do you dear colleagues - have we become a society where innocence is proven and guilt implies? So I repeat once again that there must be no advantage, that the entire heik of Dragan Markovic Palm should have his epilogue, must not remain in the air, because it is in the interest of both justice and citizens. We know the truth is on our side. To return to the official note shown by Dragan Markovic Palm, signed by Gilas' ex-wife. It says he beat her, her father, that he threatened to cut off her head in front of the children. So it's particularly sad that he's standing in the defense of women, and we see how the women who are in his society are going. So my question today is to all the competent institutions - did they respond when the official note was made and if not, why not? Otherwise yesterday, the leaders of the Freedom and Justice Party gathered in Jagodina where there were literally eight Jagodinas. It's their biggest gathering in Jagodina, I think. It was the right answer to the question of how many Jagodins believe in the lies of Marinika Tepic. The marine uses all of this, we could see, in order to politically rise up and collect cheap political points, because otherwise she would not have called a press conference on Facebook, but with evidence she would have gone to the prosecution, to the police, to all the competent institutions. Time will show who's right. You don't come to power with lies. We'll certainly remember every good word. Let us not be angry with those who secretly rejoice and hope that the Unique Serbia will disappear from the political scene because we are sure that justice and truth win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5814	Thank you. MP Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5815	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I would like to ask the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Mr. Branko Ruzic. For more than a year, we have been facing and successfully struggling with the world's unremembered global scale crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronal virus. In addition to our healthcare professionals who bear the greatest burden from the beginning, selflessly give and help all citizens, we should not ignore our education system and should not ignore our educational workers who are equally successful in dealing with these challenges. From the beginning, the way teaching was to change and adapt to the new circumstances, which was not simple at all, which was not easy at all, nor for teaching staff, nor for children, nor for parents. At the very beginning of the crisis, our country responded well, quickly found new models and ways to adapt to the new circumstances. The most important thing was that children were not deprived of education and the ability to be evaluated, passed exams and a small graduation. These days, a particular issue is the maintenance of small graduation, i.e. the final exam for the basics. As Minister Ruzic himself responded to the appeals that exams should be abolished this year for the crown of the virus, he said there are no legitimate reasons, on the contrary, laying down by law, an obligation for eights, and there is no reason to abolish the final test. The epidemiological situation is being monitored daily, and schools are making great efforts and strictly follow the recommendations of the Crisis Headquarters from the crisis to the present day. Schools were never the place where the virus spread, thanks to the great responsibility of teaching staff, parents and of course children. The eight have plenty of time to prepare for the final exam and pass it and enroll the desired high school according to the results achieved. About the little prom and the public, first of all, I'd like to ask the Minister of Education a question. Given that small graduation is required under the law and must be implemented regardless of the circumstances caused by Kovid 19, what is the position of the Ministry in relation to the scope and content of the material to be covered by the final exam for the founding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5816	Thank you, George. National MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5817	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5818	Just a reminder, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5819	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the most important thing for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is something that happened in the previous two days, which has already become a tradition, which is that whenever President Aleksandar Vucic visits a foreign country and has meetings abroad, this results in Serbia having a great benefit and that the citizens of the Republic benefit greatly, so that this whole series of meetings from Sunday to Monday evening in Brussels with top EU officials, the European Council and the European Commission have resulted in the construction of the Belgrade-Nish-Skoplje railway in Serbia. An investment of 700m euros. And that's definitely something that, with the end of the Belgrade-Novi Sad-Budapest railway, will change the image of Serbia and Serbia will look like we always admired just a few years ago Chinese cities, cities in Japan, cities in the US, smart cities, cities connected with extremely good infrastructure, highways, fast rail, fast trains. So Serbia is definitely heading towards becoming one of Europe's most dynamic economies and the most economically powerful countries not only in this region, but also in Central Eastern Europe. Of course, the possibility of continuing negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina is agreed in Brussels. This is one big challenge and it will take a very great skill, wisdom, everything President Vukic has shown over the past few years when it comes to defending our country's national interests and sovereignty. That is why I believe that we also need the stronger support of the majority in parliament, of all relevant social factors, of all the efforts that the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, had in defending our country and fulfilling his vision and of making Serbia an economic, military and political and geopolitically strong country in this region and across Europe. This dialogue will be very difficult, dialogue with people who are all the opposite of President Vukic, dialogue with Albin Kurti, Vlas Osmani because they do not understand what SNS policy is, the politics of the modern 21st century, the free flow of goods, people and capital, the policy of strengthening trade, strengthening the economy, economic growth and, of course, the well-being of all citizens. It is not what will build a fast track in Serbia only good for Serbia. It's good for the whole region, it's good for the entire Western Balkans, it's good for the whole of Central and Eastern Europe and it's good for the whole of the EU. In all of this, however, it is vital that we maintain inner peace, preserve internal stability. My question is specifically addressed to the Ministry of Justice, the judicial authorities, given the new information we received through the MUP media, and it concerns the finding of a vast arsenal of weapons of the drug clan whose champions were shut down two months ago in an extensively large action, and that is because of the attempt to eliminate the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and his entire family. Of course, what is very important is that we learn about how this investigation is progressing, when the investigation will be extended and of course it will be, we encourage them to be as effective as possible, as best as possible, because that answer is the answer and what will be done on this issue will have clear implications for the future of our entire country and for the future of our citizens, and we must not stand there. And we from the SNS will keep asking that question, because all these successes on the international agenda, on the outside-political agenda, must be monitored on a business plan by a fierce and determined fight against organised crime and, of course, corruption in our country. Also, I want to ask the judicial authorities in our country about certain cases involving illegal objects and concerning illegally built objects in Savamala, whose so-called owners are suing, have dared to sue the Republic of Serbia, and for the past few decades they have taken huge money, paid no one taxes, paid no one, dared to sue this country. Of course, it is their right, but it is not their right to have close relatives and women employed, even judges in certain courts in Belgrade where such a type of dispute is being conducted. I encourage and ask, of course, the Court of Commerce here in Belgrade to investigate these cases and at least what it can do to change the location of that kind of trial. We as a majority and as a SNS, together with our coalition partners, will support the rule of law, the rule of law and everything that President Aleksandar Vukic has defined in order to modernise and dynamic and strong development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5820	Thank you, Vlado. Since there are no more applications for asking questions, let's move on. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the People's Parliament of the Government of the Inhabitant. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 7 to 10 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure have been invited to attend the meetings of Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Vanja Udovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, Slavica Savičić and Saša Stevanović State Secretarys at the Ministry of Finance, Ninoslav Kekić, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Public Policy, Sonja Taljan and Ognje Popović, Assistant Minister of Finance, Bojan Tosic, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Public Policy, Marko Gvero, Director of the Office for Treasury at the Ministry of Finance, Vladimir Pejčić and Dejan Hadzic, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Finance, Branka Đorđević Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Rade Tojagić, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Finance and Jovan Dragumilo, an independent adviser at the Republic Secretariat for Public Policy. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to apply for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), I open my Rules of Procedure a common principle search on points 7 to 10, but since it is not long before I read: Proposal for a Law on Electronic Exclusion, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the time-limits for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act and Proposal for a Law on the Register of Administrative Procedures submitted by the Government. I welcome Minister Sinisha Malo, who is the promoter. Before I, uh, just apologize to the Minister for just a second to let you know just about the dynamics of our work. We're going to do today as I said we're going to do a joint principle search on these agenda points. Tomorrow we will have a principled search on international agreements that are on the agenda, and later on about these two laws in detail where we have the remaining amendments and tomorrow there will be a vote in the afternoon part of the session, that is, when the debate is over. As you know, I have scheduled for Thursday next session, and the meeting will open, namely, a principle debate on these four laws in four laws on Thursday, and from 16:00 to 19.00 hours, as the Rules of Procedure order to ask parliamentary questions to the government where we expect Prime Minister Brnabic to come with the members of the government and this will last until 19.00 hours, then the Easter holidays and we will continue on May 5th and 5th and 6th of May we will finish that session. And in the course of the day, I'm going to schedule the next session for May 11th, so you have an agenda, so you know exactly when we're going to do what we're going to do. Also, just to remind you, I have scheduled a meeting for tomorrow with political parties who want to discuss political issues, electoral conditions, without the presence of foreigners. In addition to these parties, I have called on our parties in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which are also the parliamentary majority. That meeting will be held tomorrow at 5:00 p.m. in the Little Hall. Jelena Zaric, who is there, has scheduled the start of these public debates that will take place several, about constitutional changes and will also be on Thursday, I think at 10.00. Let's move on now. Minister Mali, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5821	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Dacic, the honourable Members of the people, the respected citizens of Serbia, wish you a good day. Today, we have a few legal solutions that are extremely important and that should help improve the business environment in the Republic of Serbia and facilitate the business of our business entities. Above all, here I am referring to the new electronic invoice law that is in front of you today. It is a system law, therefore, which completely changes the way our economy functions in terms of digitisation and digital invoices already being implemented in the EU as a practice and which should contribute to transparency and legal security when it comes to business in our country. In a simple language, this law implies that the obligation to publish and receive electronic invoices will be gradually introduced for all economic operators in the VAT system from 1 January 2022 to 1 January 2023, when it will also be an obligation for all economic operators in both the public and private sectors that I say in the VAT system. This system, therefore, the use of the e-facture system will be completely free of charge. It's very important for me to point out, given some of the wrong comments I've had the opportunity to hear in the past. So this system will be completely free, and for those economic operators who want to use information intermediaries, they will be able to do so, but their relationship will be regulated by mutual agreement, not by law, which is very important to stress. As far as deadlines are concerned, as I said earlier, this system will be introduced phasely, therefore, since 1 January 2022, all public sector entities, so we are moving in with the public sector, will be obliged to receive, store and issue e-factures between themselves. Also, those in the private sector will have the opportunity to issue electronic invoices to the public sector if they want to work with the public sector. Since 1 July 2022, private sector entities will be trained, i.e. to be able to receive and store e-factures from both the public and private sectors, and since 1 January 2023, the entire private sector will be obliged to receive and send e-factures. So we start with the public sector between ourselves and those public sector operators will have to issue and receive electronic invoices from 1 January 2022, all those in the VAT system, and gradually involve the private sector. Since 2023, on 1 January 2023, all private sector entities that are VAT bonds will also have to be able to receive and issue electronic invoices. This is a huge step forward for all of us, for our entire economy. Imagine an economy where you don't have those paper invoices anymore, so those who are lost, you're pounding stamps that don't even exist, you can't find them afterwards. So, you save time preparing invoices, you save time saving invoices, you save time finding those invoices when you need them from a previous period. So these are huge things, but in the direction of digitisation and public administration, in the direction of digitising our business together with the Fiscalization Act, which you, the honourable MPs, have already adopted, which takes place on 1 January 2022, these are two system laws that completely change the way our economy works, facilitate, a more transparent environment, is more legal security and, of course, we are going to step up with the digitalisation process. What the whole world does is us. So, the benefits of all of this are enormous, and what businesses of course should count on, given that the entities in the VAT system, if the entry and export invoices fall under that system alone, is the VAT recovery process at the same time, so in the day. So, on that side, there won't be any more issues that we currently have the opportunity to hear from the economy, that it takes some time for that VAT to be accounted for and controlled by the tax administration and returned to the economy. Today it's much better and faster than it used to be, but this system is completely disappearing. Otherwise, at this point, let's not forget, in our central invoice register, you already have about four million invoices a year. So we're not going from zero, this is a process that some business entities are already working with the state and using. For your information, therefore, only on the world market is issued annually or received 550 billion electronic invoices. So this is a process we can't miss, this is something we have to do in our country. I say it will contribute both transparency and legal certainty, facilitate the business of our business entities. In the end, I say, let's step up with the world and that's something that's really a systemic change in the way our economy works. You also have before you the draft law amending the Law on the time limits for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions. According to the previous Law on electronic invoices, deadlines are changed. Instead of July 1st 2021, as currently attributed, it is prescribed on January 1st 2022 as the date of the start of the e-booking obligation in the Central Book Register. As I said earlier, so gradually, how certain economic operators, both publicly and in the private sector, will be equipped for this type of business, will be gradually recorded in the Central Register of invoices of this invoice. You are also facing a very important law today, i.e. amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. It's an interesting thing, given that this law solves something we may have been working out a long time ago, and it's a question of social capital in insurance companies. Believe it or not, there is social capital in certain companies of capital dealing with insurance business. Over here I mean "Dunav Insurance", "Dunav RE" and "Triglav Insurance". This law addresses the issue of where social capital is transformed into action in the following way: therefore 70% of that capital in favour of the Republic of Serbia, up to 25% of employees and former employees through free actions and 5% of the remaining ones go to the Action Fund, except for "Triglav Insurance", since the share of social capital is 0.12%. It doesn't make sense, it wouldn't be effective and it wouldn't be possible to distribute such a small part of the capital in this way. What's important is that the Constitution doesn't recognize social property. In this way we will finally complete and round the legal certainty of all those operating with the Danube Insurance, we will rightly define their ownership structure, enable them to do better business. On the other hand, these actions that will be shared to employees and former employees will also contribute a little more activity on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, and of course I expect a much more transparent and better business of these particular insurance companies. Finally, you also have before you the draft law on the register of administrative procedures. One very important law, a huge step forward. This register provides conditions for the establishment, management and keeping of a register. Therefore, this law provides for conditions for the establishment, management and management of this register. This is a register which represents one unique portal with all the information needed by public service users, which concerns the administrative procedures currently under way. So, on the one hand, a process that is fully in line with the digitisation of our public administration, and on the other hand, a process that contributes to even greater transparency and the public of all that is happening in the public administration. Of course, we expect that this law will also improve our country's position on various lists that are tied up and that measures the availability of public administration services, eliminate corruption space, raise our country's reputation, reduce the costs of handling. This register will greatly change the image of our country in terms of transparency, I say, both the public and the availability of the data we have. These are the four laws that are before you today. I would especially like to thank you in advance for paying attention to the Law on Electronic Exclusion. System law, huge change for our economy. Based on long conversations with our businessmen, various associations, looking at other countries' practices, we have come to a proposal for this law and I expect a large number of questions. I am here to respond to each and every one of them wishing that by passing these laws we would really take one big step forward when it comes to facilitating business in our economy and even greater legal certainty and transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5822	Thank you, Minister. Reporters, Aleksandra Tomic. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5823	I thank the chairman. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members, I would just like to thank the Ministry of Finance for participating in the public hearing organised by the committee on the adoption of a new Law on Electronic Purchase. In public hearing, we had the opportunity to ask our co-workers from this area at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Minister Cynthia Malloy, about all the details relating to e-factures at all. It's an entirely new digital step when it comes to this area at all. In addition to the fact that the public sector will work through this Central Register of invoices, i.e. the Treasury Administration, which will simply keep records of all payments, we will in a completely open and transparent way have insight into it, but not just us, but also all Serbian citizens in the way public funds are spent. That's part of it. The second part is the practical introduction of digitisation when it comes to the entire economy, i.e. the private sector. Now, we get to the part where we have to provide all the technical conditions to make this all work. Because we had, if you remember, a law and agreement concerning projects to introduce the Internet in rural areas. So, we need to create a basis for people who don't live in big cities where there's an open opportunity to use online, any online work, that's what we would allow for people who live in rural areas, because simply businessmen will be able to use this kind of service over the phone to do what's of great importance that we simply don't have to be exclusively connected to this digitalization process. This law doesn't change anything when it comes to VAT, everything stays the same. It strengthens this control when it comes to financial discipline and in one way we are entering a new era of functioning in terms of economy and finance. The year 2022 will be the year in which this law will start to be applied gradually, first among state institutions, or entities, and then private and state-owned and ultimately private and private. This is an indicator in which Serbia is heading, going into one complete modernisation, and everything that once worked in a certain way is practically changing. It is seen not only by these laws, but also by the way the world works. Serbia is obviously moving forward with all these changes and ways of new types of business. So, in the voting day, I think the members of the Finance Committee will contribute to this debate in particular on these laws, which are in a completely new, modern way here in the Assembly today on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5824	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5825	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, we have today another set of laws that will speed up the economy in our country, to which we will give one great pulse to economic development itself. What we have on the agenda today, e-booking law, certainly speeds up the VAT collection itself. This translated into the language of an ordinary man means more highways, more schools, more hospitals, more kindergartens, better wages, safer pensions. So, a safer life for all Serbian citizens. Minister, you said the law systematically regulates the area of sending, receiving, processing invoices. It automatically means lower costs for the economy itself. The paper is slowly going into history and this is what Serbia today characterises as a state that has digitised its public administration and will continue to improve the economic environment of our country. What is particularly important, what you said, is the fact that all these changes will happen in our economy at no cost and burden on the economy. Therefore, the State will assume on itself all costs incurred in the process. Also, when we talk about it, we've been waiting so long for the register of administrative procedures. In one place, on only three clicks, citizens will be able to inform themselves precisely about the number of documents, the amount of time it will take to conduct a certain administrative procedure. It's a big newspaper today. We all know that when we go to some counter, there's always this one piece of paper that's missing. Well, today you have a chance to see exactly how much paper you need in one place with a few clicks of insight into the register, so you don't miss one piece of paper. The state, therefore, comes out to meet and to businesses, but also to all those citizens who conduct administrative procedures. That will certainly improve, I say again, the whole business today in our country. We all know how many objections there have been so far to the work of our bureaucracy, our administrative workers. We from Europe whenever they came here, and even the DFS when it came, what was the main object was this very slow and three-way administrations. Today we solve this register with a huge number of problems, because in one place every citizen will be able to see exactly what he needs and that will certainly improve the economic environment in our country. On the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr. Kekic has presented certain dilemmas, members of the Committee have lauded on this subject and what seems to us today to be the main problem in Serbia, is that somehow the state is running a weak campaign to explain to citizens how many benefits from the transition to electronic business. Generally, you know that even a few years ago when we passed that law that you no longer have to go to the matriarch for the wedding paper, you don't have to go to the mother's for the birth certificate, and even today, go to every municipality and you'll see huge rows of the mother's, people haven't adopted those solutions that we've made today. We have them here, there are, but generally people still don't know. Here, an example of a catastre each in Serbia, look at the rows in front of each catastre. Why do people do this today when on two clicks you have the opportunity to extract a list of immovableities? I'm saying again, this country has to lead a little better campaign, bring citizens closer to the generals of all these legal solutions that we've adopted to make life easier for them. Of course, when citizens come to the MPs to complain about certain problems, they bring it up as a major problem. You also see subsidies when we give today, how many MPs who receive citizens today have the opportunity to hear that people simply don't know what subsidies the state is giving, where you can inform yourself. This register is partially resolved, but still the state has to take even more, I think a better campaign to make it even more possible for citizens to see where they can apply for certain projects that the state is providing, so that we can make life easier today for our citizens in Serbia. Once again, our Committee will give a positive report on all today's legislative proposals and we will vote in the voting day, and I hope that all MPs will give great support to these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5826	Thank you. The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5827	Thank you, Your Honor. The presidency, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the adoption of the Law on electronic invoicery is necessary in order to harmonise the regulations of the Republic of Serbia with the legal assets of the EU, which is also our obligation under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The introduction of electronic invoices is further announced and extremely significant work plan by the government of the Republic of Serbia for 2021, and only electronic invoices are mentioned in several national public policies documents. The aim of the introduction of electronic invoices, as we have heard, in our country's legal system is to reduce the costs of processing and keeping invoices, increase the collection of value added tax, ensure more effective control, tax control, speed up business processes and automate data processing. An unlimited obligation for electronic invoiceing between all private sector entities would be too much or would be too wide, too wide-ranging from the transposition of the EU's 55-EU Directive from 2014. Therefore, in this bill, one simple, more measured solution is very well proposed, according to which this obligation is limited exclusively to value added tax holders, while, when we talk about other private entities, it is simply left to them, it is possible to make a voluntary commitment to the issue of electronic invoices, which is certainly good and what the Committee on European Integration supports because it is in line with the said directive. Decision of the Law proposal which provides that the electronic invoice is to be issued in a structured electronic format that allows for the automatic processing of it, as well as that the electronic signature does not constitute an essential part, will certainly contribute to the time saving, which is logical and therefore indirect to the achievement of other objectives and objectives of the second Directive of 2011, Directive 7 on the fight against late payment in commercial transactions. The above-mentioned directive is the basis for the regulation of electronic invoices in public procurement, which is exceedingly foreseeable by legal and technical requirements that electronic invoices should meet in order to ensure the necessary interoperability of standards in cross-border procurement and trade, as the lack of the interoperability mentioned so far has negatively reflected legal certainty and imposed additional operational costs on operators using electronic invoices on cross-border transactions and led to the excessive complexity of the electronic invoice process. To return to Directive 55/2014 again, it cites as significant benefits of electronic invoicering as it enables both Member States and public contracting authorities and economic operators to achieve savings, as well as a positive impact on the environment. This Directive, of course, is subject to Chapter five of public procurement. In addition, the need for its transposition into the national legislation of the Republic of Serbia also indicates a national public policy document titled "A Programme for the Development of Electronic Administration in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2020 to 2022" with a concrete action plan for its implementation. With the introduction of a European standard of electronic invoicery, both in EU Member States, it means those already in the EU and in candidates, such as Serbia, means that in countries that have transposed EU legal assets, there is a positive impact on competition through an increase in the number of participants in public procurement, standardised conditions of participation and greater transparency. Using this standardised form of electronic invoices will allow for greater participation of companies and ours in public procurement and thus better access to foreign markets of companies, meaning ours, from the Republic of Serbia, with eased procedures and less costs. It is important to note that through the transposition of EU legal flows from electronic invoices, the Republic of Serbia and its economy become a member of a club that applies standardised elements of electronic invoices and thus can easily become participants in public procurements at EU level. The full compliance of the rules with EU legal assets will be completed, it is planned, in accordance with the envisaged deadlines in the accession process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5828	Thank you. Since there are no more reporters, we are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5829	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, is one of the very important topics for us members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Although she very often appears before us here, she deserves additional attention from our side through our discussions and observations. Namely, the quality and efficiency of the administration is of direct importance to the quality of the country itself, because if you want to know what one country looks like in terms of its efficiency, see its administration. The way this administration looks, or as effective or inefficient as that administration is, is actually the image or most authentic aspect of the image of a country. On the other hand, those countries that do not have the capacity to keep up with the challenge of time, space, and especially the needs of citizens in that space and at that time, most often, the most common phenomenon or the first battle that the state in these processes, the failed state, loses is the issue of reforming the administration itself. What I'm seeing is that this set of laws that we have before us today, which, hopefully in the proposed form, possibly in certain additions, are adopted, is actually a very important message and a confirmation that we in this country have the capacity to, in relation to the administration, in order to improve the quality of the administration and its efficiency, actually keep up with all the challenges when it comes to all needs of citizens, and above all in the field of efficiency itself. So all four laws have something to do with this subject, especially, as we heard in the explanation, the question of electronic invoicery, that is, the law that basically regulates this matter, which falls within the order of system laws, and where a very serious twist is made. In fact, we confirm that we have the capacity to move towards full recovery of the administration and that we will not allow what happens in countries that cannot be considered developed, which is that the administration becomes its goal, that it serves itself first, and that it is just losing its role, which is to be a service at the service of the citizens. These laws confirm the sense and responsibility of moving in that direction. In particular, as I said and as we heard in the explanation, there is an extremely important step towards simplification, in terms of facilitating citizens, especially in the field of business, but also in all other fields and the needs of the citizens themselves, where electronic invoicery is actually another significant step towards digitising the state's arrangement and the functioning of the state itself. It certainly brings me joy from the aspect of the Committee on Education which, among other things, covers the field of information society that is very active in this field through its subcommittee, which I have talked about before. In fact, this law also shows that what we are doing, together with the Government and in this National Assembly and through the board of directors, is not only a flossule and not just a title or title, but that we have a good step in the direction of digitization, just as it was announced in the very exposé of the day we chose government. So we are going in this direction with a very serious, firm step and what certainly is the joy of all those, especially young generations, these young entrepreneurs who are already formed and mentally in the spirit of digitisation and information culture strengthened, in fact we can certainly have the satisfaction of making this law an important step in this direction. When it comes to the Insurance Act, as we've heard, is the point in, finally speaking, drawing a line against the so-called. the concept of social property or social property. I even thought that we had completed this transformation process a long time ago, but we see that we are only now doing so in the final act when it comes to insurance companies that had the status of social, or state. So we're making a certain step towards the efficiency of these societies. Of course, the issue of insurance is a subject that is not only significant in terms of the property of these societies. It's a subject that we're going to have to deal with more seriously now, and I'm not sure that we've made an effective insurance society, especially when it comes to these big societies, there's a huge potential, but I think that there's still, in addition to these aspects that we're doing today and which are very important, we need to deal with more thoroughly, in order for citizens from the insurance aspect to be protected professionally. The issue of amending and supplementing the Law on commercial transactions is also of paramount importance. It concerns, above all, deadlines for certain obligations in these commercial transactions, where we have so far had legitimate complaints and certain dissatisfactions, given that we did not have a legally regulated question of terms of commercial transactions, so that we had in some way a space of self-will in certain services, tax administrations, where actually certain executives and officials were able to discharge their own-will selectively applying the possibility of transactions where some had waited very long and some paid very quickly and efficiently for certain claims. So now we realize a certain assumption of a framework where that possibility will be reduced. Ladies and gentlemen of this field, the issue of commercial transactions is still a very sensitive field, a field where we have not yet managed to deal with the serious phenomena of corruption, because in fact there is a huge potential for corruption, and a huge interest is in the issue of tax evasion, and tax-related crime is an ancient issue, and the question is, today, with which they are seriously dealing, so on. developed countries. So no matter how much we fix this field, I'm not sure we're going to draw a line and say it's over, no more crime, no more corruption in that field. Unfortunately, there are some of us who come from the field, from various parts of this country, also carry experiences that are naturally based on information given to us by citizens themselves, in this case people from the economy, who have permanent communication with the tax administrations, when it comes to VAT, when it comes to tax refund, or VAT return. So we still have very serious problems here and it doesn't need to be some financial expert to find out that somewhere leaks, not that leaks, but seriously leaks off certain assets that are actually citizens' assets. As far as we take the example of the New Market, which should be among other topics of our dealings, you will make it very clear that we have not yet settled this issue in a way that we have a serious difference. Let's say we take the population parameter, the city of 120,000, on the one hand. On the other hand, we take the parameters of the number of registered legal entities, i.e. economic operators, and on the third hand we take the amount parameter in terms of return of VAT. So, with these three parameters, as a layman, you will very quickly determine that there are serious failures, and even if you go a little deeper and bury yourself, so look for a list that are economic operators, or even more precisely individuals, owners of these economic operators who are doing very effectively, long before the deadlines, in enormously high amounts to recover VAT, then you can actually, you don't have to be either a prosecutor or an investigative judge, to at least in principle conclude that we have a huge problem here. The new Pazar is far behind when it comes to realising VAT, given these parameters that I mentioned, the number of residents, the number of economic operators, which are not only registered, but are active, and then they are economic operators and their owners who are the permanent users of VAT returns. Of course, if you have a little more ingenuity, especially how much inspection services are interested in this, and then you get to what is the basis of VAT vomiting, so most often it's a fictitious basis which, in fact, is not public, whether it's fictitious exports or some others, you can say a falsified basis, then you'll very clearly come up with that it's a serious crime and that it's serious systemic corruption. I can't be calm, not just because certain businessmen complain that they're damaged in this way, but also as a MP, I can't keep quiet on these phenomena, because it's huge funds that were actually stolen from citizens, that way, because those funds were meant to return to the construction of schools, to build roads, to solve waterway problems, to deal with sewers, to edit green areas, to once say return to the city, i.e. To the citizens. We seriously have to deal with this and this is my call to the Ministry of Finance, to deal with the work of the Tax Administration in Novi Pazar, that this issue is geographically on the periphery, but it shouldn't be thematic on the periphery, because as far as we're concerned, we protect the tax administration in Novi Pazar from crime and corruption, customs administration from crime and corruption, which I've talked about a little bit in previous exhibitions. The new Pazar would gain new strength, new financial strength, new potential and could invest these resources in its needs, and its needs are enormous, as it grows and demographically, growing geographically, growing building, but unfortunately we do not have the effectiveness of monitoring this development that continues to be philosophical. Most of the time, Novi Pazar develops by means of diaspora, funds that come from individuals, valuable individuals who earn money in the country or abroad. It's a serious asset, but what needs to be a service of the state, through the city administration, and yet from the means that are legally provided and intended for those purposes, which come from collecting all taxes, in this case and VAT, so we have these huge gaps. I repeat, you don't need special criminal processing, you don't need some excessive expertise, you just cross-reference, you just put these parameters in front of you, the number of residents, the amount of taxes, or VAT that are collected and seen, you take a list of people who are the permanent users of VAT returns, and you'll see that these are criminal groups, criminal individuals with files, close crime and are certainly in good shape. Either directly with the officials, or responsible in the tax administrations, in this case in this tax administration or with other city structures of government, either political or administrative, or police, judicial or prosecutorial, which was repeatedly said. This is a good reason to talk about this. The deadlines for transactions will thus protect those who have not been networked into these criminal-corruption schemes and systems, but that will not be enough. So, that's good to protect those honest businessmen and users, in fact, these services, but we're going to have to move on and we're going to have to do all those activities that the government and other institutions are leading to in the fight against organised crime, here at Belgrade level, at the level of the republican institutions. I repeat, and I will not stop repeating, it must continue until every last capillaries, the country's system capillaries, wherever that may be, at 300, 400 or 500 kilometers from the capital. This is what is not only our request, as a political representative, or a national MP, but something that is truly inevitable, because as the people's proverb said, a small fire and a small disease must not be underestimated, because they are small today, and when they are underestimated they can become large very quickly, and later they either choke harder or they are very large. The question, also the register of administrative procedures, is another law that we are actually governing the state administration, we are making it effective and two concepts in the reasoning that we heard were distracting me and they are the essence of all of our legislative activities in the making of new laws, but also in the changes and additions that are ahead of us. It is a matter of transparency and a matter of legal certainty. With all four of these laws, we're doing it and actually to the extent that we're making it, in which we're able to be transparent, we're going to succeed, and we actually have a healthy administration. The question of transparency and not transparency is as much as the question of the relationship of light and darkness. You know, thieves operate best in the dark. When it's dark, their fingers are very efficient, other people's pockets get hurt and no one sees, no witnesses. The moment you turn on the light, the fingers of the thief are removed from someone else's pockets. So, transparency in all fields, especially in administration, actually means inclusion or people's terms, lighting lights in all parts of the state administration, where the possibility of abuse, manipulation and all of those deviations that we had, which in some way allowed individuals to actually be in the administration of some kind of protected bears, protected species that were untouchable, of which efficiency depended on many things in humans. I also remember as a boy, and as a young man, if I were to go to the state administration of Tutina or Novi Pazar, you'd already had the usual answers in front of the big crowd where the counter came down, and for a time it was a wonderful excuse we didn't have an answer to, which fell down the system. The system went down, no administration, no clerks, no employees. On the other hand, breakfast, breakfast that lasts three hours, and so on, and so on. So, these were all deviations that would actually come up with these activities and these legal solutions, because by electronic communication, by electronic invoice, by order of the Register, by administrative procedures, and by all these legal solutions, we're going to have what we want, and we're going to bypass the possibilities of the problem, or the shortcomings in the efficiency of the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5830	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5831	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers Sinisha Mali and his associates, the Honorable People's MPs, today we are talking about the laws on electronic invoices, the draft law amending the Law on the time-limits for the settlement of financial obligations in commercial transactions, the draft law amending the Insurance Act, as well as the Law on the register of administrative procedures. All these laws further improve the state of Serbia. These laws further improve our economy, improve the additional business environment and way of doing business in our country. The state of Serbia has made significant progress over the last eight years, and it has been recognised by both Europe and the world. We could testify to that during yesterday's visit to Brussels, and these are all the reasons why the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support these laws in the voting day. That the state of Serbia is making significant progress in every segment and in every respect, says the fact that Serbia is now 19th in the world according to gender equality and that we have made progress from as many as 20 places. That was said by Deputy Prime Minister, Minister and head of the co-ordination body for gender equality Zoran Mihajlovic, the result of this government the day before yesterday, is the result of the current policy, a policy supported by Unity Serbia. That we are in favour of gender equality is also the fact that we are at the highest political post of Unity Serbia just appointed by the woman, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Marija Jevdzic. So this is the result and progress of the current government, the current policy. And certainly not the legacy of politics, if at all there was and if he ever had Dragan Gilas. On the contrary, it is the result of this authority. Of course, Dragan Gilas is not responding to Serbia's progress, he is not in favour of stability, neither political, nor economic, and his only answer is for Serbia to be a good business environment for his personal company. That's why Dragan Gilas and his saint, with his lady of lies, designed the affair for Dragan Markovic Palma under the guise of fighting for women's rights. And who is he who leads that fight for women's rights? Who's Dragan Gilas? Here I have in my hands an official note which was made on 7 December 2014 at the Vračar Police Station, where she made and signed an ex-wife, Dragan Gilas, Ivo Gilas. I will not, because I neither Dragan Djilas nor Marinika Tepic read all the details of this official note, but what is very important and what I have to read, because he is talking about this female rights fighter and gender equality, he says – that on December 6, 2014, somewhere around 21 o'clock, Dragan Gilas attacked his wife, his ex-wife, his former mother-in-law, and when he came in to separate them, he struck his former father-in-law, his former father-in-law, and as he stood in an official note, hit him with his back, hit him on the floor, gave him a closed hand, fist-to-mouth, blow in the head, and all in front of our daughter. I won't say my name. They kept wrestling on the floor. My mother and I tried to separate them, and then I ran into the hallway of the building and rang the neighbors to help us, but no one opened the door. One very important detail of this statement – Dragan then left the apartment and as he came down to the building door I heard him say to someone, call the police. I'm asking Gilasu why he called the police to prevent the police station's reaction, the police department and the police department. Did he use his influence in political and economic power as he used it when he was in power, and made a huge fortune? The other thing that's very important in this statement, which is very distressing to me, and which speaks of one terrible scribbling and physical and psychological abuse of women, is that the sentence in the statement is one of the last sentences in the statement, he said – a month ago, means a month before that event, he threatened me by telling me – I'll cut your head off. I didn't report all this, but now I'm very concerned about my parents and children's safety after all. I don't know which address Dragan Gilas lives in and the number he uses. This is very important, for by not giving his address and place of residence, the ex - wife, among other things, this one speaks of one’s relationship with women. You see, as we can see, a proven bully is trying to put himself in charge of a fighting column for women's rights. As we can see from this official note, he is using his influence not only to gain wealth, but also to cover up these affairs, and we have just asked the question, is the police administration responsible and other authorities, the prosecution, etc. reacting to this official note and if it didn't, why didn't it react? Dragan Gilas and his Pinocchio or Mrs. Lie took advantage of yesterday's call to the police administration in Jagodina to tell Mrs. Lie, to make political reality, or to make a political rally in Jagodina. At that rally, about 150 people were brought in, of those 150 people, only 8 from Jagodina, 8 from 80,000 people from Jagodina. And that first of all tells who the Jagodins trust and tells about where the truth lies in this whole imaginary affair, because who knows better than the people of Jagodina? Of those eight miracles, one was a man whose brother is currently in prison because he was accused of pedophile. That tells you everything. They drove dozens of cars and minibuses from Belgrade, first of all, but we know that it was from Bor, Smederjevska Palanka, Paracina, Čupre, there were 150 people, which is the maximum that they could have gathered, of course, by driving on the side and once again I say, eight Jagodins of 80,000. Of course, at that gathering that took place and which they organized at the time of the crown, and just to remind you that 15 days ago, you were accused of the same thing by Dragan Markovic Palm, which he sang with his mask on the plane, and the political gathering can, of course, not a problem. Mrs. Lie went to the Police Department, gave a statement, and after what we could hear from her coming out, what she said, she said nothing new in that statement. Same old known lies, inventions at the expense of Dragan Markovic Palma, at the expense of public sector employees and public enterprises, at the expense of the city of Jagodina. Why Dragan Markovica Plama? Because he's a host, a traditionalist who holds on to traditional values and traditional culture, because his family is sacred, because everything is not Dragan Gilas. Marinika Tepic said after leaving the Jagodina Police Administration that she has some witnesses, but that she will not show up because she wants to protect them because she wants to protect their privacy because she doubts the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Look at that absurd. That same Marinika Tepic said a few days ago - I don't want the prosecution in Jagodina to be in charge, because she will be under pressure from Dragan Markovic Palma, and then when the Appealal Prosecutor's Office transferred the case to Kragujevac, then she doesn't care about the Kingdom, she probably doesn't care about Belgrade either, the only thing that matters to her is Zurich, Zanzibar, Mauricias or I don't know where all these exotic places are. Of course, there are no witnesses, because if Marinika Tepic had them, she would have filed a criminal complaint against Dragan Markovic Palma. Here, I ask - why did Marinika Tepic not file criminal charges against Dragan Markovic Palma? You want me to tell you why? Because there's no witnesses, because there's no victims, because there's no evidence, because all of these are empty stories. If she made a criminal report, that lady would later be charged with false reporting. She has, of course, good lawyers. Dragan Gilas can pay the best lawyers, and they advised her not to file criminal charges. But then I ask the question again how does this same lady lie think the prosecution is going to proceed if there's no witnesses, if there's no casualties, if there's nothing? Then how can she sue? She's looking for special witness protection, it's not a dispute, but how if she doesn't say who the witnesses are? Who's the D.A.'s office gonna give special protection to, the one he doesn't have, the one he doesn't know, the N.N.'s face? There is no such thing in our judiciary, ladies and gentlemen? And who are the witnesses of Marinika Tepic? I was talking here last time about Branislav Radosavljevic, I was showing pictures, photographs, that it was a party activist Dragan Gilas, who, as time has been going on very active in these political activities in recent years, we now know that he is very active at Vozdovac, that he has fought some things in the Pubal area, etc., but apart from being a political activist we later learned. Mr Branislav Radosavljevic was arrested six times, five times in 2008 and once in 2009, mostly in the territory of the Zvezdar Police Station, but also in the territory of Vračar Police Station, based on part 221, the most common car theft. In 2010, the man moved out of Belgrade, fled Belgrade, and lived for one time in Jagodina, and went from Jagodina to Subotica, and returned to Jagodina to get protection first by the end of 2019, Vuk Jeremic, whose party he was and later Dragan Dilas. So it's about a man with a criminal record. It's that Marinick witness, ladies and gentlemen. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, said four days ago – I personally saw the girls dance up the pole. The night before last, he denied it all and according to that good manner, our well-known poet, Matija Bećković said – said one man to me. So she didn't even attend, she didn't see, she did, but she's talking about something that happened ten, eleven years ago, apparently happened, and what she heard from some man. She received a very smart question on the show that she hosted from one viewer, who certainly is not fond of the Unique Serbia or our policy. He asked why, Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, you kept quiet for ten, eleven years. Of course, the answer was nothing. She kept quiet. All of this is a kind of political harangus and political reality that has brought reality to Serbia, so Dragan Gilas and all of this, I would say, is the start of a political campaign ahead of the upcoming local elections for the city of Belgrade, the republican and presidential elections, as announced. This is, I may say, the dirtiest political campaign of Dragan Gilas and his brothers. All gathered yesterday in Jagodina, and Dragan Djilas, and Mrs. Lie, Borko Stefanovic, Veseinovic, and all these great politicians gathered yesterday in Jagodina, the great opposition, managed to bring in barely 140 people from all over Serbia and find eight people, but by letters and by the number of eight people from Jagodina. Of course, that reality they're making, because it wasn't making a statement, it was a political rally and a political rally, it was the manner of political action of one who doesn't have a policy, who doesn't have a program, who doesn't have an idea, but only chaos, chaos and street is the only way out at the end of their tunnel, so they can get their hands on what's their ultimate goal, and that's to get the authorities. Like I said last time, I'm saying it today. I'm telling Dragan Gilas, you're broke, the people don't want you, and you can do whatever you want, the people just won't. Mrs. Lie says yesterday – we ask that witnesses testify online, to testify disguised as was masked and scrambled by that false witness of theirs, and we see, party activist Branislav Radosavljevic. Why? There are other methods of protection. Why online? It's a political game of Mrs. Lie and her employer, Dragan Gilas, and all in order for this whole legal, so to speak, procedure to not begin at all. It's not their goal to protect the victims, because there are no victims, but their goal is to eventually, because there are no victims, there are no witnesses, there's no works, the prosecution says - we reject and close the case, there's nothing. Well, then, if they stick their finger in the same prosecution, and thus point the finger at the state of Serbia and say -- here, the judiciary protects Dragan Markovic Palm. Justice protects people in power. It's their only exit strategy from this whole story and this whole pot and these pomaces that they've mixed up on their own. Well, it won't be like that. We will insist to the very end. To the very end, we will insist that these facts be illuminated. We will not appeal to the limitations of the procedure, because it is our aim to prove the truth, because the truth is on the side of Dragan Marović Palma, and on the side of Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, i.e. the ladies lie and the whole of those brothers are lies and years ago they're just sorting lies after lies. They form and make some fake affairs. They complain in front of the international community and complain and accuse the state of Serbia of only harming Serbia, because a prosperous Serbia, as it is today, is not responding at all. Once again, all this is the political reality of the reality maker in Serbia, Dragan Gilas, and, once again, it is difficult for women that Dragan Gilas defends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5832	Thank you, Mr. Starchevich. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5833	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, is today ahead of us a set of draft laws relating to electronic invoices, then deadlines for the settlement of monetary obligations in commercial transactions, etc. RINO, as well as the Law on the Register of Administrative Procedures. The very explanation of the Law on electronic invoicery as the primary reason for its introduction shows the increased visibility of those transactions between the entities and the public sector, then the public and private sector entities and, ultimately, private sector entities located in our country's VAT system. Electronic invoices, as we know, include those invoices issued and received by electronic means and in the manner set out in the Bill's proposal, it is no doubt that only the introduction of the electronic invoice process will speed up the way in which the invoices are exchanged. Then, the payment process itself is much faster and more efficient, cheaper, and the possibilities for making mistakes when making up their own invoices are minimalized. I will try to, through an analysis of the benefits, i.e. the advantages this law has, isolate certain continents based on which perhaps a small one would better explain why this law is good, or why we should support it in the voting day. To begin with, it's saving money, then saving time and less mistakes in the work. When I say money savings, that's where I mean the savings that are made in terms of using postal services. Most companies, i.e. a large number of companies that issue a large number of invoices, consider before the world the wholesalers, indeed a large number of invoices that are sent on a monthly basis, and hence the funds allocated for postal services. When sending the invoice, the company pays not only the postage, the larger and the envelope and the printing. Somewhere I found information that electronic invoices in this sense bring savings to as much as 60% when it comes to this issue. The postal costs may be higher if invoices are sent to customers by the recommended mail at return and it is not difficult to calculate the amount at the monthly level, which a company which, for example, belongs to some level of medium-sized enterprises can, or must be, singled out on a monthly basis for the purpose of sending the invoice. If we take the example that sending a single invoice is 75 dinars, and it, for example, sends between 2,000 and 2,500 invoices a month, it would mean that the monthly cost is only for postal services of about 150 thousand dinars, and you will agree with me that one such savings in terms of prevention, i.e. the absence of mailing these same invoices could lead to significant savings on an annual basis, especially when it comes to those economic operators that fall into the private sector, because for them, time in a literal sense means money. The next topic, that is, in the context of the advantages of this law, is to save time, and it may have the most direct impact on the very outcome and way of business of all businesses, starting from small, medium and large companies. Time is spent not only on data input, but also on archiving, paying bills. Then, when it comes to some small companies that do not use electronic banking, it involves going to the bank, which further requires both the effort and the time of each and indeed, if we look at one comprehensive way, the introduction of electronic invoices leads to time savings in every possible way. Finally, but not least, I am a business software, i.e. a special program in which to process and store all the data relating to a single invoice in a digital format, and in every possible respect the possibility of errors when entering the data itself that are kept down to a minimum. Perhaps it is one of the key eFacture decisions, which distinguishes them from classic paper, which is their potential for automatic processing, which in a number of those who participate in the process of publishing and sending, and also the payment of invoices, I mean both the state and the tax administration and customs and customers and sellers, really means one comprehensive savings, i.e. there are many benefits. We were actually talking a few days ago about the importance of data protection on personality and respect for all those provisions that are contained in other laws, which concern the substance protection of personal data and I think that the Law on electronic invoiceing, as one law that generates and automatically processes data on all economic entities that would enter the electronic invoice system itself, so that it would practically mean that it must contain one good system of protection of all these data, that is to make available only those data that are in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, because that is the only way we will be able to create a stable business environment and to preserve their privacy. Also, in the past year, the stories about environmental protection and the very policy of environmental protection in Serbia have been kind of intensified. You'll agree with me that the public talks a lot more about it, but also the commitment of the government to allocate significant resources really comes to terms and is simply realized in each of the steps that it takes when it comes to protecting the environment. One of them can be electronic invoices. I'm thinking about a series of events that can have a comprehensive impact on environmental protection. I'll start with the paper consumption, and that's why it cuts the trees. This necessarily affects the reduction of transport costs, i.e. energy for transport. Then, this leads to a reduction in the emissions of harmful gases, resulting in a decrease in carbon dioxide. So it's a completely rational and reasonable requirement to protect the environment by switching to electronic invoices, which, you'll admit, we've put as a priority goal in some future period. The law governing this area is a newspaper in Serbia. It is not fully accepted as a concept without talking about the way it will be implemented. However, this is not only the case with Serbia. On the contrary, such a situation is far more developed in other countries than we are. In particular, the very degree of adoption of electronic invoices moves around the world only about 8% compared to the total number of invoices that are being issued. At EU level, the average is 8% to 41%, depending on the country's development and that is a small number, given that more than 35 billion invoices are issued annually at EU level. That's a big number. It encourages the fact that the use, i.e. the acceptance and adoption of electronic invoices itself, is on the rise, and that is the tendency, that is, of our country's intention, and I expect that, after the adoption of this law, all these Benefiti electronic invoices will be accepted in the way we are now trying to explain it. Not only the advantages, but one of the important things that may need to be mentioned, which may pose a potential risk to the full application of this law, concerns small businesses and refers to what may pose an obstacle to their application. Here I think of the business software that both small and medium-sized enterprises must use to engage in the electronic invoice system itself. Take, for example, that a small company cannot perform a calculation that would make its savings more efficient by introducing this software than would have been savings that I had just talked about in time, and in all other ways, and in that sense perhaps it should consider how to encourage them to join an electronic invoice system, or perhaps through co-financing of those programmes that they must have. It is in this direction that the proposal of this law goes, given that their obligation to use electronic invoices has been shifted for 1 January 2023, so it has left them quite enough space to think about their business ventures, to perform their mathematics, or to calculate how much this is worth to them, and at what specific business moment, in order to adapt in time to electronic invoices in all manner provided for by the Law on electronic invoices. If we look at the aspect of the state, I think it's a clear goal of introducing this law on invoices, which is a gap that exists between VAT, then fighting undeclared VAT and unpaid taxes. If we start from the fact that the tax represents the basic obligation of every citizen in this country, then his justification is so much higher. As for the amendment of the Law on the time limits for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions, I will not linger on it, since it is only the alignment of the date. This law provides for the start of the implementation, i.e. the introduction of electronic invoices from 1 July 2021, since we are also discussing the Law on electronic invoices, which moves that deadline for 1 January 2022, this amendment applies exclusively to this harmonisation. In short, I would also refer to the Law on the Register of Administrative Procedures, as one law relating to the methodology of administrative procedure, i.e. administrative procedures, and their content that exists on the portal of the E-Government, and I will try to make arguments on my part, i.e. by the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, why this law is important to us and what it will essentially bring to all citizens of this country. You will agree with me that economic operators and citizens very often do not know which counter they should go to, they do not know what forms to fill, they do not know what amount of taxis and what amount of fees they have to pay. In front of each administration, you have an ad board that contains a list of procedures, so people try to get over this problem, and for that very reason, it requires a huge effort and time for each of us. Furthermore, administrative procedures, I am sure that each of us has faced this for a very long time, and they can, long-termly, represent an insecure business environment for all those who dare to deal with some business in Serbia, and by introducing, or by adopting such a law, which in a comprehensive way would systemise both the procedures and ways of their adoption and the patterns that would be uniform and the amount of taxis, indeed creates a good business environment, which creates security for every economic operator who wants to do anything in Serbia. In that sense, a multi-year project "E-paper" was launched, whose consequence was the adoption of this law and its objective was that all administrative procedures were carried out by electronic means, I say, from the chair. According to what I found in the material, the expected results of this project by 2021 were partially realised. By this year, a register of all administrative procedures was to be established, to optimise 500 of the most frequent and expensive procedures, then to digitise 100 procedures for issuing permits and consent and to reduce the costs of the administration in the economy by about 15% compared to what is now being allocated. I'll try to sum up what's been done. 84 public administration institutions at the republican level, as well as Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, were included, including around 2,500 administrative procedures. In each institution, a coordinator dealing with this issue has been designated, and that is indeed commendable, because you have an official who deals only with this issue, and that at the same time he has been relieved of some other affairs that may interfere with the realisation of the primary objective. And in the end, they are listed in a uniform manner all procedures and, as such, entered into the electronic database. I must say that this law would prevent all administrative procedures and other conditions from being transparent and accessible, which would also prevent the possibility of abuse, then protection and corruption, because in this context, instead of going from one to the other counter, in which case you would risk getting completely wrong and conflicting information about how a certain procedure should be conducted by different officials, indeed in one such way, through a simple search, or register of all procedures, citizens can facilitate their business and create their business tasks. For this reason, given that all these laws that we are talking about today are really in the interest of citizens, allow them to finish their jobs as soon as possible, then, affect the absence of corruption and reduce the possibility of malversion, I personally think these laws are excellent. That's why the SDPS will support all these bill proposals in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5834	I thank the authorised representative of the SDPS. The word has the mandated representative of the SVM parliamentary group National MP Rosalia Ekres.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5835	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President Kovac, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, as its authorised representative, I express great satisfaction with the set of proposed laws on the agenda today. As we have heard in the opening presentation of Mr. Minister, it is four proposals, two of which are completely new, very important, and these are the draft laws on electronic invoicery and the draft law on the register of administrative procedures. We also consider two draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on the deadlines for the execution of financial obligations in commercial transactions, as well as amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. I will begin my presentation with the proposal for an electronic invoice bill. The National Grey Economy Prevention Programme discusses the potential contribution of electronic invoices to curbing the grey economy, stressing that the transition to electronic invoices opens up opportunities for more efficient business of taxpayers, as well as more effective supervision of value added tax payments. As the basic benefits of the introduction of electronic accounts, it is pointed out that they would significantly reduce administrative burden and allow more comprehensive IT solutions in business and contribute to the conservation of the environment. The programme for the development of electronic administrations in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2020 to 2022, with an action plan for its implementation, also speaks in favour of the need for a special law to regulate the area of electronic invoicery. The application of this law will establish visibility regarding a wide range of transactions between public sector entities, public and private sector entities and private sector entities in the electronic invoice system. By means of electronic recording obligations in the electronic invoice system, which has been introduced phasely since 1 January 2022, it will become visible any obligation to charge value added tax, which allows for control and insight and thus will significantly increase the effectiveness of tax collection, thereby facilitating the work of the tax administration. The law will save the public sector, and in particular the economy will facilitate work, save time and cut operating costs. By introducing such a legal solution, we are taking an important step forward in the process of innovation and digitisation. Serbia is becoming a modern country that is moving forward with the latest business trends in the world, which SVM certainly supports. All of these facts are sufficient reason for the proposal for an electronic invoice law to have our full support. The next legal act on the agenda today is the Law on settlement deadlines for financial liabilities in commercial transactions. It only changes in one member. That amendment is necessary in order to comply with the proposal for an electronic invoice law which requires the public sector entity to receive and maintain an electronic invoice issued under this law, as well as the obligation to issue an electronic invoice to another public sector entity, starting on 1 January 2022. The third legal act on the agenda today is the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. The insurance sector, as one of the most important financial activities in every developed economy, has been constantly growing in the Republic of Serbia in recent years, but still insufficient, given the potential it has. There are still very few citizens and their assets, as well as the property of legal persons, so there is a large space for developing a healthy and efficient insurance market that would contribute to the development of the country itself. The total insurance premium in Serbia is about 2% of GDP and compared to the EU at 8%, our market remains underdeveloped. According to the latest official data in Serbia, 20 insurance companies operate with more than 11,000 employees. The insurance business deals with 16 companies, while the resecuritisation business deals with four societies. As one of the factors that has a negative impact on the development of the insurance market is the existence of social capital in certain insurance companies. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not recognise social property as a form of property that puts in an unequal position of the insurance company, which continues to have social capital under its capital. It's three about the company, which is "Dunav Insurance", Danube Re" and Triglav Insurance. The current legal framework relating to social capital in insurance companies is not clear and precise enough, nor applicable in certain cases. Therefore, the solution proposed by this law brings many positive things to the financial market of the Republic of Serbia. This law finally addresses the question of social capital in insurance companies in a systematic and efficient way. This enables the elimination of inequality on the market brought by social capital to the insurance companies concerned, which is now equated with other market participants through the relief of business and business book management. Also, the overall capital in these societies finally gets a titler which increases transparency and responsibilities in business. As we have heard of the change in the ownership rights of social capital in the three insurance companies will be implemented by transferring 70% of social capital to the Republic of Serbia, up to 25% of capital is transferred to employees and former employees through free shares, and the remaining 5% of social capital is transferred to the stock fund. Given the trend that significant growth is expected in the overall economy of the Republic of Serbia, realistic expectations are that the overall insurance premium will continue to show growth in the coming period. As is known, the insurance sector depends directly on the overall development of the economy. Ensuring sound risk management, achieving stability and development is possible. In addition to economic development, however, it is also necessary to work on promoting and raising awareness, i.e. education of citizens on the importance of insurance and the way it works. Given the important economic and social aspects of insurance, the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act deserves support. The next new law in the context of today's joint search is the draft law on the register of administrative procedures. This law aims to establish a register of administrative procedures. This means that there will be a number of administrative procedures carried out by the administration, in which economic operators and citizens can exercise their individual rights. When economic operators and citizens want to exercise their right or fulfil their obligation often do not know who to turn to, what they need from the documentation, within which the deadline is resolved, whether it is necessary to pay something, and if it is the amount to be paid, which is the procedure of the resolution, etc. Most of the time, they don't even know who they'd ask. We have witnessed that in practice, it has often occurred that on various counters, different information was received from officials regarding the same requirement, which caused further confusion among citizens. They rarely gave up their possible benefits or failed to meet their obligations. The establishment of a register would make all information publicly available on all administrative procedures prescribed by the Republic, the province and local regulations. Also, the establishment of this register will lead to savings, both on the part of business operators and citizens, and on the part of the national authorities themselves, because simpler and clearer forms of demand will be prescribed, greater precision and uniformity and electronic procedures, and for citizens and business entities will be provided with much more security because they will have clearer procedures and publicly available information about them. At the same time, it will be possible to avoid crowd-making, especially during this period of spread of infectious disease very important, as it will be easier to obtain the forms and lists of documentation needed, and the parties will be able to obtain all necessary information without going to the competent authority, sufficient self-review in the register. The adoption of the law will also have a positive impact on the improvement of the business functioning of legal persons. In one place, all administrative procedures that legal entities can lead, as well as how they can exercise their rights, will be counted, resulting in a faster achievement of their rights, as well as obligations that legal entities have towards state authorities. In view of this, we can conclude that after the adoption of this law, the achievement will be multiple, and this is certainly also a transparent business environment, significantly reduced business costs for business operators and citizens, as well as simplification, the exercise of rights and obligations of business entities and citizens. From our point of view of the organisation and implementation of administrative procedures, the SVM Parliamentary Group's voting day will be very pleased to support the draft law on the register of administrative procedures, as well as any other draft laws on the agenda of today's session that I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5836	(The Vice President speaks in native language. I thank you. The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5837	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, the respected president of the finance ministry, dear colleagues and first respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, firstly to say that the SPS MPs will certainly support the proposed set of laws, but that would not be a blank support I will try to explain why. Today's parliamentary debate covers four draft laws that are important for improving the legal framework in several significant areas, and for further harmonisation of domestic legislation with legal assets, in particular the EU. On the agenda Proposal for a Law on electronic invoices, Proposal for a Law on the Register of Administrative Procedures, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act and Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the time limits for the settlement of monetary obligations in commercial transactions. I will certainly look back as an authorised representative to a whole set of laws, but my fellow MPs will speak more closely and deal with the individual laws of this world, because each of these laws truly deserves special attention and some time to be devoted. I'm limited, so I'm going to try to narrow down as much as possible. We have a whole new regulation ahead of us, it's an electronic invoice bill. They spoke to colleagues, an electronic invoice system is being introduced for commercial transactions. So, classic paper-form invoices are replaced by electronic invoices and this law thus creates another important legal basis for further development primarily of the information society in the sector of the most important, I would say, financial business. Serbia's progress in digitisation is recognizable, almost no one knows what has done on the subject in the past period. It is an undeniable result whose positive effects are already felt by all citizens and the key among them is the introduction of the Electronic Administration, and at several previous sessions we talked about various infrastructure equipment projects in the field of information communication technologies, i.e. the introduction of internet from schools to rural areas. The introduction of an electronic invoice as a mandatory way of invoiceing all transactions will make it as simple as possible, speed up and contribute primarily to optimization and procedures that the invoice process in the classical sense of the word implies. Electronic invoiceing becomes an obligation for all transactions taking place between public sector entities, between public and private sector entities and private sector entities, other than private entities which are taxpayers of income tax on their own account and taxpayers of corporate income tax that are classified in the category of voluntary users of electronic invoices. The introduction of an electronic invoice system improves transparency, first of all, of all public affairs, ensures visibility and verification of the broad circle of transactions, the way they are invoiced, and thus their charging, which is absolutely of general interest. Electronic invoices will contribute to strengthening legal certainty and there is no need to ignore the effect of simpler VAT accounting control. By prescribing the electronic recording obligation in the electronic invoice system, any obligation to charge additional value tax will become visible, which should contribute in the end line to increasing performance, in particular to the collection of taxes. As I have also said in the opening part, in this bill my colleagues will also speak from the parliamentary group, I will move to the draft law amending the Law on the terms of the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions that is changing because of the need for the time period from which the legal obligation of electronic invoices under this law begins to comply with the deadline prescribed by the new proposal of the Law on Electronic Purchases and that is somewhere, it seems to me, someone before me and said, this law actually, these two laws follow one another. The third law in this package to which I would pay the most attention is the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. In each developed society and developed economy, the insurance sector is one of the most important financial activities and is given great attention. Let's remind briefly what the insurance history is like for us to do business. The security of importance comes with the development of capitalism and the need to protect, i.e. to secure, firstly, property. Later on, it's also different life insurance models. At the same time, the activity of insurance is recognised as a profitable and promising financial activity, and insurance companies become owners of significant capital, which was often a good investment potential. Serbia has a rich tradition of insurance. The first written document mentioning insurance was also Dusan's 1349 Code, which envisions measures to secure assets from increased risk such as fire, robbery, intentional arson, so we can freely say that in the 14th century we had some kind of Insurance Act, and that is, you will all agree, much earlier today's more developed countries than we are. More recently in Serbia, the first domestic insurance facility was founded in 1897, titled "Belgrade Co-operation". After World War II, insurance went to state property, and the continuity of several insurance companies that had undergone a number of transformations since 1945 until today was characterized by one of the largest insurance companies in the region, which is the company "Dunav Insurance". In Serbia, the work of insurance today is a promising part of the financial sector, and its functioning and further development depends, above all, on the overall development of the economy, because the insurance depends on availability, above all, on the market funds for these purposes. Today, the growing economic development of Serbia allows greater space for the development of the insurance sector, which imposes the need for the current situation in this sector to be brought into line with the legal system as soon as possible, but also with the needs of the insurance market. For these very reasons, we are today discussing the need to amend the Insurance Act in the work relating to the transformation of property in our insurance companies, which is “Dunav Insurance” a.d.o., “Dunav Re” and “Triglav Insurance” a.d.o., company of insurance. Unfortunately, in all three insurance companies that are Serbia's major financial resource, above all "Dunav Insurance", the process of transforming social capital into other forms, which are recognised today by our Constitution, has not been completed. So, according to the available data, the majority package still accounts for social capital, almost 52%. In “Dunav Re” social capital accounts for 4,58% and in “Triglav” 0.12. All these companies have not completed a process that would establish an adequate property form that, in accordance with the Constitution, capital has become, above all, functional and ensure the smooth development of these companies. One of the factors that has a negative impact on the development of the insurance market is the very existence of social capital, above all, at the Danube Insurance, our largest insurance company on the market and since the application of the first Social Capital Transformation Act to other forms, through the Law on Privatisation and other regulations applied in this area, there have been more attempts to resolve the issues of equity of these three companies, but not sufficiently successful so far. The bill that is before us offers an optimal legal model that permanently resolves the open issue of social capital in insurance companies in a systematic and efficient way. This enables the elimination of inequalities on the market that social capital has brought to these insurance companies. What's most important right now is that the entire capital in these societies finally gets the titler, which increases transparency and, above all, responsibility in business. The law suggests that social capital in insurance companies is allocated as follows: 70% of social capital is transferred to the Republic of Serbia, up to 25% of social capital is transferred to employees without compensation, that is, so-called. Free shares that are named, and 5% of social capital are transferred to the stock fund. We consider this an economically rational but socially fair model of social capital transformation in the Danube Insurance and in the other two societies. I particularly believe that sharing free shares with employees and pensioners is a good solution. It reminded me of that original model of privatisation from the 1990s, which was a model of working stock by which all workers had the right to free action in their businesses. How fortunate if we had done it all the way, then after October 5th, the DOS would not have sold out companies for three euros each. It was a good way to warn what happened. Unfortunately, we failed. The fourth and not least important law of this set is the draft law on the register of administrative procedures governing the establishment, management, management, management, content, method of use of the register and other significant issues for its functioning. This electronic-led register can be seen as another example, first of all, of this digital transition that I have talked about and by contributing to public administration reform whose modernisation and digitisation are a necessary condition for effective and rational, first of all, the exercise of citizens' rights and businesses in front of public authorities. We used to have the biggest problems here. The registry is a unique centralised electronic guided record of all administrative procedures carried out in the Republic of Serbia and it should and must contribute to the standardisation of procedures, methodological harmonisation of practices and transparency above all in the management of administrative procedures, which is most important to facilitate their control. The final result should be a satisfied citizen who spent a lot of time on counters for once very complicated procedures. I think everyone's feeling a lot more relaxed now. This means that any interested party in a publicly available register will be able to monitor the movement of its case and administrative procedures to be applied in the process of resolving its case. It must contain accurate and up-to-date data on procedures in order to provide accurate and publicly available information on the procedures carried out by the authorities. This is very important, because it is in the exercise of the rights, obligations and legal interests of economic operators and citizens. In the end, we'll solve that famous problem. When the Register of Administrative Procedures is established, the People's Wing – another paper is missing – will finally, I believe, become the past. So, as I said at first, a very important set of laws ahead of us. The interest of my colleagues is great, I see it by the number of registered speakers, despite the fact that behind us is a big deal, because we also had a budget rebalance that we talked about, so we're a little out of strength. I will stress once again that the SPS Parliamentary Group will certainly support this set of laws, first of all because the proposed laws have been kept in mind and at the centre of interest was a citizen of Serbia as someone who needs to be made easier and improve the quality of life. This is always the reason to provide support for quality legal solutions and I am almost certain that there will be even more quality solutions of this type ahead of us and that in this mandate we will end at least this process of digitisation that does not last for a while and cannot last for a short time because it is complex. So, once again, we'll vote for the proposed laws. I thank you for your attention both to the Minister and to your associates.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5838	Thank you. For our children, the MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5839	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, with a set of these laws, the Republic of Serbia, its economy, public administration, and even certain companies of capital continue that reform process that was launched in 2014 during the first term of office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and now the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. If we think about it a little bit and try to remember the comments that were only three or four years ago that Serbia should go through digitisation using modern technologies primarily in the domain of public administration and later in business, and in this exposé that Mrs Ana Brnabic gave in the National Assembly, the former regime was in the harshest, most rude way to mock what the Republic of Serbia's strategy was. Whatever was then done, whatever was then proposed, whatever was put before the Government of the Republic of Serbia, before the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia by the former regime was ridiculed and ridiculed, and it seems to me that it was precisely the electronic business and manner of the electronic administration conducted by our public administration that seemed to me that they were the greatest object of ridicule probably because they didn't know or because they didn't know or because they didn't want to do it during their time. Today, in 2021, not only did we have those concrete administrative and bureaucratic benefits that were previously a major problem for our citizens, but it was seen now in the immunisation of how ready the Republic of Serbia was to start and effectively manage the process of immunisation of our citizens. The good part of this speed and efficiency is reflected in the fact that these certain reforms that were implemented back a few years have achieved a certain degree, I can say, and to be an example of a large part of the international community that you can be successful in an area where, in particular, Western technologies and Western countries have been considered dominant. As my esteemed colleagues Dabic said, it is with this bill of law and the application of the Law on electronic invoicery that the state will certainly ensure better tax collection, hence much more means to build roads, pre-school institutions, school institutions, health centres. That's important, but I'd definitely like to come up with another very important fact. By our constitution, all our citizens are completely equal. They have the same rights, same obligations, i.e. One of their obligations is that those who carry out certain activities and make certain incomes pay taxes. The current way of doing business required great efforts from various inspection services to curb the gray market because it seems to me that in some way of realizing that cheating on the state was something that was nice, attractive. Moreover, the former regime, by its actions and behaviour through its prominent businessmen, has given this incentive that an ordinary citizen does not care about the state and that it is simply the state that needs to be broken, to be robbed, to be destroyed, as if that same state were not necessary for our citizens. So it certainly is one of the laws that will bring certain benefits in that field. I can say that Serbia, at the end of the 20th century, was in many of these information technologies, I guess because of its way of doing business and a specific state arrangement, has been much ahead of many Western countries, especially when it comes to payment traffic. However, the former regime must have, in a desire not to leave any trace, or a serious trace of their financial and any other transactions, which were pillaged by citizens and businesses, destroyed that payment traffic, although with great effort we managed to restore it and put it into full function. But as far as this destruction went, I can say that during the global economic crisis that broke out in 2008, they slowed down financial transactions, under the pretext of affecting the foreign market and reducing the daily oscillation of our national currency compared to the euro. When you read it, or find out, you say, okay, they're doing something to protect us. That's not true. They did so to keep their businessmen, their tycoons very close to them, from having that small sector competition, which they destroyed by their business. We'll talk about it a little later when we get to one of these laws where only changes in law enforcement are now in line. Certainly, the Law on electronic invoices is one newspaper in the functioning of the Serbian economy, our public enterprises, and shows that the process we started in our country's digitisation gives first results and that only now should we continue one step forward on this issue. The second law, one of the laws we are discussing today, is the law on amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. It is said in the bill, it can be read, that one of the reasons why this law is passed is that so far our insurance company, or part of it, belongs to social capital. With the constitution of 2007, social capital has ceased to exist. Now the question arises, when we entered into the application of the new Constitution, why this form of property was not resolved. You know why, because social property can be in restructuring or privatisation. The former regime wanted to sell all our insurance companies, which is why it wasn't even executed, let's say, from social to state capital. Someone's gonna say, well, well, it's just insurance business, it's not just insurance business. You know, first of all, every company that gets the consent of our state authorities, including the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, which oversees the work of insurance companies, performs certain public powers. Insurance jobs are very important for businesses, security of property and the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But now there's another problem, and that's what with the funds and the money that the economy, the citizens, well, the state is also paying the insurance companies. There are quite advanced regulations in relation to the time of the government of the former regime, and the way these funds are provided is that one part of the funds go to cover the reserve for the payment of the insurance premium, and the other part has to be placed, either at a certain creditor's business bank, or in the government securities of value. Now, during the former regime, the revenues of all our state-owned insurance companies were placed as security at certain business banks, well, they even paid interest on keeping those funds, and these same funds were used to buy government securities of value, on which the commercial banks accounted for interest. So, the state has been paying interest to the corporate banks on the funds collected from government or social capital, call whatever you want. I can't blame the business banks here, because the business banks are doing what you allow them to do by law, or by sublegal acts, but I'm asking now a question -- whose and what was the financial motive, to allow insurance companies? What reasons were there for such behavior? You know, it seems a little crazy that you have the means, to pay those funds to the banks, and then, when you retire, you broadcast state records of interest value 22, 24, 26% on an annual basis, that same money of yours to you bank with that 24, 25, 26% interest on an annual basis. That's why they didn't convert capital. They were just waiting for a convenient moment to privatise all insurance companies in the Republic of Serbia. They came across little resistance when they tried to sell Telecom, so they hoped that the post-2012 elections would finish the job. That's the only thing that kept them from Alexander Wolf and SNS. Otherwise, we would no longer have our insurance companies, and those who would work here on the market, would place funds in line with their interest, not the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Now we come to one, many say technical detail, the technical law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions. Yes, the date only changes, the law on electronic invoices is in line with the Law, but look at the law was laid down in 2012. This was one of the first laws passed during the SNS government, and the reason is that several businesses in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have accumulated the capital of the largest number of our companies, businesses. You could no matter what you wrote on the invoice, no matter what contract you had, forced collection was impossible. They didn't give you any menus. If you'd sued them, you'd have waited two, three years for the first hearing to be scheduled. In order for businessmen who did business with tycoon companies, and I'll say who, who came back to their money, had to give up all the profits, eventually give up and do the substance in order to get their money back and pay off their liabilities that they made in business with tycoon companies. A man who had been spreading the red carpet during the former regime who boasted that he was the most successful businessman in the Republic of Serbia, that his company's worldwide company was Mr. Miskovic and the Delta Company. That's exactly what he was doing. Miskovic's "Delta" was the master of economic flows in Serbia, and its development was not due to the skills of its owner and employer and so many profits because they knew to find a job, but because they were close to the former regime now headed by Dragan Gilas. The form was very simple. Thanks to the very bad legislation, he established a monopoly on the market. Whether or not, every consumer producer in Serbia had to do business with Delta. Each importer of high-consumption goods had to operate with Delta. He could have written that the goods he was given were due, and the payment deadline in 30 days, 60 days, 120 days, 180 days, he'd get the money in three years. Until then, Miskovic will boast that he is a successful businessman by sucking on the substance of our economy, paving on his company. While the business she was doing business with him was in debt with foreign currency banks, he placed these same loans through these business banks with his business partners and with his business partners' money. And then you say you're successful. No, I call it a thief, a cheater, a hohstappler. There's no success here. You abuse the levers of power and closeness with the regime at the time and Dragan Gilas to become the richest man in Serbia, so that your courts can't do anything, that your means of forced collection can't do anything. You can't do that without being close to that regime. And that's how it was. And when you suck out all the capital, not only do you become richer, but you push all those businesses into the ruin you've been doing business with, I guess in the hope that someone else will come and you'll rob them again, that you'll take them away from them again. I guess he thought it would always go on like that. He was probably hoping that Aleksandar Vucic would agree to what Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas and the rest of the company agreed to. This law, the basic law passed in 2012, was passed because of companies operating as Delta Company and as Miskovic did. And that was the first sign that the state would no longer allow what was done by 2012. Then Miskovic restarts the entire machinery, with his money, to bring down Aleksandra Vukic and later joins Dragan Gilas. Because, you know, this isn't about tens of millions of euros, it's not about hundreds of millions of euros, it's about billions of euros. Billions taken from Serbian citizens, from Serbia's economy, from Serbia's state and ending in exotic areas, tax havens and everything else. Take a look at the privatisation of "Maxie". Wherever you read, you will see that Miskovic promises, except that they agreed it was the biggest investment in Serbia, it's not any investment, you're selling assets, what kind of investment, it's not new assets, it's probably new assets, it's been promised everywhere that the transaction was made with assets that are in Serbia and that taxes will be paid to the Republic of Serbia. Now I ask – how much is it paid? It's nothing. All the money was exported from the Republic of Serbia because allegedly the owners of the property were not Miskovic but some companies from those tax havens, Cyprus and the rest. Because of these, this law was passed, which determined that Delta could no longer be "Delta" or any other illegal one, without suffering any consequences, to retain someone's money without paying interest, and it happened in those years before 2012, that they had not paid anything, so just imagine, if the debt-confidential relationship occurred in 2008, the euro course was then 75 dinars, if paid in 2010, the euro course was already 105-110 dinars, now calculate the difference that Miskovic made in his pocket, and then says – we are successful, we are the engine of Serbia, what kind of engine Serbia, you have robbed Serbia, and what is worst, the former regime participated, the former regime has passed laws in this Assembly, that these gentlemen come under whatever measure of the law for all that is unfair, not only towards the state of Serbia. With a set of these laws we're making no longer possible for anyone to first hide their obligations to their creditors, that the state has no idea about it, that it does not enjoy the protection of the state and that, if, for others, it should be available and that one who commits such violations, abuses and responds, not only criminally, but also financially, which did not happen during the regime of Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5840	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since you are the same parliamentary group, you cannot replicate your colleague. You'll get two minutes after you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5841	I said, just one little addition, so that all this stuff my colleague puts out the press and that's what those who come after us learn. To solve all these problems that Mr. Arsic was talking about, there is one law missing in our system after these laws, which is the law on private property. We have the Public Property Act. The Law on Public Property defines state property when the subject is a republic. But there are after that provincial, municipal, etc. All of these relationships, all of this interference, all of this, all of it, wouldn't be if we clearly defined and passed a law on private property. I suggest that we think about it, and I think that this good bill will settle and ensure all of this, that not all of what Mr. Arsic was talking about is not going to happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5842	Thank you. Since no more than the authorised representatives or president of the parliamentary groups appear, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The first on the list of words has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5843	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. We have heard several times today about the importance of passing such laws, that we will warn business operators to be more efficient, and also more precisely, in the end that we will prevent many manipulative actions and corrupt, potential corruption, which have left room for unconscious businessmen and others who have abused the system and thus committed a major crime towards the state and citizens. What was particularly interesting to me here was about this Insurance Act. So, one good thing, i.e. around this division of state capital, where 25% is said to be obtained by current and former employees of these businesses. It reminded me of the time when we had those terrible privatisations that we had talked about before, when essentially the greatest injustice was done to workers, to those who created these economic entities and who had no opportunity to enjoy the fruits of what they had created for decades and generations. In fact, the authorities at the time destroyed the entire economy of the state, giants, humiliated the state apparatus, but much more destroyed and humiliated hundreds of thousands of workers who subdued their lives and their families' lives to the construction of these commercial giants. If there had been a fairer relationship, redistribution of that capital, many of these workers would have managed to regenerate their own lives and continue to live in a positive way, i.e. by seizing and transferring to other jobs. This is because of these many corrupt, poor privatisation decisions, and today we have workers of certain large giants who have failed to resolve their status precisely because of the lack of legal solutions at the time, who have left vacuums that their status is not resolved, that they simply do not get paid a large part of their earned monthly earnings, that their severances are not paid, that their working status is not connected and that they are actually rejected and reduced to the margins of social life. Perhaps this was a good example and a way to remind ourselves once again of the good workers of former gigants who remain in such a problem, whose successors are also victims of such a poor privatisation, which has completely destroyed society and led to inconceivable consequences. On this occasion, I appeal once again to the state authorities to find ways to help those workers of former gigans who have had these difficulties over and over again, such as the giants "Teka", "Raška", "Pik", "Pester", who have failed to complete their years of work, who have not solved their social status, who cannot even connect their work experience to make it to retirement, even though they have spent decades and decades of everyday work in these giants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5844	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5845	Thank you, Chairman. The respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, one of the deeply rooted opinions on the work of the public administration is the trombone, laziness, non-transparency, and the famous administrative saying "one more paper is missing" says so. Citizens generally complain about the inability to get acquainted with their law established by obligations and rights, and many businessmen express disdain over the times they have to spend on bureaucratic procedures. The parties are not even familiar with the rules as a legal basis for the conduct of the administrative procedure. Consequences are too much lost time and money to collect strong paperwork, then complete documents without a clear picture of what it all serves, and this leads to creating and a suitable climate for abuse of position and unclear procedure and complicates the work of the officers themselves. Therefore, the most important role is to establish a central register of administrative procedures, legal certainty and availability. The registry is a direct response to numerous remarks by the businessmen, and regarding the lack of information in which, within which time and by which procedures they can exercise some right. This electronic service will allow businesses and citizens to come to information faster and easier on obtaining permits, approvals, consent and solutions. The registry is a unique electronic record of procedures and administrative requirements for business in the Republic of Serbia. Publicity, availability, accuracy and urgency, coordination, accountability, simplicity are the basic principles on which the management of the register is based. This law proposes two key changes. The first refers to the establishment of the register itself and the way it works, and this is all necessary information regarding administrative procedures of importance for economic operators and citizens. The second key change concerns the control of procedures and the application of established methodological procedures, which will lead to greater efficiency, economics, the conduct of proceedings without delay and thus more effective application of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The development of e-business is a necessary step on the European pathway of the Republic of Serbia, as it significantly contributes to improving the business environment and reducing unnecessary costs and removing the system's trombone. In one place, all interested parties will be able in a simple and clear way to learn about the procedures and prescribed laws of the Republic of Serbia, and to obtain the necessary information on how to operate in Serbia. All the above is the general objective of passing laws, a safer, more transparent business environment, reducing costs and reducing the loss of valuable time. The Registrar, which will contain all relevant information on administrative procedures, will increase general information, which will positively affect uniformity in handling and uniformity, as well as increasing the responsibility of the competent authorities due to the control of their work, which will also lead to a reduction of the potential for corruption. The law does not contain restrictive measures for economic operators and citizens, as pointed out in the Bill's proposal, but imposes an obligation exclusively on state authorities. Permanent, continuous optimisation of administrative procedures is an incentive measure for businesses and citizens due to the facilitating process of access to relevant data and important legal acts. Only the establishment and functioning of the register is shown as the government's priority through an action plan for the implementation of the government's programme. As a central single database, and important data, and how it must be strictly guarded, secure, protected and secure. It stressed that the government services will therefore carry out professional tasks relating to the implementation of the protection measures and the provision of data security in the register. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, the most important change concerns the loss of social property in insurance companies. What is social property, and what is its legal meaning? Social property is the form of a non-proprietary holding of property, without the right holder, because it is the official title of the whole society. Although the 2006 Constitution still abolished the concept of social property, it still appears in the area of insurance and you in three companies: Danube a.d.o, Danube REa.d.o and Triglav Insurance, which put them in an unequal position with other societies. The insurance sector is certainly one of the most important financial factors in every developed economy, so these changes to the law finally resolve the issue of social capital in a systematic manner, with social capital transformed into action. This will replace a communist approach to the past economy with modern, corporate business, which is recognised everywhere in the world. The proposed solution will also have a positive impact on employees, as well as on all those who have spent their working life in these societies, as they will become owners of free shares, without prior privatisation of society, and with them they will be able to freely dispose of as their property. All of the above will certainly have a positive impact on both the capital market and the stock market, on investor interest, and on the growth of the price of the stock. Due to all the above-mentioned characteristics of the proposed laws that will contribute to creating a better business atmosphere, modernising the economy, the labour market and the transparency of work, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5846	I thank the MP Daniela Veljovic. The word is from the Vice-President of the Assembly, Parliament MP Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5847	I thank you, honored vice president, respected ministers, you will not mind me, before I move to today's agenda, I would like to refer to the presentation of my colleague, Starcevic, who said in his presentation that Mrs. Marinika Tepic would not say the names of the witnesses, asking the prosecution's guarantees that they testify via Skype or video link, but look, and then they must know the names of the witnesses, whether it's a Pera, Simo or anyone else. You know, the bottom line is second, and that's distracting the public, delaying the truth to come out, and all in order to get through the mud of Dragan Markovic Palma, but not for the purpose of protecting women, but for the purpose of personal promotion, or I can say maybe personal ambitions. Perhaps the lady sees herself as a future candidate for president of Serbia. But not to get into her ambitions and desires anymore, she said it all herself in yesterday's statement and yesterday's meeting in Jagodina, and I will now return to the agenda, since there are several important laws governing the space for the better and easier business and the business sector, as well as the citizens. First, I would refer to the proposal for a law on registering administrative procedures, as they further complement the electronic administration. Public administration employees will have insight into all procedures and other conditions of business thanks to the register, thus facilitating the work of the state administration, ensuring integration, communication and digitisation of different institutions. Practically, this means that in one place we can get all the information on the administrative procedures important for business, both at the republic and at the province level. Time savings are certainly the most significant, especially for economic operators who want to move from one part to another. The most important thing here was the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that had no opportunity to have legal services, and I have to take advantage of the opportunity to think about small and medium-sized enterprises through a series of regulations in co-operation with Serbia's Development Agency, the Employment Agency. It is planned to organise a number of financial programmes in 2021, as well as training services, and all in order to better support such companies. It is estimated that the value of investments in small and medium-sized enterprises in 2021 will be up to 9.2 billion dinars and I am particularly pleased that the support programme also applies to development projects for women entrepreneurs, young people and we are one of the few countries that can be praised by the introduction of gender-responsible budgeting. As I said, in addition to all the reliefs seen in easier administrative procedures, it is also commendable that the state has shown an understanding of the state of business since the beginning of the crisis. It has been announced through budget rebalances and assistance to caterers and autocarers, and it seems to me that they have suffered the greatest burden of the crisis. The measures taken financially are entirely within the scope of what the real possibilities of the state are. Certainly for businesses, it means infrastructure and as an MP coming from the Raška area, it is good that the president of Serbia announced several times before that the Moravia Corridor will be completed in three years, as there are many small and medium-sized enterprises on the move from Pojata to Preljina, according to an estimate and several thousand, and it is gravitating a large number of people. So, the Republic of Serbia is trying to help the economy in line with the situation that has hit not only Serbia, but the whole world, and with real opportunities. As regards the Register of Administrative Procedures, the ultimate objective is to ensure that administrative procedures are optimised and that they are performed by electronic means, which would say – from the armchair, transparency and availability of all administrative procedures, save time, and that the old mailmaker: “You miss one piece of paper” and the walk from the counter to the counter finally goes into oblivion. Serbia has done a lot in public administration reform over the past few years, and this is one of the two key conditions for joining the European Union. Through this we show willingness to create new good business environments, facilitate the work of public administration and institutions and certainly greater transparency of services that are the basis for the functioning of a single state. One of the points on today's agenda is electronic invoices because the electronic invoice will make it faster to pay, but also to suppress the gray economy, because it helps control tax collection. The introduction of electronic invoices is necessary because with the growth of the global economy, new services are being launched on the market, and it is estimated that the global amount of invoices in the world is around 550 billion a year, of which the digital invoices account for as much as 10%. Many Central European countries, the Nordic countries have more and more launched the development of services in recent years, standardising and strengthening legal support for the electronic issue of invoices. When we talk about the proposed law, we heard that during the preparation of this law, various questions were raised whether electronic invoices would lead to higher costs, but the minister stressed at the beginning of his today's presentation that the use of the electronic invoice system is free of charge and will therefore not generate costs for its users. This is one system change, and in conversation with the businessmen, and during the public hearing, we have come up with this harmonised bill amending the law. The use of electronic invoices saves time we spent on saving and applying invoices in paper form, but it will certainly be much easier to search electronic invoices than to search paper and search paper. We've all been in a situation where we need to find an account or an invoice and just go crazy in a paper break, now it's going to be a lot easier, and literally one click and we'll find everything we need. Without further ado, certainly the intention to facilitate business and improve the administration will have the support of the Single Serbia. In voting day, we will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5848	Thank you. The remaining time for a colleague is about three minutes. The word is Nandor Kish.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5849	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman. Dear government associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my presentation, I would like to refer more to the Law on Electronic Exclusion. This law regulates the issue, sending, reception, processing, storage, content and elements of electronic invoices, in transactions between the public sector, between public and private sector entities, or between private sector entities. I think it's very important that what I'm about to say, and these are some deadlines to make something both enforceable and transparent, we felt that we had to introduce a phase, or that in this law we had to provide for certain steps that would allow the public sector and the economy to gradually enter this system, that this would not be stressful for the public sector or for the private sector, that we would try to have a stable system, an operational system that would be one step at a time more functional and functional. The three dates are significant, on 1 January 2022 – a public sector obligation is established to receive and maintain, as well as an obligation to issue an electronic invoice to another public sector entity, as well as a private sector obligation to issue an electronic invoice to a public sector entity; on 1 July 2022 – a private sector obligation to receive and store an invoice issued by the public sector, as well as an electronic invoice issued by private sector entities and on 1 January 2023 – an obligation to issue and store an electronic invoice on transactions between private sector entities. So we have some period that will allow all these participants to slowly enter the system, monitor the development of the system and try, as I said, to make it more efficient and better. All this is the result, in fact, of what is the goal of all of this, in addition to what both the President of the Assembly and the President of the Committee have stated is that our economy is more operational, that business is easier, that there is as little cost as possible, that the liquids of the European directives are implemented and that we are trying to follow all of these trends that are emerging in the environment, because if we are not in the context of this and we are not ready and operational, I am afraid there will be additional problems. All of this in the environment says that these systems have to be introduced and that this is one way to speed up business flows. What I considered very important was the cost reduction in the whole process, because we will essentially slowly throw out everything that applies to paper. It's a huge cost for the economy, it's slowed down the system, we have a loss of time, in efficiency, and we need to protect the environment. So, with a little upgrade of the existing systems and a little better monitoring of all these deadlines, we think we'll have one stable and good system since 2023. What was the Ministry of Finance's intensities both in fiscalization and in this invoice is that basic principles are framed, the fundamental element is in the law, and that certain sublaws define what is technique and what we need to implement. We have a six-month deadline here to bring in the proper sublaws. It's that using the electronic invoice system will be free of charge. What's a state system and what's a resource and a state, what's the Ministry of Finance and what's going to be in the State Data Center, is absolutely free, so there's no cost. The State will place all its resources at the service and the economy and all the entities that will be in the system. The question arises by hiring information intermediaries, that's the thing you'll see, which your colleagues will later explain to you, they're being introduced, but it's not an obligation. It's absolutely not that the subject has no obligation to hire them, nor that he creates additional costs for himself. It's a matter of selecting every subject, whether he wants or needs to hire someone, as well as in any other business, to help him clear this system to the end. He can hire him for some extra activity, but it's not a matter that the law and we're going to impose on economic operators, but we're leaving the possibility that they can assess for themselves whether their work is necessary, how much they need it. They will regulate their obligations with a contract, the state does not impose any obligation, it does not have to be the cost of the economy, i.e. the matter of their choice. Public sector entities, therefore, have transactions with each other and transactions with private sector entities, they are covered by this law and also with voluntary users of electronic invoice systems, which are actually in exactly the same position as private sector entities, except that they voluntarily access this system, but once they are voluntarily accessing this system, they are in exactly the same position as private sector entities. When we talk about public sector entities, these are all our subjects that belong to the so-called. General level in countries and public enterprises. Private sector entities are all VAT bonds, of course, which are not public sector entities, and when we talk about voluntary users of the electronic invoice system, these are income tax bonds of autonomous activity, i.e. entrepreneurs and corporate taxpayers, which are not taxpayers of value added tax. These voluntary users of the electronic invoice system, they practically opt to use the electronic invoice system, so that by law provided for by legal acts, a clear defined way, the system of electronic invoices is accessed. So as soon as they access the electronic invoice system, once they release the invoice, they basically get status, or are treated the same way as the entities and the private sector. Once they're addicted to using an electronic invoice system, that option lasts for the entire current year in which they've been relying on the next calendar year. This will, of course, be particularly important for those economic operators, so profit taxpayers who are not VAT bonds, who have business relations with the public sector, and cannot communicate with them in any other way, but to issue electronic invoices. These invoices shall be issued and sent in a structured format allowing for their complete electronic processing through an electronic invoice system. When we talk about persons who have obligations under the Law in electronic invoices, we can basically divide it into two of the most significant groups, although we have other obligations. This is, above all, the obligation to issue invoices, the obligation of public sector entities to their own transactions, private sector transactions and the private sector for public sector transactions and, of course, to voluntary users, as I have already said, where the rules relating to private sector entities are fully applied. In addition to this obligation relating to the issue of electronic invoices, we have one obligation provided for in Article 4 of the Law, which I think is very important that we have in mind, which is the obligation of electronic recording of VAT accounts. I think it's very important to understand what this obligation applies to. It refers to those cases where a particular person appears as an intermediary of the debtor in the VAT system. This means a case where certain VAT obligations can continue and VAT obligations are not made on the basis of transactions, on the basis of which an electronic invoice is issued. For example, such a transaction may arise if one of our obligors of VAT or a person who is not an obligor of VAT, an example of receiving a service from a foreign recipient abroad. In that case, it's going to be by the so-called. the reverse charge system, be obliged to account for VAT on the invoice, which it has received and to display the VAT there. Cases like this when a certain person appears as a tax debtor. The obligation created for them shall not be recorded through the very invoice issued in accordance with this law but will be recorded in the electronic invoice system for each transaction individually within the time limits provided for to submit VAT applications. When we talk about an electronic invoice, it is issued through a system of electronic invoices, which is practically between the two users of that system, which will enable the current delivery of the electronic invoice to another user and is scheduled to declare in the received invoice the recipient of the invoice within 15 days. Within that period, the recipient may accept or reject the invoice, and in the event that a recipient who is a public sector entity does not declare it within the specified time limit, such invoice will be considered accepted. This rule was introduced because we felt it necessary to introduce high financial discipline in the public sector and because the public sector can always ensure that there is a person available to deal with the reception of invoices and there would be no justification for giving any relief to the public sector. As regards the private sector, if within 15 days the recipient does not declare the invoice received, such an invoice will be re-delivered to him with an additional period of five days to declare the receipt of the invoice, with the fact that, if, within that additional period, the recipient of the invoice is not able to declare it, on the basis of the fact that the invoice was received, such an invoice will be considered rejected and, of course, the invoicer will have all the means available to collect his claim, as would I have on the basis of an existing system based on invoices which have not been accepted or have not been fulfilled on the basis of these issued invoices. I'd like to mention another question here, I think it's important, and that's the relationship between this law and the VAT law, because there have been a lot of questions during the public debate about what's going on with VAT, whether in any way they're changing this VAT-related law. The answer is denied. This law does not touch in any way the rules relating to VAT calculations, the recognition of VAT inputs, anything concerning VAT is not changed by the adoption of this law. The VAT rules remain completely intact by the adoption of this law, by, of course, providing much better records and the ability to control the fulfilment of VAT obligations, and by certainly creating a powerful means that will help to analyse the risk of tax evasion among certain taxpayers, facilitate control, shorten control procedures, which is certainly in the interest of establishing financial discipline. On the other hand, it is in the interest of the taxpayers themselves because all tax controls will be much better prepared than now and will last much shorter, so the bonds will waste much less time with these procedures. Finally, I would like to say that in the voting day, the SVM parliamentary group will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5850	Thank you. Since I don't want to interrupt your speech, I'd ask you to follow the time as long as possible, but we'll forgive Nandor for everything. You'll allow me so many private things to congratulate Nandor on his daughter's birth a few days ago. We continue, the word has been given by the president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5851	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, the respected representatives of the ministry, of course we join the congratulations of dear fellow Members, allow me before I move on to what are today the points of the agenda, an extremely important set of legislative proposals, to start with a single digression, a parallel and one comparison. You see, while in Brussels, the president of the state is leading one of the most important and important battles for Serbia's future, for every citizen of Serbia, while we are in Parliament intensively and dynamically discussing the very important and important legislative proposals that need to help the economy, which should help the standard of living of citizens, the legal proposals that should help us finally overcome this period of pandemic caused by the coronal virus and take up a good starting position on the first day after that, you have that part, call the political elite, who calls itself political elite and who does not choose ways, does not choose the means to be present at all costs in the media and try to attract some political points. Politics and political performances of self-proclaimed opposition leaders continued during yesterday's day in Jagodina, with all the gathered party activists from different Serbian cities and, according to us, only to wish to put pressure on competent authorities and on competent institutions. The question here is whether it is the modern democracy, the independent judiciary and the judiciary that this group advocates, from where the need to collect political points in this way, if indeed, reportedly show concern for the victims. If the victims were taken care of first, they would go with witnesses to the prosecutor, offer evidence, and not start a dirty campaign against Dragan Markovic Palma, just yesterday when great news for Serbian citizens arrives from Brussels. Obviously, disturbed above all, by Serbia's successes, especially after the diplomatic activities of the President of the Republic, and they no longer choose the way in which they try to cast a shadow on the clear and visible results of Serbia's European path, not choosing funds, I repeat that at all costs they are present in the public. What they do is not for politics, but for the authorities of which Dragan Markovic Palma has never run or hide. On the contrary, Dragan Markovic Palma first went to the Prosecutor's Office, showed documentation that makes it very clear that violence against women is being referred to by those who have the least moral right to do so. Apparently, some quasi politicians definitely don't realize that citizens have long recognized and properly assessed the policy that rests on the ground – the worse for Serbia, the better for us. As for today's debate, not diminishing the importance and importance of the remaining legislative proposals, but leaving room for other colleagues from the parliamentary group to speak with respect for the time of the parliamentary group, I will look back at one law, which is the Law on electronic invoicery, which should especially facilitate everyday work, to save time, to reduce business costs. So, by adopting this law on electronic invoicery, we're taking another step forward towards innovation, in the direction of digitisation, we're going in step with the latest I'd say business trends in the world. Thus, the law on electronic invoices paves the way for modern business that is fully in line with European practice. By introducing such legal solutions, Serbia becomes what we have long said it is, and that is, improving what we said it is, and that is a modern state. Government policy, defined by the exposé, confirms that modernization and change are an unconstitutional process in Serbia. I would like to remind you that digitisation was defined as the government's priority in 2017, and digitisation will certainly be the government's priority in the coming period. Serbia is recognised as one of the rare countries in Europe and the world, which has seen that digitisation is a trend that will completely, I would say, change the economy. When we talk about goals, it's very important that we always raise the scale, you know. This is important for Serbia's future, because we are talking about the future today. The task is always to set new tasks, to speed up Serbia, and you, Mr. Minister, as a athlete, know very well and can't wait to talk about the next topic, which is doping, because the results are not in great words, but in great effort, work, effort, and commitment, as both the president of the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia do. The adoption of the new accounting law, in October 2019, as well as the amendments to the law on the deadlines for the settlement of financial obligations on commercial transactions, and the adoption of the rules on the way and procedure for registering, recording and delivery of electronic invoices, formats of electronic invoices, as well as the way in which electronic invoices are accepted and rejected, therefore, the need for the adoption and the new law to regulate exactly the area of electronic invoices has arisen. I would remind you that last year we passed the Digital Property Act, as well as the Fiscalization Act, and today with the adoption of this law, we are completely changing the way our economy works. In addition to the creation of an electronic invoice law, a legal framework for harmonisation with EU regulations is created, which is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia, according to the SAA, to introduce it is also important for the future to function with companies located in the territory of EU member states. The electronic invoice law will systematically regulate this area of transmission, reception and storage of electronic invoices. They seek smaller administrative burdens which are very important, as well as improving transparency, and legal certainty establish visibility regarding a wide range of transactions between entities and the public sector, private and public sector entities, as well as private sector entities in the electronic invoice system. Using the electronic invoice system, it will be free of charge and the minister spoke about it in the opening presentation, thus not creating additional costs for its users, on the contrary, the benefits of applying this law are multiple, the introduction of electronic invoices contributes to the fight against the gray economy and the reduction of the tax gap and facilitates the control of the tax administration, and will also enable automatic return of VAT. This law will also allow time savings needed to work with invoices, as the need to issue and receive and store invoices in paper form disappears, this also contributes to the acceleration of business processes and user operations, as the search of electronic invoices requires less time than searching paper archives, of course. The reduction in the use of paper invoices allows the reduction of the space needed to store the documentation, and most importantly, the protection of the environment is improved. That the environment, one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, also proves that the recently adopted budget rebalance for 2021 has been allocated as many as 4 billion dinars for the ecology. The government will continue to carry out all activities aimed at improving the state of the environment. The practice of some European Union countries has shown that the introduction of electronic invoices reduces operational costs, errors, increased transparency and a positive impact on environmental protection. For example, Croatia has achieved a 350m-euro savings and, on the other hand, Greece loses four billion euros annually due to illegal invoices, which is some of the data that we have come up with. As I said before, the introduction of an e-facture will be absolutely free and this introduction will be phased out. First, as of 1 January 2022, public sector entities will be obliged to receive, issue e-factures among themselves, and a private sector that wants to work with public invoices will have the opportunity to be trained, to issue e-factures in the public sector. Then, from the half of next year, business operators will be able to receive invoices from the public and private sectors, and since January 2023, the entire private sector will be obliged to be qualified to receive and send invoices. Electronic invoices will be in one unique information system. In addition, mandatory elements normally contained by electronic invoices are also prescribed, as well as the fact that electronic invoices are issued through an electronic invoice system are considered to be executive. This is another one, therefore, as the minister said in the opening statement, a system law that gives us the opportunity to fight the gray economy, on the other hand, gives support to our businesses to increase their liquidity. By adopting this law, we regulate the market, we prevent crime in this area, we fight money laundering. The minister himself announced, and a new strategy for the fight against the grey economy is expected soon. Every percentage of the grey economy that passes into the legal process means more inflows than budget taxes, more money for hospitals, more money for roads, more money for infrastructure, more money for citizens' living standards. So today we're talking about Serbia's future. Serbia has shown that it is moving forward with innovation and I think Serbia's citizens will benefit greatly when it comes to this legal solution. Of course, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5852	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5853	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, these days we are discussing a set of economic laws and it is perfectly normal for the public, for parliament to debate and above all, to pay attention to the matter of the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget because it is normal, rebalancing, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia is the most significant legal and fiscal law that can be passed in one fiscal year. Today we are discussing the set, the continuation of economic laws, and today we are essentially talking about an electronic invoice. Relatively small law, 25 members. When you remove the opening and final members, 15 members. It would say a completely small, formal procedural law, but it's not like that. This time in the world will be remembered by the great disease and the start of the economic crisis. In Serbia, we will remember him by Alexander Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, who successfully struggled with accidents both in health and in the economy. We personally, each of us will remember the doctor who saved his life personally or members of his family, and the businessmen in Serbia will remember this time by the law on an electronic invoice because they will apply it. This assembly of parliament and the Ministry of Finance can be remembered precisely by this law, because this is border law, this is the border. When, after this law, a completely different mechanism of functioning in the area of application is applied, practically nothing will be the same after that. In 2017 we started with the Law on Electronic Document and other electronic laws that actually created the basis that today we can discuss the law on electronic invoices. Human civilization has changed and the need for this law is fundamentally stemming from technological changes that are inevitable. There was a change in civilization, progress, economic growth and development. With these economic changes, principles, rules and procedures have changed. The old ones are gone, the new ones are accepted. When you look at all this, then you realize that you have a special history, business and fiscal record today in the world. Over time, you had paper parchments, you had parchments, each of us who had a little longer business in the economy, and for a little longer there are years to remember the hills of paper that existed in some accounting and that were kept for years. The new law is the consequence of technological change above all, and it is necessary, but at the same time it is necessary, because there is no alternative, you cannot make a more modern and efficient economy, a more efficient economy if you do not adopt this law. When you look at this law, it actually consists of two processes. From one process that moves nothing and another process in which all changes are clear and visible. So, you're gonna have, you're gonna go, you're gonna sell your products, you're gonna do favors and you're gonna issue a invoice. On the other hand, you will buy products and services and receive a invoice. You'll have to keep that invoice, but not in paper anymore, but electronically and you'll have a permanent record. Of course it's quite clear that you're going to have cost-related effects, that you're going to have environmental effects, that you're going to have these effects in small, smallest, micro-enterprises, medium-sized enterprises, large enterprises and the state. It is very nice for the MP, for someone who exercises power and operates and runs the state of Serbia when he says that the state of Serbia is taking over all the costs of these changes. Practically, from the Law on Fiscal Change, Serbia takes a different position, respects its entrepreneurs, its business people, its economic environment and says – yes, we are taking all the costs of reform and change on ourselves. It wasn't like that, but it should be like that. The respect of businessmen is the essence of the Ministry of Finance and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Leaders and change leaders, that is the essence of the finance ministry, monitoring modern technological solutions, of course, a correct attitude towards fiscal residents, also clarity in functioning and transparency. Today, in this debate, in a debate in principle, in public debates, we have mostly heard about how we will have a series of advantages in terms of economics, efficiency, saving these laws. Of course that's what we need to talk about. It is undeniable that this will be the case, but the essential thing, Mr. Minister, which I want to say, these are key fiscal mechanisms, i.e. key fiscal weapons that will allow Serbian citizens to achieve cleaner, fairer and fairer economic revenues. At the same time, this is a key mechanism that will allow full control of the use of public funds at the level of the general state in all forms. When I say this, I mean hundreds of thousands, millions of bills that arrive at the Republic of Serbia's general budget at any moment. Thousands of bills from small businesses, large businesses, through public procurement, through other purchases. We'll have it all complex and systematized at one point at a time in a very short time. The way it looks, I'll just explain it. The state of Serbia, probably during the day, buys a 100,0000 glass of yogurt from kindergartens in a small town, a November home, large hospitals, large clinics. And we have a system of control today, and it can happen that these prices are different and it doesn't talk about corruption, it says that we actually have a problem somewhere, because we shouldn't have the prices that the state pays at different levels, because we have a clear, defined procurement procedure and clear legal solutions. This will be a mechanism that will clearly indicate that we have a problem or that we do not have it in business, perhaps not in corruption. This law is the perfect system for the public. Of course, we should put aside all those invoices that come from the private business sector, their secrecy must be guaranteed because these are important business decisions, but every papri, any information relating to the public sector and the co-operation of the private and public sector must be fully transparent at the level of any invoice that is issued. Perhaps not today, perhaps tomorrow, perhaps the day after tomorrow, perhaps not all today, but in some future time period, none of Serbia's citizens should be denied the right to come very easily to the information and look at how much each dinar spent from public funds is because we, Serbian citizens, are paying those funds. With the fiscal change law, and maybe 99% of the public doesn't see it, with the fiscal change and fiscalization law, this e-booking law creates an insurmountable obstacle to every tax issue at the moment. When you connect these two laws, in fact, you get trouble. It's likely that in some subsequent time periods, another mechanism will be found in years, but at this point it doesn't seem like there's a mechanism for how you can do the tax ejaculation. When you bring these two laws together, you get what we want, a different operating system. A brief and clear law, fast and modern, fiscally fully acceptable, transparent dream we dreamed, a law that has a systemic character and a law that is cheap. Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, some of us believe that real and best things are in the economy when they're simple. This is a very simple but very strong economic law, which perhaps more than the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2021 changes the functioning of Serbia's economy and economy. Dear Minister, it is a real pleasure to pass such a reform law and to give us a chance to vote for it. And let me remind you that today we are still in a time of economic crisis and pandemic crisis. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5854	I thank the MP Goran Kovacevic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5855	I thank you, Vice President of the Assembly. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished ministers, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly I represent the United Peasant Party, and I was selected from the SNS list Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. I will, as I have done so far, say in the beginning about all those things, because I have always supported all the bill proposals concerning the development and progress of our country of Serbia, with a special emphasis on areas with difficult living conditions, in undeveloped areas, in areas of southeastern Serbia, where there are a lot of problems, but we are slowly solving these problems in the way it can and how it allows the situation. As far as this law is concerned, specifically, electronic invoices, it's one of the great things we're talking about right now, which we're going to be working on, because this way we have the opportunity to make it easier for all economic operators to function, to make it better and faster, and that it costs less. Now I'm going to say a few things specifically, because I'm going to vote for this bill, but I'm going to put an accent on something about our small producers, agricultural producers, who will be obliged to go through this electronic invoice program, that they too must have the opportunity to function, as we heard, from January 1, 2023, that will come and be mandatory for everyone. Otherwise, the big problem of our small local self-government in southeastern Serbia, and in other parts, where there is no Internet coverage, where tomorrow our agricultural producers are not educated, they will not know. We have to work together, give them the opportunity to learn and secure online coverage in every place, so that these people are not damaged tomorrow because they may not be able to provide the possibility of electronic invoices and they will be able to bear certain sanctions tomorrow. Let's say, for example, the Srlig municipality, there's a large number of villages that don't have internet coverage. There are representatives from the Black Grass with us. Whether Crna Trava has internet coverage everywhere, and whether people from Crna Trava tomorrow, there is Professor Ljubisa Stoimirović, who may know whether people who are agricultural producers in Crno Trava don't have internet coverage, tomorrow that they can send it and that tomorrow provide themselves with the possibility of doing it as well as other people and business entities who can do it, have internet coverage, are young, know. That means economic operators. I support that, I'll vote for this law, but I'm putting an accent on agricultural producers where they don't have the possibility of online coverage. Such areas are mountainous and mountainous areas. Normally, these people, some people, they're not educated, they don't know how to do it that way. Therefore, I would call on the Ministry of Finance to find within this a possibility for those people who do not have internet coverage, to bring the internet here, to be able to work and, normally, education and that our agricultural holdings that will have needs and thus to invoice them electronically, that if they cannot, not be sanctioned, should they not be punished, because they are not guilty, and the great need is what I was saying. As an MP, I will support the proposals of all these laws. I think we should look into the future. The future is here now, that's what we're working on. I would once again invite all Serbian citizens to be vaccinated. It is not a point, but I call on everyone to be vaccinated, to get out of these problems as soon as possible, this pandemic, because, once again, Serbia is always in the first place and among the best. Here, today, and our President Vukic is in Pukovec, that is the part of our Serbia where re-treatment is done, and he wants to show by example how other people should do it. Thanks again. I'm calling on all the people who haven't been vaccinated to vaccinate. And, of course, I'll vote for the bill. Once again, I ask Professor Ljubiš Stojmirovic if they have problems with the Internet in Montenegro, and can these people in Crno Trava, agricultural producers, be able to pay these electronic invoices tomorrow, in a year, a year and a half? Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5856	Thank you, Milia. Just so you know, no matter what you say I'm sharp, I gave you two, three more minutes. I see MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic, probably a replica, has been reported, although she is in an affirmative context. All right, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5857	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is very easy to answer my colleague Milly's question. Normally, the Internet isn't something that's available to the vastness of the Black Grass, but I think that's the least of the problems. The laws on the agenda today are inevitable. It's something we have to do to keep up with Europe and the rest of the world. But there is something I would now take the opportunity to say what the state should do for Black grass and for similar places that are in these border areas and that are undeveloped. It's not just the Internet. There's no life there. The people are leaving, leaving those places. You have to make such an ambience that people go back there. You need to secure roads, you need to ensure that they have the ability to work and that they can make money. I hope, apart from these laws that we are about to adopt today, that the government will very quickly create an environment for people to return to those places and contribute to Serbia's overall development by their work. I don't want to mention how much Black Grass she gave for Serbia, how many excellent and athletes and artists and scientists. And it's time we didn't forget those little places. Minister, my proposal, try to rebuild the sports centres on Lake Vlassin, where all our representatives used to go on preparations, because the conditions there are phenomenal for preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5858	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5859	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that I have limited time, I would refer only to the e-booking law. I'd go right now, what he's bringing, which benefits a new way of invoiceing, i.e. Electronic invoices. First, one of the most important positive effects of introducing electronic invoices is high level of automation. In fact, human factor participation is down to a minimum, so the possibility of errors would also fall to a minimum. So we have a complete removal of the need for individual individuals throughout the process of preparing, processing and archiving electronic invoices. Second, saving time and money. As for money, savings are evident, because if we look at traditional invoices, which were on paper, then the savings in, first of all, the price of paper, secondly, the cost of printing, the cost of mailing, and when we know that we have a hand-packing when sending or receiving and reviewing and approval of invoices are made by certain natural persons, as well as the input of data into ERP systems, we see that it costs all and that it is an recorded savings. Additional financial savings are generated by the fact that when electronic invoices are issued, sent and archived, there is no cost of transport, as this is the case when transport is electronic. As for saving time, it's unquestionable, whenever we talk about digitization. In this case, in the process of sending and delivering electronic invoices, we see that the time period is almost instantaneous, and the time saving is completely evident. And if you need to correct errors, which are inevitable, or search and find certain archived invoices, the time savings are exponential. When searching such archived documents, there is a high probability that many are lost, lost, or otherwise found in this paper mass. The electronic invoice contributes to the security of the entire invoice process, as it reduces the risk of losing the document. So far, all that paper-shaped material had to be stored somewhere, so the space was growing from year to year, and when it was an electronic invoice, there was no problem. When we talk about paper and its adulation, or transition to electronic form, of course there are additional positive elements that are related to environmental protection. In fact, as the paper is obtained from wood, this way we reduce a certain number of trees that are not even small. It is estimated that it takes 12 million trees to cut for 30 billion invoices, as they use annually in Europe. In addition to cutting trees, carbon dioxide emissions are reduced due to reduced transport and the production of paper itself. It also reduces the amount of solid waste created. So, in addition to reducing the costs and time and other positive elements that I was talking about today, this law will also give us increased VAT charges, more effective tax control, reduction of administrative burden due to the processing of invoices, acceleration of business processes, automation of invoice processing and the above-mentioned JS parliamentary group will support these laws in the voting day. In the end, I would also like to join the discussions of my colleagues from the JS parliamentary group and the SPS on the current situation, i.e. The attack on JS President Dragan Markovic Palma, and I particularly support everything he said in the past few days, is President Dragan Markovic Palm's responsibility for the charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5860	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. I join the Kish family congratulations. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5861	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected ministers with co-operation, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, in this meeting, the National Assembly has been working very dynamically and for only eight months since the constitution has been adopted over 170 acts, of which there are as many as 82 laws, which is a confirmation of the responsible relationship of the legislative branch of power towards our citizens whose representatives we are. In that sense, I would also like to thank the President of the National Assembly who has given new dynamics to Parliament and fellow Members. And today we have a four-law package that also improves the legislative space of our country. I would talk about two laws, which represent a continuation of digitisation which has been one of the priorities and strategic objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for years and is implemented in all sectors of society. I would mention, as well as my colleagues, that one of the most visible results of digitisation is the electronic administration, and this project has been launched and largely implemented by the previous state administration and local self-government minister, Mr Branko Ruzic. The legislative proposals on the agenda today, in particular the Law on electronic invoices, are largely adapted to the digitalisation process. An electronic invoice obligation shall be introduced for all commercial transactions, i.e. executive traffic of goods, services or other goods. The electronic invoice is transmitted from the issuer to the recipient without the physical form of the invoice and the document is essential for trading partners, accounting and tax authorities. The benefits of electronic invoices are, above all, transparency, faster payment, greater efficiency and legal certainty, as well as curbing the gray economy. This enables effective tax control. The obligation of electronic invoices will apply to all taxpayers in the value added tax system, which are public and private sector entities. According to the above, we can view electronic invoices as part of electronic business. One of the modern business models of many companies today is the concept of social responsibility, leading to the development of awareness of the need to protect the environment. Here I think, first of all, we have to cut the trees for the paper we use to produce. So we can say that electronic invoices will protect our forests. This way of doing business is expected to bring numerous benefits and reliefs in the procedure itself, as by electronic fact, the possibility of human error will come to a minimum and will allow better control of accounting bookkeeping. As a socialist, I cannot help but notice another advantage of this law, which is a reduction in costs and much faster and easier business, which would allow a large number of companies, but also to the public sector, which would provide significant savings to frequent financial transactions. The second law directly related to digitisation is the draft law on the register of administrative procedures. This is a continuation of the modernisation of public administration, and so far, as I have already mentioned, we have achieved good results, established and launched many services. In this context, the 2018 Electronic Administration Act is very important, which is the basic legal framework for the realization of further normative but practical steps in the digitalisation sector. It has already been shown that the use of new technologies facilitates communication between citizens and administrations, changes the way public services are provided, and citizens can do their jobs faster, more efficiently, cheaper. The establishment of a register of administrative procedures is precisely the aim of enabling citizens to exercise their rights more quickly before public authorities, local self-government authorities, public undertakings and other bodies and organisations with public authority. We have spoken many times that the administration is a mirror of every state. The register of administrative procedures will be conducted in electronic form and will contain an inventory of all possible administrative procedures conducted in the Republic of Serbia. The Registrar shall ensure transparency of each procedure and insight into the course of the case by the competent authorities of the administrative procedure, up to the fact that the official is personally in charge of a particular case. The registry is publicly available to all interested citizens who can monitor the course of their submissions without having to go to various counters and receive different information about their case. It is precisely one of the great advantages of this register that systematicisation of procedures and methodological unification of practices will be so that public authorities would not act differently in different environments or bodies to achieve one same right. The electronic management register will reduce precisely those differences that often arise from different interpretations of a certain requirement for citizens or businesses or insufficient expertise. The registry is given importance due to a large number of administrative procedures, a large number of citizens and economic operators leading different administrative procedures before public authorities. These numbers were, in addition, one of the reasons for the slow administration, which was covered by the requirements in paper form, until the introduction of the electronic administration. Now this picture is gradually changing and the administration is becoming efficient, and citizens are more satisfied that on one counter or via an electronic portal, and now through the new register of administrative procedures they can exercise their rights. In order for citizens to have information on administrative procedures, I would like to list some of those that will be united in the electronic register of administrative procedures and that will be constantly updated. These are procedures for obtaining different documents, documents, official and personal, such as: solutions, credentials, certificates, licences, licences, authorisations, opinions, notices, testimonies, conditions, declaration, records, copies of official records and a number of other documents. The establishment of a register will contribute to greater legal certainty and thus strengthen the rule of law, given that information on administrative procedures will at any time be in accordance with the applicable rules. Also, this ensures uniformity in conduct, and citizens and businesses will at any moment have insight into documentation, patterns, taxis and fees. We believe that these laws contribute to strengthening the rule of law and effective state and reducing costs, when it comes to electronic invoices and when it comes to the register of administrative procedures, so that in the day of voting we will support all proposals of the laws in this search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5862	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm setting a regular break and we'll be back to work at 15.05 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has the People's Messenger Velibor Milojicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5864	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, the proposal for an electronic invoice law is a special law defining the electronic invoice by the next best practice applied by EU countries. It defines the obligation of the phase process to switch to electronic invoices in transactions between public sector entities, between private sector entities, or between public and private sector entities. The introduction of electronic invoices was announced by the government's 2021 work plan, and several public policy documents are mentioned. The introduction of electronic invoices has multiple meanings for both the public sector and the state and the private sector. On the one hand, the introduction of electronic invoices is necessary in order to harmonise the rules of the Republic of Serbia with the legal assets of the EU, which is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. More importantly, the introduction of electronic invoices contributes to the further fight against the gray economy, reduces the possibility of corruption, facilitates the work of the tax administration, enables greater legal certainty and better enforcement of the contract, which, when fully implemented, will result in an increased charge of value added tax. In particular, it should be pointed out that improving and protecting the environment through reducing the cost of issuing paper invoices. On the other hand, the importance of introducing an electronic invoice for the private sector is seen primarily through costs and time savings during the processing of electronic invoices, increasing efficiency through high level of automation and increasing competitiveness as a certainty in business. The proposal for a law on electronic invoices is intended exclusively for value-added taxpayers, while other private sector entities are given the opportunity to volunteer for the issue of electronic invoices. Following the end of the public debate on the draft law, the ministry considered and accepted objections, primarily from the private sector, which concerned relatively short deadlines for the start of application, so that the application of the law would take place in three stages. Since 1 January 2022, the obligation to receive and store electronic invoices, as well as the obligation to register value added tax, have public sector entities, while private sector entities have an obligation to issue electronic invoices to the public sector. In the second phase of July 2nd, 2022, the obligation of private sector entities to receive and maintain public sector entities' electronic invoices, as well as private sector electronic invoices, takes effect. Finally, from 1 January 2023, provisions relating to the obligation to issue and store invoices between private sector entities are applied. What savings will be achieved by electronic invoices are best seen by reducing the cost of paper, printing, postage, hand-packing, reviewing and approval of invoices, archiving, handling and storage costs of around 145 dinars per invoice. At first, everyone would say – there is no savings, but if we know that in 2020, more than four million invoices were recorded in the Central Register, we come up with a figure of about five million euros per year of direct savings for economic operators. It is important to point out that using an electronic invoice system will be absolutely free to avoid creating additional costs for users. Only costs may be incurred by users if they decide to hire an information intermediary themselves. In that case, their relationship will be regulated by a special contract. The draft law also provides for the termination of the validity of certain members of the Accounting Act and the Law on the time limits for the settlement of monetary liabilities in commercial transactions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, and today I want to remind you of the situation in which Serbia was in when the responsibility for its leadership took over the SNS headed by President Aleksandar Vukic. The state was in front of bankruptcy. Pensions, public sector employees' salaries and other state contributions were questioned. Unemployment was at the historic maximum, which was expected because the previous government, decorated in Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bojan Pajtic, had other priorities. It was important for them to repack the money of the Serbian citizens into their own and the pockets of their close relatives and associates and to draw them away from various exotic destinations. The measures to save financial consolidation and introduce order into financial transactions were necessary in order for our children to have any chance of a normal life and a better future. All the benefits of their authority were felt on their skin by the citizens of the municipality of The Tower from which I came. In October 2012, when we took responsibility for the functioning of our municipality, the situation was catastrophic. The total debt we found exceeded 350 million dinars, which accounted for over 40% of the municipal budget. The drawers were filled with unidentified and unpaid invoices. For many years, it has been delayed with the payments of the rights of educators. We've found an industrial zone of 24 acres with 100 meters that doesn't lead anywhere and cows that feed on it. Nearly 6,000 unemployed were registered in the labour market at the end of 2012. In the period from 2012 to 2016 when the head of the government of the AP Vojvodina was Bojan Pajtic, and one of the best in the government of Marinika Tepic, the municipality of Kula was blacklisted for them. It's just that all our doors were closed. There was not a single project that they supported. Fortunately, with the unreserved support of the Prime Minister and later the President of the Republic, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of Mrs Ana Brnabić, and since 2016 the Government of the AP Vojvodina headed by Mr Igor Mirovic, we have managed to fully equip the industrial zone. In November 2018, after 20 years of collapse and closure of factories in the municipality of Kula, in the presence of the President of the Republic, the company's "Fiorano" plant was launched. Today, three serious companies are operating in the industrial zone in The Tower, with over 800 employees, who are planning to expand their capacities and new employment. As a result of working together with the republican and province authorities, the number of unemployed in the municipality of Kula was halved for eight years and was 2,847 at the end of 2020. The adoption of this law will contribute to further strengthening public finances, increasing legal certainty and will allow for further growth of Serbia's economy, creating conditions for the implementation of all planned projects envisioned by the "Serbia 2025" programme. In the municipality of Kula, the Western Boška Management District in all of Bačka and Banat, we are particularly looking forward to the fact that the preparations for the construction of the fast road Bačka Breg-Nakovo, in the total length of 185km, run as planned. The citizens have already given the popular title, "The Smile of Vojvodina" because of the route that is being provided. Serbian citizens believe SNS and Alexander Vukic, and that is a fact that on-call critics cannot bear. Gilasu, Jeremic, Obradovic, Pajtic, Marinika and the company will not help that lies try to challenge the fact that Serbia is making unconstitutional progress, that we have become an example of both economic progress and improvement of citizens' standards and results in the fight against the crown of the virus. They are free of the unlimited amount of money they have, which they have stolen from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, free of the media space they have taken. They simply have only one problem, the citizens of Serbia don't trust them, because they have cheated on them countless times so far. I would like to congratulate you, Mr. Minister, on the successful management of Serbian finances in these difficult times, and of course I will support this bill in the day of voting with my fellow Members and colleagues from the Legislators' Group Alexander Vukic – For our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5865	Thank you. National MP Diana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5866	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, after the government passed the draft e-in invoice law and delivered it to the National Assembly, we also had the opportunity to attend the public hearing on the subject of this bill. I would like to highlight what the President of the Ivica Dacic National Assembly has said, on this occasion, that public hearings on various legislative proposals are extremely important and important, that we MPs get to know each other better and we decide more competently on the proposals that come before us. The proposal for this legal solution is to continue the total digitisation that is being carried out in our country and in a new unique way edits the system of electronic invoices. This change is something new, useful, and most importantly free of charge for all our businesses, and also realistically feasible in our legal and financial order. A significant step when it comes to the process of digitisation and innovation and what I particularly must stress is that this is also in line with business trends around the world, especially considering that every step we take today is also moving the border and the scale for our tomorrow's work. With this in mind, Serbia confirms to such legal solutions that it is a modern state, which aims at a more operational economy, and thus that we want our legislation to be adapted and aligned with the currents, i.e. EU standards and directives. The introduction of an electronic invoice system certainly has great advantages and multiple advantages for all economic operators, both public sector operators and private sector entities. What I would especially point out is that this legislation saves both time and money, through better control of the tax administration, preventing tax ejaculation, and economics by sending an electronic invoice at a cost-free time, avoiding the cost of printing paper documents, then converting, sending, mailing and all other costs of administration. And by the way, we have the same effects, even better, so it's going to be faster and better able to charge. Simply put, this law will speed up existing work processes, improve and modernise all business processes throughout our economy. The phase of introducing entities into this system is something that is also important, that is to gradually move on to this system. In particular, the date when public sector entities cross over, when private sector entities cross over, and I would particularly point out that the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has particularly respected all those suggestions where private sector entities have shown a desire to move the application of the Law on electronic invoices. In this way, there has been an extremely high degree of cooperation and understanding with the economy, and it is also open to the possibility that this period, which is between application and application of the Law on electronic invoicery, is actually a period that we will use for education, i.e. in communication with the economy better and more detailing how this new system works, which is especially necessary when it comes from one fixed and old system to a new system. What I would point out is that the section of the Bill that separates the adoption and refusal of an electronic invoice for public and private sector entities is that I believe that economic flows will be accelerated, and public sector entities will have to pay more attention to the deadlines for the settlement of monetary liabilities. Also, when analysing this Bill of Law, if we look at a comparative practice, we will see that the Proposer of the Law on Electronic Exclusion has decided on a decentralised system of the information intermediary, i.e. the service provider, which has proved to be an extremely good and correct decision to other countries. It is particularly important for future users, which we have had the opportunity to hear in public hearing, that there will be a so-called exit strategy, i.e. for every information intermediary in the event of inability to carry out the activity that in this case the central information intermediary will take over all the data of the information intermediary concerned. I especially point out this because it is important because it enables the business continuity of the entire system of operation of the electronic administration. In the end, I would just say that given that this bill has 25 members, we are told in public hearing that it will be more precise to settle technical matters by means of sublegal acts that will be passed within six months, I have no doubt that it will be quality legal acts that will, in a good way, regulate these technical matters, but thus create a legal and transparent system. Of course, I can't help but mention that compared to these advanced legal solutions, we must also make sure that each of our villages is covered by a telecommunications network as soon as possible so that our citizens living in rural areas, and that entrepreneurship can also benefit from the advantages, benefits of this system, as well as any other benefits and benefits of the 21st century. Given all this, this law, or the bill's proposal, is not just a normative framework, it is a strategic definition of our country. It is a clear and unequivocal path for faster and easier functioning and public administration, but also for our private sector. Thus, the goal that we seek is that through this legislative regulation, we are closer to achieving it. The Socialist Party of Serbia and our parliamentary group will support this bill in a voting day because we believe in its successful implementation. We believe in the significant benefits that the economy will have since the implementation of this law, and this is also important to keep up with the digital world, with developed countries, but also with new technologies, and in 2023, as the minister said, had a complete, good and stable system of electronic invoices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5867	Thank you. The word is Anna Belloica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5868	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, we have had many times in this high house to consider many laws, many agreements, proposals that are fundamental to further progress and the development of our country. Today, there is a set of laws on the agenda, including the Law on electronic invoices, which directly leads to the modernisation and modernisation of our economy and therefore is of paramount importance. The electronic invoice law applies primarily to the issue, processing, reception, sending, content and elements of certain electronic invoices exchanged between public sector entities, private sector entities, as well as between public and private sector entities. One of the main reasons for the adoption of the Law on electronic invoices is certainly to increase visibility, increase transparency, when we talk about transactions between the public and private sectors, and another reason is certainly to increase legal certainty and improve the consistency of the national legal framework. The realization of transparency is realized through the phased introduction of the obligation to issue electronic invoices, and certainly that so-called. the mandatory registration of VAT accounts in the electronic invoices system leads to better control, better insight, better tax collection and prevention of tax ejaculation. Dear colleagues, I don't need to remind you too much of what it means for a country to effectively charge its tax revenues. These tax revenues are also funded by new schools and new hospitals and roads, and current expenditures are financed, which is of great importance at this moment, because this also provides adequate health care and care for all our citizens. In this way, by introducing electronic invoices, numerous savings are achieved, and not only when we talk about money, but they are achieved and saved in time, because in this way the time needed to manipulate certain invoices is shortened, thus reducing the time it takes to find a particular invoice, now it's just a "click" that divides us from it, the introduction of electronic invoices also improves business processes, thus improving the situation when we talk about a marketing game, and ultimately leads to an increase in the efficiency of the public and private sector, which is, of course, the ultimate goal to which we aim. Based on the presentation of esteemed colleagues, we could see that the effects of this law are extremely positive, so in the voting day, together with my parliamentary group, I will accept this set of laws that we are discussing today. The set of laws on the agenda today shows that we continue to run one responsible policy, we continue to fight for a better quality of life for all our citizens, for a better standard of living, we continue to fight for new capital projects that will completely change the appearance and image of the Republic of Serbia. Unlike the previous regime, which for years not only destroyed the Serbian economy, but destroyed every average citizen in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we today take care of every man, every worker, we take care of every entrepreneur, every child in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you, respected citizens, that in 2011, the Republic of Serbia took one of the most unfavourable loans. So we're in debt under the most unfavourable conditions, by issuing a bond with an interest rate of 7.25%. And these debts, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we all pay back. I return them, and all of you, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, will return them, and you, honourable citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will return them to the future, all of our children. And that would probably not be such a big problem, if after such a loan for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there was not one big thing left. This money is not used for new schools, where children will gain new knowledge, is not used for new highways thanks to which they will actually attract new investors, thanks to which new jobs will be opened, not used for new hospitals, because we all know very well that during the former regime no single hospital has been restored, let alone a new one. The money, respected citizens, ended up in other people's pockets right at the moment when the pockets of the average citizen of the Republic of Serbia were completely empty. I'll remind you that it was a period when half a million people, half a million of our fathers and mothers were out of work, without being able to feed their children. Unlike that period, SNS continues to fight for a better quality of life, for a better standard of living, for every average citizen in the Republic of Serbia. And I can't help but mention what the esteemed minister said at the session when we discussed budget rebalancing, which is that by September 2021, the Republic of Serbia will have a third new Kovid hospital in Novi Sad. It will be a modernly equipped hospital, capacity up to 600 beds, thanks to which we will be able to provide our citizens with adequate healthcare and adequate healthcare, which is completely free of charge. In this way, we will become the only country in Europe that has managed to build three completely new hospitals in just a few months during this biggest global crisis. I have to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that thanks to our friends from the UAE, our friends from China have managed to arrange for the construction of a brand-new factory. It is a Sinofarm factory where Chinese vaccines will be produced, and that is the second in a row after the Russian vaccine to be produced in the Republic of Serbia. I should not particularly remind you of what this really means for our country, not only in economic terms, but also in health terms, what it means for the whole region and for the whole of Europe, I can say freely. Although Serbia today is in the largest investment cycle in the last few decades, regardless of what we are in the world's largest not only economic but also health crisis, we have managed to preserve the stability of our economy. We have preserved the value of dinars that did not change back for several years, we have preserved inflation levels, we have managed to maintain extensive measures of economic activity and not only to preserve this level of employment, but also to reduce the unemployment rate to a record low level, and what is also extremely significant is that we have managed to achieve the highest economic growth rate in Europe as a whole. The possibility of rest and rest is gone, because our children no longer have time to wait for a better and better future. So we continue to fight for them, to work, to build, to fight for every new success of our country, because every new success of the Republic of Serbia is a step towards a better, brighter, more modern future for all of our children. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5869	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nenad Krstic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5870	Thank you, President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, given that today is one of the very important laws on the agenda, an electronic invoice, which is a way to avoid, at this time of the epidemic, contacts between economic operators both in the public sector and in the economy itself. Such a law, in addition to saving money, is also a health character, since many will avoid the physical contacts of many employers, thereby reducing the possibility of infecting and leading to the normalisation of overall life in Serbia. Since we know that our president is running a campaign and allows every citizen to receive a vaccine so that he can save his own life and also reduce infection in the region, so that our economy can continue to work. In addition to the electronic signature that we had, the electronic invoice is just a way for faster flow of communication and information, which means that all economic operators will start from the public sector, which is also good for the first public sector to start with an electronic invoice, so that we don't learn about the economy, or that the economy doesn't have to be the first to bear the financial costs and method of invoiceing. First, the public sector will do so, which is commendable, and in the meantime, economic operators are slowly involved in the very cycle of electronic invoices, so that they can continue to work. I want to emphasise another very important fact, given that the electronic invoice will mean in many small businesses where the calculation and return of VAT will be done automatically, where they will not wait for their cycle of two, three months, given who has had a solution from the tax authority, where the very fast money they need, like a craft or whatever, that they can use to continue to advance and grow their production. Also, I come from southern Serbia, I know how much "small Schengen" means, which I repeat to our President Aleksandar Vukic has succeeded and acted, which is in force and I know how much along the rapid flow is reduced lines at the borders, and with this law we will find ways to invoice, reduce crowds, reduce personal contacts, and save money and time, because our economy will grow very quickly, as we have projection 2020-2025. We expect a profit of 950 euros, as our President Aleksandar Vukic said. It is evident that all parameters and indicators lead to this and these laws can only improve and improve the environment in which we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5871	Thank you, Mr. Cross. The word has an Ana Charapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5872	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, honourable citizens, distinguished fellow MPs, such as, as we had the opportunity to hear in the opening presentation by the minister, but also during today's debate by fellow Members of Parliament, the topic of today's debate is a set consisting of four draft laws in the area of finance. There are two completely new laws, and this is the proposal for a law on electronic invoices and a proposal for a law on registering administrative procedures, and we have two draft laws, where we have amendments and additions to existing legal solutions in order to improve them, and this is the proposal for a law amending the Law on the time limits for the settlement of monetary obligations in commercial transactions and the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. I can freely say that all four bill proposals are very good. The application of the law in practice will allow for improved business, both in the private and public sectors. During my presentation, I will refer to the proposal for an electronic invoice law. First of all, I will remind you that in December, Prime Minister Mrs Ana Brnabic announced an electronic invoice law as part of the government plan for the Republic of Serbia for 2021. We all know very well when the Prime Minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic or the President of the Republic, Mr Aleksandar Vukic promises something, they do so as soon as possible. Only after four months of the announcement of the Law on Electronic Purchases, we are practically one step away from its adoption. Why is this law really important for the citizens and for the economy? All of us during the course of the epidemic have become aware of the importance of digitization and electronic administration. In terms of our limited movement, and with one single goal, in order to preserve our own lives and lives of people around us, we were practically able to do everything from home thanks to precisely digitization and thanks to the exact electronic administration. Here I primarily think of the e-recept, where citizens do not have the obligation to pay for participation when issuing a prescription, have no obligation to go to the competent health homes by prescription for regular therapy, but today everything is done automatically. Also, I think of an e-turner, where parents don't have to go to kindergartens to register their children, they do everything online, so they do it from home. I also think of the e-baby service, where parents literally need 15 minutes from the birth of a child to enroll their child in the birth certificate, apply for social and health insurance, with the solution of the parental allowance and the health book practically arriving at the home address. Also, during the course of the epidemic, citizens were able to schedule a term for PCR testing, and they can do it now because it still takes an epidemic, right, to schedule a term for PCR testing through the e-Government portal, to opt for the desired vaccine. Also, via the eGovernment portal, citizens apply for payment of one-off cash aid, 100 euros last year, another 60 euros this year, citizens will be able to apply for an additional 60 euros through the eGovernment portal, starting from April 28th to May 15th. I think we all understand what digitization really means and what electronic administration really means. Saves us time and money, saves us health and the environment. It has been estimated that more than 180 million sheets of paper have been saved since SNS came to power, i.e. from implementing the digitisation measures in Serbia. Imagine how many trees it was. It is precisely the proposal for a law on electronic invoices that will contribute to time savings, in money, but also to reduce the emissions of harmful gases, primarily to carbon dioxide. In order for citizens to have a sense of the amount of savings, I'm going to make an example. Over 13 billion invoices are supposed to be issued annually in Europe. That's over 12 million trees. Imagine what kind of savings it is. In addition to rebalancing the 2021 budget, we have identified three times more money to address environmental problems, so for the realisation of infrastructure projects in the area of environmental protection, the government and through other legal solutions is concerned about the conservation of the environment, and this is the only way towards sustainable development. While the previous government has put out the best organised institutions in the country for one reason, so that no one can control the theft, I mean here the Social Accounting Service, which was brutally shut down in 2001, and since then, in Serbia, they've been moving to conduct robbery privatisations, and the money of Serbian citizens, primarily I mean contributions, profits and taxes, instead of ending up in the accounts of the PIO or the Health Insurance Fund, that money ended up in private accounts in Switzerland, Luxembourg, Mauritius or who knows where. However, the arrival of SNS on the power and arrival of Aleksandr Vukic as Prime Minister has established control over the billing and collection of taxes and contributions to earnings, and this is the establishment of a system of united collection, so that workers are fully protected, and the Tax Administration, the PIO Fund, the Health Insurance Fund records a huge increase in income based on taxes and contributions. And it is not only the cause and result of the increase in income on the accounts of the PIO and the Health Insurance Fund, but the huge number of factories that Alexander Vukic has just opened. Alexander Vukic himself has opened over 230 factories, and more than 400,000 new jobs have been opened in Serbia since 2015. So Serbia is no longer the unsettled and thieving state it was until 2012. What I'm going to say when it comes to the draft law on electronic invoices is that there is no better way to curb the gray economy than digitisation, there is no better way to control tax collection than digitisation, nor is there a better way to attract both domestic and foreign investors than legal certainty. Just what I was talking about was contained in the proposal for an electronic invoice bill. Also, the proposal for the Law on electronic invoices is part of the National Programme for the control of the gray economy and the application of the law in practice will allow for a better collection of tax revenues, as well as a reduction of the risk of tax ejaculation. How much we are in step with the best in Europe is best shown that only 12 European Union member states, out of 28, have adopted a brand-new e-booking law. Serbia will have a completely new law from this area tomorrow. While during Tadic, Gilas, Jeremic, we were among the last in Europe, we were the worst in both Europe and the world, today we are in all economic parameters between the first and the first in Europe and the world. For the reason that every law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia allows for a better and better quality life for all citizens of our country, the MP group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children" will support all draft laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5873	Thank you, Mrs. Charpich. The word is Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5874	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us a set of legal solutions that will certainly help to further develop our country, develop a business environment and attract new investments. We had opportunities from my distinguished colleagues and colleagues to hear significant arguments in favour of these legal solutions. I'll make sure I don't repeat myself, but it's definitely something to brag about. When we talk about changes and additions to the Insurance Act, as the Honored Minister said, one big problem that we unfortunately had in the past, which is the social property that was prescribed, which is now being resolved by the new law that social property that exists in the insurance houses will be distributed and defined by what is the concrete ownership of the state, that up to 25% of these actions will be distributed to employees and former employees within these insurance houses, and that the rest will belong to the stock fund. What's very important to say is that this way we're going to put additional trust in all potential and current associates and people who are doing business with these insurance houses to continue and intensify their business, because behind those houses where the state capital is located, a clear signal is being sent that actually their investment and co-operation are absolutely safe. When we talk about the insurance market in Serbia, it is an important segment and development of the financial market, which will enable the collection of free financial resources, which will later be able to enter into the system through certain investments, and what the distinguished Mr. Minister said, it is important that we have people, or citizens who will be interested in becoming participants in the Belgrade Stock Exchange, which is also a great potential for the development of investments, but also one of the ways to invest. When we talk about the e-facturing law, it is absolutely one of the most important legal solutions that is ahead of us, which primarily allows us to continue to work on compliance with European Union directives, which is a clear indication that we are as a country determined on that path, and we could see from the signals we received from Brussels after a meeting held by our President Aleksandar Vukic and the investment that the European Union will support in Serbia, which is primarily the railway infrastructure from Belgrade to Nis, across the border with Northern Macedonia, a clear signal that tells us that as a state, we will receive absolute support for all the efforts we make on the path of reform and further coordination, in order to become an equal partner and part of the European Union. This law itself is very important because, above all, it will create an even better and more favourable environment for economic operators in their business, as we know and what my respected colleagues have said so far, so far, we have had to issue paper invoices that required a certain procedure, which also carried certain additional costs, through procurement, printing, archiving and keeping them, so that economic operators can also comply with legal regulations. The e-facture itself will enable this process to be significantly accelerated, communication between operators to be significantly more efficient, so when we talk about that process of accepting the invoice or, if there are certain errors, their corrections that will be corrected very quickly. What is very important to mention, which may not have been said by my colleagues, which is that although we have so far this system that records all these invoices that have been made with business entities, that within these e-factures they will work in the State Data Centre which is located in Kragujevac, which is one of the contemporary data centers, which is another proof that on this road and the digitalisation process we are very successful and that we are thinking a few steps ahead, because actually this given centre, which is extremely safe and secure when it comes to some threats that exist online, absolutely guarantees that all these data that are found there will be preserved and that they cannot be misused. When we talk about the efficiency of tax collection and registration, the absolutely e-facture will enable what the minister said when we talk about the VAT system, that it can be recorded much faster and more efficiently, to carry out the payment control and implementation of all these obligations that follow when it comes to value added tax obligations and, of course, it is something that will enable and raise labour efficiency and our Tax Administration. It's all these segments that we're talking about that are something that the businessmen have pointed to, and that absolutely says that this government, headed by Alexander Vukic, is absolutely working together with the people and the businesses, so that the environment continues to improve. What is very important to say, the minister has indicated, but it should be mentioned, that using these services, i.e. software solutions that will be absolutely free, that it will not burden the businessmen themselves and also what the law provides, are informative intermediaries, i.e. special persons who will be licensed by the state after meeting the conditions that will be prescribed by certain sublaws that will help me to implement the e-facturing process and their realisation is as effective as possible and as better as possible, which is absolutely another very good thing that the state itself thought of. Otherwise, I have had the opportunity to participate in a public debate when it comes to this law, that the law itself has passed all the important procedures and, as it has been pointed out to us, that over 150 participants have directly communicated with the Ministry in order for such solutions to occur, which actually speaks in favour of what I said, that this authority is a partner with all citizens and businessmen and that the solutions that come before us MPs are something that is absolutely in the interests of both economic operators and businessmen and will absolutely enable their successful implementation. Absolutely and the deadlines that are given when it comes to the introduction of the e-facturing system itself are in line with the opportunities that our businessmen have and will give enough space and time for me to successfully relive the system, as we had the opportunity to talk before that about the fiscalization law that similar measures had foreseen. The corrections that go under the Law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions actually follow all these segments that are very important, because they are also in line with the e-facturing law that is here. Finally, as another evidence of success, the implementation of the digitalisation process in Serbia is, in fact, the Law on Administrative Procedure, which aims to enable all procedures and administrative procedures to be transparent, that there is simply one effective system of recording, that the patterns by which these procedures will actually be implemented at certain levels of local self-government are unified and that in this way we also allow our citizens, besides other services, which Ana Čaapić, also spoke of, can be successfully followed by these segments. So this is another significant success that we as a state will achieve, and yet another way when we talk about ways to save funds, so here, this is an example for you, because this way and the implementation of procedures will significantly reduce the costs related to administrative procedures, we will have additional savings where we will be able to place these funds in other more important things for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia themselves. The same goes for the e-facturing processes, you will no longer have a huge cost of buying paper, printing them, delivering them, hitting the seals, etc. Their, of course, saving, determining the process where it will be stored, will already be done in a digital, or electronic format, and what is very important in this way is that we create an ambience so that we can do even more successfully with abroad, which is actually using this system quite backwards. Dear citizens, as you can see when it comes to the policy being implemented by the SNS, which is led by our President Alexander Vukic, that he is absolutely transparent, that he has just been directed towards the citizens, where citizens are absolutely able to give and how a significant contribution to the further development of our country, unlike the period of the yellow tycoon regime that hasn't changed anything since he went to the opposition, where in fact everything they do is secret, everything is somehow hidden and everything is somehow connected to certain exotic destinations, where exactly these financial assets have been exported from this country, were taken from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and are now going to go slowly to tourist tours to check that this prey still stands on those accounts, and I'm sure there are much more than we have managed to record, so that the Mauricias tour will find out some other destinations where these accounts are located. As I said in contrast to their period where a citizen of Belgrade was not allowed to approach the mayor at that time Dragan Gilas and to criticise his actions, and not to receive a certain threat after recording television, an insult, you today absolutely have the opportunity to approach each of the members of the Government and of the Members of the People's Parliament, including President Alexander Vukic, and point to the problem and what the opposition is saying and saying, well, someone is doing the job, so in fact we are doing here in the interest of the citizens and we want their problems that they are facing, which are not only their problems, but also certainly the problems of other people, that they are solving themselves, because in fact, as our slogan says, that our MP groups are for our children, so we are just solving these problems that we want to do something that our children might have a future, because unlike the previous regime, we are the problems that we are going to be able to carry on into the future generations, and yet to become more difficult. In the voting day absolutely as well as my fellow MPs from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support this set of laws because this set of laws is a very important step in the realization of the 2025 plan, which can only bring improvement to both us and future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5875	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5876	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected fellow MPs, until February 25th, a public debate took place this year on the draft of the law on electronic invoices. One of the benefits of electronic invoices is faster payment, as well as the suppression of the gray economy, because they help control tax collection. E-facture is a fully digital invoice, which is transmitted from an application i.e. the publisher on another application, it is a recipient, without physical form, e-facture will be mandatory only from 1 January 2022. You remember eRecepts, eRecepts at first were unknown, there may have been some mistakes, but now it's really a great thing that works impeccably. That's how I hope it's going to be with these e-books. The savings in time and money based on the transition to electronic invoices are permanent. The electronic invoice platform system will be opened, i.e. it will open a service that will be accessible to all users. There are always certain questions here. However, the way and procedure of registering for access to the system still needs to be arranged closer and it needs to be determined by sublegal acts. The electronic invoice was issued through a new system will be considered correct. All legal entities or entrepreneurs in the VAT system will be obliged to receive and send these invoices through the electronic invoice system, including the subsequent recording of those invoices sent or received outside the system. It is also planned to make access to the central system simple and sending and receiving electronic invoices through the system will be free of charge. There should also be a manual for the use of the platform, companies that have a small number of invoices and they will be able to directly enter into the electronic invoice system. From the corner of the economy itself, its use achieves efficiency, transparency and reduces the possibility of errors in the exchange and processing of data, and faster payment is achieved. The invoice will not be able to be registered, or charged unless it has been obtained in a manner regulated by law. If a company has a large number of invoices it will be able to upgrade its information system and thus can automate communication with electronic invoice systems, and companies that have a small number of invoices can be able to bring them directly into the system. So it took care of each other. One option is how the firm can trust the information intermediary with part of the business, the information intermediary must, of course, have the consent of the Ministry of Finance and they can provide the services of publishing, recording, processing, receiving, delivering, keeping that electronic data themselves. Each businessman will be able to make a decision based on analysis whether his model is more cost-effective in upgrading the system. The states have seen that the best way to contain the gray economy is to monitor VAT reporting, real-time obligations through an electronic invoice system. This is very important, when one entity is in the VAT system, and the other is not, then there will be an obligation for one who is to issue an invoice in the system later recorded in the central system of electronic invoices. So he has this obligation under this law. For example, there is no obligation to receive and send invoices, and we know that since 2012 there is no seal obligation. Since then, an electronic invoice has been recognised as a neat document. The law introduces new things, for example protocol, additional security and formats for electronic invoices. We must be aware that so far there has been money laundering and spinning in accounts for nonexistent goods. That's how drug money and other criminal affairs came in as white and legal. This law is in fact another kind of prevention of money laundering and fake companies, fake bills, fake fake fake goods invoices, they won't be able to get through anymore. So this fight against undeclared VAT and unpaid tax also comes down to the fight against crime. The growth of the global economy is also driven by new services on the market and estimated to be around 550 billion annually, of which digital invoices account for 10%. Very little. Rough estimates suggest that half of all invoices are sent to private consumers while the other half is sent to public enterprises or businesses and the public sector. During the second decade now 21st century, Central European countries as well as Latin American countries are increasingly turning to the development of services, standardising and strengthening legal support for the electronic issue of invoices just to raise charges, and on the other hand to reduce crime. If some are wondering if it costs the introduction of electronic invoices and whether they ever wondered how much annual money they spend on invoices, for example, a thousand invoices a year that you send to spend about 80,000 dinars, and if you send it recommended, it's 110,000 dinars, if you send it back. Thus, time is spent, money is spent on both envelopes and stamps and postal services. With an irrational cost of money going and unnecessary spending of time you're still not sure whether the other side got the invoice or not. The model e-factures are increasingly done electronically, thus speeding up the charge safely from two to four days which is not negligible. In addition to e-factures, our accounts arrive electronically at the moment of uploading, and we also have confirmation that the invoice was received as now as it is with emails, and the faster handing of the invoice logically represents a quick charge. That's why there's no loss of account. You know how much trouble can arise when the invoice is lost, so it has to be printed again, and in this case it's eliminated. In addition to the invoice, it is also possible to deliver the shipping and guarantee or book approval. As far as this announced electronic invoice law is concerned, it will so far alter significant practice so far. Most of all, it's the ones who want to tax evasion. There's no rich country without all citizens paying taxes. I would like to conclude with one analysis published by the World Economic Form on the digitalisation process in Serbia. The smart move, which she insisted on and presented in her exposé, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, saved our country 180 million pages of paper. Then, if this is translated into trees, electricity, water, because all of this is needed to produce, that paper, that would mean that only in June 2017, until today, we have managed to save 900 tonnes of paper, or 18,000 trees, 76 million liters of water and more than 6,000 mega-hours of electricity. Well, is that a little bit? The path of digitisation that our country has set out to be correct and, as you can see, we are already seeing positive results. This law may not please someone because it prevents financial machinations, but it will bring great relief to the honest and working world. I thank you for your efforts and for the work of your ministers and the people of the ministry, we think it's a very advanced law that we'll only see for the good of him in the coming period. I hope very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5877	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5878	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, respected fellow Members of Parliament and fellow MPs, is certainly of great importance today's set of laws, and once again shows the continuity that the Serbian government has, in terms of development and improvement, and an even better and easier life for all citizens of Serbia. All of what my fellow MPs spoke more than enough about today as a representative of the SNS Aleksandar Vucic – for our children in the voting day we support this set of laws and I really think that anyone who was able to listen to the presentation of the MPs could have been very easy and clear to see what the benefits of the citizens would have and I think that the discussion was filled with all the other details and different aspects from which some MP observed it and certainly I am confident that there are many good laws ahead and many other proposals and decisions that will certainly be in the general interest and benefit the citizens of Serbia. However, this set of laws as well as all that the Serbian Government does, and the next policy of the country's president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is the subject of criticism and baseless accusations, but most often a bunch of lies and lies that come from the same kitchen, which is the kitchen of Dragan Gilas, and I see that today we have had the opportunity to have this set of laws criticised, and that nothing is essential that is not good in these laws we have neither seen nor heard. And, when you consider that this comes from people who have been ruining our country for over a decade rightly, you ask yourself what is driving them to step forward today and very easily to answer that it is a wasteful and only desire to return to power again and continue with their vast wealth as they did during the period when they cheered and dressed in the DS regime throughout our country. However, what is particularly worrying is the rhetoric that is being used, and it is no longer for us MPs, and for the highest state leadership, because it has now been passed on to people who perform functions and foreign citizens, but it is best defined in the sentence of Dragan Gilas, who says – these are some foreign statesmen who now hold the power of Alexander Vukic. When you hear such a thing you cannot not smile for the simple reason that the last elections held last year have clearly shown that SNS has clear support and clear legitimacy in Serbia and that citizens are clearly defined as wanting a developing country, improving and in which our children have perspective and future. The only concern is that one part of that opposition is willing to go so far as to harm our country as well as the opposition. What's this about? A few days ago, Dragan Gilas, in an interview, was able to criticize falsely accuse several foreign citizens within an hour, adding that it was people who were presidents of their republics. For people who don't know, Dragan Gilas had an interview two days ago, in which Emmanuel Makron, president of Turkey Erdogan, also accused some US officials of participating in some corruption affairs, in a way that Aleksandar Vukic, as a capable statesman, is able to provide them with no idea of the benefits and firms they have. Not to mention I made it all up, the honourable MPs, and above all, the citizens of Serbia, I will now quote what Dragan Gilas was talking about in that interview and why all this is important, and why we need to talk today about when there's a set of laws again, financial nature. He started with this, so 300 euros in salary is not the concept I believe in, because in my company, the average salary 15 years ago was 1000 euros. Of course, your salary company averaged 1,000 euros when you took advantage of your position as director of some office, mayor, some imaginary official of the DS regime, to make yourself rich and to bring your companies more than 619m euros. It was easy for you to pump state money into your private company and then boast and share your salaries as you reach your employees, so I also believe that there is a much higher salary for Marinika Tepic, who is his biggest spokeswoman. To remind the citizens of Serbia, at that time the salary to the citizens of Serbia was between 15 and 20,000 dinars. So he took from Serbian citizens and developed and shared salaries, according to over 1000 euros. I'm a sharp man, and I'm asking for a lot of work, and I haven't fired anyone from my firm, and I've replaced people in town, but I haven't left anyone on the street. Well, you may not have fired anyone in your company, no one from your firm has stayed on the street, but in the DS regime and your fellows Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and all of you who have cheered and dressed in Serbia in those years, more than half a million remain on the street. And it is not true to me that you are not people in the City of Belgrade, when you were mayor, leaving on the street because, Igor Miklj, who was then a sports secretary in the City of Belgrade, now pay attention to his home friend, with whom he was 15 years in friendly relations, so the first question is, did he just put him in that place, replaced the text message. So he just texted him, which contained a text about – from today on, you're not the city secretary anymore. I don't make anything up, and I've never learned, that everything that we know is Dragan Gilas, that we never forget, and thank God, the Internet remembers everything. At that time, a prominent official of the Democratic Party, our celebrated footballer Savo Milosevic, joined the defence of Igor Miklje and then you had the situation that Dragan Djilas was running away from his party colleague Sava Milosevic, who did not want to answer why he replaced Miklj with a text message. The reasons are well-known in the city of Belgrade, I will not enter the nature of the issue, but the most talk is about some private misunderstanding and that Miklja did not want to do what Dragan Gilas asked him to do. But this resulted in a paper written today under the direct management of Dragan Djilas, a daily newspaper, saying: "All of this resulted in a public appearance by the president of the Olympic Committee of the Government of Divac and the legendary Serbian footballer Sava Milosevic and their direct references to Gilas's account." Government Divac then said: "I am doing this, first of all, because of great respect for Igor Miklja, but it is not about him as an individual, it is a big problem for the whole society. If this is how you treat the city's sports secretary, what should ordinary citizens expect? I absolutely agree with the way Dragan Gilas treated his associates and his friends yesterday. Citizens couldn't expect anything good, so nothing so good about Dragan Gilas did." Savo Milosevic, who said: “This was an unworthy, ruthless, and undemocratic decision made by a man in an illegal and undemocratic way. The mayor has disobeyed all our calls to receive us or to explain the reason for the shift. The procedure itself that he has been gone for two weeks in the media says a lot about why Dragan Gilas did so." And that this all has outlines, of course, conflicts within the DS and everything else that has happened, beware now, Savo Milosevic is asking for the help of the DS: "Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas and former city secretary Igor Miklja are more than 15 years of domestic friends and the real question is whether this friendship has been transferred to business co-operation? But Milosevic is now asking for the party's help. He announced that he, like Dragan Gilas, is a member of the DS board and that since Dragan Gilas is not answering his phone and will not explain in the media all this that justice will be sought by DS authorities. “ Now imagine, Serbia’s respected citizens, if anyone is fighting in the DS, whether you will be building fields, sports halls, playgrounds for children, whether you will be involved in youth and sports. So this isn't true, either, that Dragan Gilas was saying that he didn't leave anyone on the street, and the more he did, he was a friend who he brought into office because of his friendship. Now what I would especially like to draw attention to, and I will end up with, I will shorten my presentation, is a fact in which in a direct manner, President Alexander Vukic, but also accused foreign statesmen of corruption: "Wucic is a great master to personally end world statesmen of various things. Every politician has a company he wants to stretch out, so he's calling to see if they can win and get them some jobs in a set-up tender or no tender. Well, what do you think they're not corrupt? “ Honorable citizens of Serbia and respected MPs, in this way Dragan Gilas insulted all foreign statesmen who visit our country, and even worse, insulted all those countries that invest in our country and want to work in our country. He's obviously in pain that every month you can track how many new jobs are open, how much wages and pensions are increasing, and that frustration and hatred that occupied him with a sick desire to return to power is pouring out, so now everyone's alive. So I quote: “You have first state corruption. So to get a pat from China, we sign contracts with China. It's not just China that needs to be criticised. Here's what he's doing, for example. France, what's Emmanuel Makron doing with the methroom? The U.S. firm got to work on the highway. Not to mention Erdogan, the same jobs -- highways, Turkish firms." Dear colleagues, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, this is at least scandalous, in this way to accuse people who are primarily friends of our country, whose investments allow for new jobs, constant progress and the development of our country. Now, because of the sick hatred of Dragan Gilas towards Alexander Vukic, and probably because of that perception of how he acted while he was in power, he accused all these people and dumped them by accusing them of corruption. As a folk MP, I now call upon Dragan Gilas to say that there is no evidence, and these are pure fiction, brutal lies, come out on one of his media, and apologize nicely to these people he's made up in this way. But if he claims it's true, let him file criminal charges, so he can prove all the vomit he's said in this interview. For the end - I entered politics as a rich man. My debate with Boris Tadic was mostly about the salaries of high-ranking people. My salary as mayor was 800 euros, and annually I signed contracts worth more than 600m euros, which is completely pointless. So it makes no sense for him to be mayor, just because his salary is 800 euros, and he signs contracts of 600m euros. To the journalist's question – did you perhaps take some percentage of those jobs, so you replaced them, the answer is astounding – we didn't have it in Belgrade. We all know that from the staged tenders, we don't know which one before, whether the boulevard of King Alexander, whether the underground containers, whether the bridge on Ada, but that's not the worst thing -- to tell you the truth, I didn't need it. If I hadn't had a firm that makes five million euros a year from which I can take a cut and live more than politely, honestly, I don't believe I'd give in under these pressures. So, my people, the man only in this sentence admitted to you that while he was mayor of his firm they were doing private business, making money in co-operation with state television, the man admitted that it was somewhere around five million euros, of course there was more, he took it so nicely to himself to live decently, but he wasn't even so honest with himself. He says - I'm not sure if he'd give in. He's not sure if he hadn't had this on his side, if he had only 800 euros, if he might have stuck to the Serbian citizens' budget. The 25m-euro answer only in the properties that Dragan Gilas has made clear that it is also a dead end, that he also defiled himself, as Serbian citizens would say, defiled the public's money's mustache, so from a man with 75,000 euros in savings, a wife's house and a used car called Saab, one of the richest people in this part of Europe. When I thought everything he said had nowhere else to go, for the very end, I know I'm saying this the second time, I won't mind my colleagues, but I'm sorry, I have to share this with the citizens of Serbia. He says I never asked anyone to write anything about me or to be somewhere. So he had no influence on the media. He says, "Here, if you find a man who deals with the media, who I called and asked to say something, publish or write something against someone, I will no longer do this job." Retroactively, Dragan Gilas would no longer be involved in this business and politics because, according to the late Verice Barać's report, he was in power and while he was mayor, directly controlled his companies for seconds, minutes and other advertising space, and because he was then called the absolute master of the media. Now, just this one interview, respected citizens of Serbia, is enough for you to understand and see what kind of manipulator they are, free to say and a liar, works and how far he is willing to go in his manipulation and in his sick campaign against Alexander Vukic with one goal, to return to power. Here, just this, respected citizens of Serbia, consider what kind of a man is doing when this is how he insults all of us intelligence, and in this way he lies to us all fatally. This level of untruth has not yet been seen, but the question is what else we will hear in the coming period, all to somehow throw ourselves into oblivion of the affair that has surfaced, which is that in more than 53 accounts there are over 68m euros in different 17 countries. We will continue to ask questions as to how he acquired it and how and which countries are next to Mauritius, Switzerland or from a remote Hong Kong, and more destinations he visited and there sowed his millions taken and taken from Serbian citizens. I want you, dear Minister, to continue following President Alexander Vukic's policy and that the government continues to work in the interests of Serbian citizens to create an even better and better future for our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5879	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The word is Ivana Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5880	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we today have an important set of laws, especially for our economy, but of course also for natural persons. What I am particularly proud of is that our country is today implementing a responsible economic policy led by President Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but, of course, by the Ministry of Finance, headed by Minister Sinish Mali, who are implementing our plans for a better future through concrete financial strategic plans. These days we have a lot of laws that come to us from the Ministry of Finance and they all have one common line somewhere, which is that today our country is in such a position that we are economically strong enough that we can bear the greatest burden on the shoulders of the state, stand behind every citizen of our country and help him in these difficult moments caused by the Covid 19 pandemic. We today have these stable and healthy public finances and we were able to help the private sector in the previous year with two aid packages and, as a result of the extension, to say, a negative impact due to the Covid 19 pandemic, was necessary somewhere and was also suggested to continue with the third package of measures. All the assistance that was provided in 2020 and now with a new third package of measures will actually present an eight-billion-euro injection that will be injected with our citizens. This represents an extraordinary kind of help to our private sector. By the way of these measures, carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are able to say that at this moment we have preserved our economy, that we have preserved a low unemployment rate, that we have preserved all our production capacities and that we have maintained this comprehensive health of our public finances. How important this is and how much help this is to our citizens is also telling us that 251,000 companies have registered for the package of measures from this third part and three times 50% minimum earnings, which started in early April of this month. We also have a situation that today one 1.22 billion dinars will be paid, precisely to that sector that may be one of the most endangered at the moment, and these are city hotelers. To find a very poor state of the state register, as the SNS found at the time of the takeover of power, it certainly wasn't easy. Our country was on its knees at that time and we are only implementing very important financial reforms, led by President Aleksandar Vukic in the last seven, eight years, able to find ourselves in such a position today to have these stable public finances, to have an extremely favourable climate for both foreign direct investment and domestic investors and to implement it, it might also be characterized as an aggressive trend in public capital investments, which keeps our finances. The responsible policy is also reflected in the fact that all these planned steps and all these strategies that are implemented over the years are, in fact, synchronously organised. We have recently had a plenary and debate on the subject – the development of a broadband telecommunications network in our country. It is a very important item to cover the internet network in the territory of our entire country, so that we can be able, with that good flow of Internet available to all our citizens, we are able to continue digitising, to continue to develop these electronic services provided by our country, such as e-government, such as e-paper, such as electronic healthcare. This is what we come to, in my opinion, the key points of today's debate, which is exactly the Law on electronic invoicery. It represents a very important factor in facilitating and helping our private sector. So far, we have had the opportunity to submit those invoices to the central invoice register to the public sector if we work with the public sector, as private persons. This electronic invoice system is an extended and yet another step further towards better and more transparent business, not only when co-operated with the public sector, but also time and so on. BTB business, i.e. business to business. What is very important, and what we have under this law, is that its implementation will be implemented through stages. Why does it matter? So that all actors and all participants, all future users of that electronic invoice system, could rightly adapt through time and access and, in conclusion, in 2023, we could all be able to be in the right way to be part of that electronic invoice system, both for those who are legally bound to use this system and for those who volunteer to apply to this system. In addition to the transparency it will provide, this system will also reduce the tax evasion through the electronic accounting regime, increase the effectiveness of tax collection, but also reduce the grey economy in our country. We're all witnesses and we've had a chance to see how many decades it's been, how many representatives even some so-called. political elites, crisscrossed huge money precisely by these financial malfeasances, precisely tax evasion. Such a law and many others conducted by the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will stand in the way of such ones, and those companies that do business fairly, will have only benefits from this kind of law. As a country on the European path, it is also important to stress that this law is in line with EU legal assets, and that it will also have multiple savings when it comes to both monetary and time. Of course, we had opportunities from my colleagues to hear the lack of paper use, too, will also affect environmental protection. That the state takes care of its citizens and that the state wants to facilitate the business of its citizens is certainly seen at the next point of our agenda, which is the Law on the Register of Administrative Procedures. It really represents an extraordinary platform in which we will be able to gather all the administrative procedures that are presently in our country. This is something that will in an extraordinary way and transparently give our citizens the opportunity to have timely accurate information at all times, they know absolutely all the steps necessary to realize certain administrative processes, so what documents are needed, what forms are needed and what fees are needed. Not only will this help, let me say, to the individuals, to our citizens, it will help a lot in the private sector, because especially small companies that do not have enough resources to own their legal departments, will be able to be timely and accurately informed about all administrative processes necessary in their business. What is also very important is that the list of all these administrative procedures and processes has shown that they also possess some shortcomings, that certain steps may be unnecessary, too. What I particularly appreciate is that it is decided to go through the establishment of a register with the implementation of continued simplification, i.e. optimisation of these administrative procedures. There are a lot of reform processes currently under way in our country. Of course, these reform processes include digitisation of administration and various other and electronic services provided by our country to citizens and the private sector. It is, of course, a process that is being implemented to achieve a better business climate, in order to achieve a better standard of living for our citizens. I will certainly support this set of laws in the voting day, because this is exactly what we support the continuity of a responsible economic policy in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5881	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5882	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as I can tell, we're finishing our social property today. The issue of privatisation and grabbing was dominant by 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, Communism and social property have gone, we should have just determined whose pockets. This would be correct and they would probably find many masters of transition, which in that privatisation, grab everything that was common, everything that was socially taken. So predatory predatory privatisation, I mean, it's not imagined, it hasn't happened anywhere in the world, and it's hard to imagine at all that kind of grab and privatization can happen again. Except that they got huge assets, they fired 400,000 people, they deprived them of their wages, they deprived them of dignity, none of them could bring a decent personal income to their loved ones, their families, and in a certain way they devalued and morale in our society, because it's hard to give the kids an example when you're out of work, when you're out of pay, it's hard to give the kids an example and tell them how good it is to be honest, how good it is to be employed, how, I don't know, two or three decades you're out of work, and you're out of a certain way and without a pension right. Except that you've been deprived of your personal income and dignity, you've left the country on the income side with your expenditure. So, except that you didn't get paid, the health funds were emptied, the PIO funds were emptied, the registers of local self-government, the registers of cities, the register of the Republic were emptied. So, thanks to the layoff of these people, the state has lost its economy and economic activity. It's like a car that doesn't have a motor and a gearbox. Such a car can have a driver and it doesn't matter who manages it, mostly that car can only go downhill. If you've lost your investment in this, and the investments are fuel poured into a car like that that's supposed to start a business activity if it exists... This power has done it. So she hired 320,000 people. To translate this into figures, every month thanks to the growth of personal incomes over 160m euros, 320,000 people receive or at an annual level of citizens who were employed by the government by around two billion in net personal incomes, and over a billion go to the pension and disability fund, to the health fund and to pay taxes to local self-government. When these citizens, because they don't export that money to the white world islands, when these citizens spend that money here, then the state again through VAT, out of those two billion gets 400 million in its cash register, and thus mutually helping citizens, the states that have found their working activity in businesses, through the investments that this government has led to. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on the matter of invoices, I would like to see SBB invoices, or see how much money on fake cross-border television is pumped out of this country because SBB, Total and EON are always at a loss, or United Media, United Group in Serbia, although through advertisements, through subscription to the crowd, according to my information, is about 500m euros. Most of that money is being pumped for false services, allegedly re-emissioning, i.e. a re-emission service is being paid in Luxembourg where the programme is not being broadcast. So basically, Minister, you pay for a service that doesn't exist. It's just like if you started a company and paid for a favor abroad that you didn't use. It'd be a money pump, it'd be a money laundering, it'd be a tax offense. So if any money out of profits gets thrown abroad, in such a situation he's committed a tax offense and should be prosecuted. With the help of REM and the independent regulatory body, their fake cross-border channels broadcast to tens of thousands of seconds during the day on one channel and if we take that only five euros that second, on RTS is 100, one of their channels is daily pumping 50,000 euros in commercials that are being thrown out, while they claim to be cross-border television. Under the advertising law, they have no right to broadcast Serbian commercials. They can only broadcast ads that are part of the electoral program. Don't let anyone tell me that the Jelen Beer commercial or the Zajacar beer commercials, the Diamond commercials, etc. is being broadcast in Luxembourg, i.e. recently, they have also started to recast cross-border television Discoveres, History, Fox Channels, Sinestar Channels, etc., and this is being done by Cass Media, which is an integral part of United Media, i.e. Solak's business and Gilas's company. They're making a media landscape, and it's not a problem that they, although they're involved in the creation of a pre-election programme, and foreign television, which is not allowed anywhere in any country, while complaining about freedom of the media... Their majority owner is US VS partners and Americans who are highly sensitive to the interference of foreign and foreign media in their election process have allowed, as owners of the Luxembourg media, to influence advertising and pre-election programmes in the Republic of Serbia on the possible outcome of the election. I don't think they want any political party or Gilas's company to win the election, but to prepare a media landscape for rebellion, unrest, and we witnessed in July what it looks like to lead the demonstration to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, what happened, that police officers were shot with stones that weigh over five kilos, as they tried in a violent way to reach power. I think that from this way, they have not given up and that in this way they are collecting money to finance the riots in Serbia, and in doing so, media monitoring, not only from electronic media, but also printed by the owners of which they became in the meantime. So I'd like to see those invoices from the SBB and when you ask, say, the IRS whether N1 TV has a PIB, they answer that N1 has no PIB, but that it uses another company called Adria News Ltd. Belgrade. For me, it is unacceptable that a foreign company uses a PIB domestic company, because even if Adria is News d.o.o. Founder of N1 television, one firm when it starts another company, it must have its own home number and its PIB. That's not happening in N1 television. More crimes have also been committed by shouting about freedom of the media, which is reportedly at risk, they are actually defending Gilas's company and Sollak's business. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to be committed every day. Unlike them, we need to spend our time in the work of the farmers and the processing industry, what farmers produce, processing and thus producing more money through the economy, and that our citizens benefit from these created and natural benefits, i.e. to have the right to honest work, decent income and a decent home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5883	Thank you. The word is Adriana Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5884	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and, firstly, respected citizens, we have an extremely important proposal for an electronic invoice law that will, above all, facilitate everyday work, save time and reduce business costs. This law regulates the issue, sending, reception, processing, storage, content and elements of electronic invoiceing in transactions between the public sector, between public and private sector entities, as well as between private sector entities. The main reason for the adoption of the electronic invoice law is to establish visibility in the broad circle of transactions, as well as the improvement of the legal framework. For the implementation of this law, a phase will be introduced. It is a period of adaptation with the aim of avoiding stress for both public and private sector entities. In this respect, three dates are significant: 1 January 2022 – an obligation is established to issue electronic invoices of public sector entities; 1 July 2022 – the obligation of private and public sector entities; 1 January 2023 – the obligation of transactions between private sector entities. I must, for the sake of our citizens, mention that the use of the electronic invoice system will be free of charge, there will be no obligation to hire an information mediator. There will be a contact centre for customer support and no additional operating costs will be imposed. A large number of constructive proposals and suggestions were implemented in the proposal for an electronic invoice bill. What I have noticed in direct contact is that my colleagues who have graduated from the Faculty of Economics, as well as other employees in both financial and accounting services and who are interested in what will happen to the Central Book Register. Dear colleagues, the application of this law will not result in the execution of the Central Register of invoices, but the invoice will be simplified. In the central invoice register, as we know, the basic elements are entered, not the items of the invoice. So, just the basic elements of the invoice. After that, we are obliged to create new invoices sent by mail. Thanks to the new electronic invoice, when you send the invoice, the data will automatically blend into the Central Register of invoices, so the CRF will be on the back of the office, meaning behind the e-facture system, which means that everything is done in one system and you don't have to send the invoices by mail, so you will also have significant savings in the current paper invoice. The subject of what will be shown on electronic invoices is transactions relating to the delivery of goods and services and the receipt of advance payments. The introduction of such a system will provide better records and possibilities for control of compliance with value added tax, which is of great importance to our country. With this quality bill, the resolute ministries have just shown synergy, Minister Sinisa Mali and his Ministry of Finance as the head of preparations for the bill, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Trade, Telecommunications and Tourism, as well as full support for the tax administration and the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. The ministry's co-operation is also seen through the implementation of the project of the Ministry of Trade, Telecommunications and Tourism. Building broadband infrastructure is, in fact, building a broadband network, which I have also spoken of in some of the previous exhibitions in our Assembly, and all in order to help agriculture and rural areas, not only in the Borska Management District from which I come, but also in other parts of the Republic of Serbia, where thanks to the expanded internet and the owners of rural areas, i.e. without prejudice to the law on electronic invoices. The aim of the law is to improve transparency, legal certainty and consistency of the national legal framework that regulates the area of electronic invoices. This is one of the rules we are going with, just as our President Aleksandar Vukic does, in step with the latest business trends in the world, especially when it comes to European integration. Serbia is becoming a modern state by introducing such new, innovative legal solutions. That is why in the day of voting with my colleagues from the Legislative Group, Alexander Vukic, for what is most sacred to us – for our children, I will support today's bill of law. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5885	Thank you, Mrs. Pupovac. The word is Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5886	Thank you. Dear Mr. Orlic, dear Mr. Minister, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and citizens of Serbia, my fellow MPs from the "Alexander Vukic – for our children" group spoke excellently about the proposed laws. Of course I'll support all that in voting day. We had an excellent exhibition and Minister Syniche Mali. I especially thank my colleagues, Mr. Mirkovic and Risticevic, for speaking in detail about the malfeasances of Dragan Gilas and the former regime, which are one of the destroyers of Serbia in the newer era, but what I would like to point out about the proposed laws, I am particularly pleased with the proposal for an electronic invoice law and the proposal for a law on the register of administrative procedures because I believe that the proposed laws will save both citizens and the state a lot of money, we will also have a faster payment and we will no longer have a situation to lack one piece of paper. We also have a situation where there will be less corruption. Just to remind you that when the former regime asked about the digitization we didn't even have until 2012, we had a period that wasn't just missing one piece of paper. There was a lot of paper missing, and in most cases there was a lack of money to bribe those of the former regimes that were in certain functions, from local self-government, to the republican state institutions, to get that paper and to get what was coming to them under the law. They had to give depending on the institution 100 euros, thousands of euros, tens of thousands of euros. All depends on what service members of the former regime, Gilas regime, wanted to charge the citizens of Serbia. Of course, here I exempt all those honest officers who were working at the time and are now working on state institutions, local self-government institutions. You know how? From everyday contact with citizens, when a citizen enters the municipality, a citizen enters a police station or a home of health, the citizen sees the state there. Most citizens, unfortunately, precisely because of the mistakes of the former regime and the lack of education of citizens and the lack of digitalisation has not previously prevailed in Serbia, a citizen who thinks that he can solve everything in terms of catasters and urbanism and tax administrations, even as far as schooling is concerned. It is these laws that have been proposed that the whole digitalisation process that has actually started only as it should be in the Government of Aleksandra Vukic since 2014, and will later continue in 2016 and 2020, will make life much easier for the citizens of Serbia. Life for Serbian citizens is facilitated daily and thanks to good news, because in order to have a budget full enough to strengthen all branches, economic branches in Serbia, as well as tourism branches. This news that you announced today by ministers, which concerns tourism, if I'm not mistaken, has been paid off by the state for city hotels for 294 city hotels in Serbia 350 euros per bed and 150 euros per room. I don't know if there's this kind of information in Europe or anywhere in the world that this country helps 294 city hotels to not only pay people's salaries, there are thousands and thousands of people who work, but also so that the tourism branch doesn't fail in terms of the crown of the virus. It is certainly good news and what President Aleksandar Vukic told us during yesterday, which is building a fast track from Belgrade to Nis and Northern Macedonia. Not only will we have built a fast track, but one excellent co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the EU is shown. To remind citizens, the EU participates 35% in the construction of this fast track, 700m euros in EU retail gifts. Why? Because we have one responsible authority led by Alexander Vukic, where the EU knows that every dinar is being taken care of here. There are no more malfeasances here like it was until 2012, not to repeat now, what my colleagues were saying today. So we have one responsible authority. We have a government to take care of, not just all economic branches, not just the budget, not just the laws. Take care of both fighting the crown virus and fighting the mafia. Of course, I'm not happy with some information that's been reported to the public in the field of fighting the mob, but they're reality. In the fight against the mafia, the state has nothing to hide and these images and news that we have had the opportunity to see the previous days of finding new weapons in an organized crime clan run by Velya Belivuk, with his associates, or who led it, speak enough of who is against the state. Against a country like this that works great, what all these indicators are talking about, can only be organized criminal clans, i.e. The mafia can only be the former regime, led by Dragan Gilas, Šolak, Marinik Tepic, to list them now. There aren't many, but there are so many that they've all managed to steal hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros together. In the end, I would like to tell the citizens of Serbia that it is always to support all these well-proposed laws in Serbia, this fight against the state-run mafia, this fight for a state-run vaccination, and I hope that we will reach Israel. I hope that in this year we will win the crown virus, that the citizens realize that the state is helping all pensioners and young couples and employees both in electricity and in tourism, and in other institutions, because now Serbia is a country of rule of law, which takes care and which is safely led by our President, Aleksandr Vukic, to a better future, for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5887	I thank Mr. Gristle. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5888	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Orlic, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs and MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, are facing us today with a set of very important laws. What I must say first is that, thanks to the responsible policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the responsible, hardworking and dedicated work of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, he is making progress in every possible way, primarily in all areas of social life. Despite a global pandemic that has caused the global economic crisis, Serbia has the best indicators regarding the economy and the protection of the health of our citizens, that is, the health system. Serbia means, despite the very severe pandemic and the consequences it can leave, it has proved to be a champion in both economic and health terms. The laws before us are primarily aimed at reducing corruption and reducing the grey economy. I must point out that one of the objectives of the SNS, since 2012 when we took over the exercise of power, has just been to fight corruption, to destroy it, to know that corruption is spreading as the worst disease, to metastasize it, but it is very important to bring corruption down to the least possible level, and also to the grey economy that favours corruption. It is the law on electronic invoices that is a modern law, a law in line with EU standards and legal assets, but a law that will contribute to even more transparent public finances. I must point out that Serbia today, thanks to the responsible policy of then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, today's president and thanks to those difficult and painful but necessary measures, has become a country that has strong and stable finances. Thanks to precisely strong and stable finances, Serbia today as a country can boast of the support and measures it provides both for citizens and for the economy in our country. It is the third package of support measures for both citizens and businesses, but what I must point out is that the International Labour Organisation in its report during 2020 pointed out that the Republic of Serbia has the most comprehensive, poorest and mildest responses to citizens and businesses, which is seen in the preservation of jobs, reducing poverty, and that unemployment has not been increased, on the contrary, it has been reduced during the Kovid 19 pandemic, which means that a larger number of citizens are employed. In Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic himself opened over 230 factories, employing about 400,000 workers. Serbia has a stable business environment. No foreign investor in 2020 and has left Serbia today. On the contrary, they are coming, and among these investors besides Chinese, I must point out that the largest Japanese investor to produce tires in India just last year came to Serbia, and the other day in Smederjevska Palanca a South Korean company came to hire about 700 workers, which brings modern technology and Smederjevska Palanka can certainly boast that there will be one of the most successful municipalities in the Danube region. Of course, she was once ruled by a yellow tycoon company before bankruptcy. It was a municipality where there was no water, there was no street lighting, but the citizens recognized that the yellow tycoon company led to the destruction of both citizens and their municipalities, so they entrusted SNS, or Aleksandr Vukic. When it comes to the law relating to the Register of Administrative Procedures, I must point out that improving the quality of life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and insisting that state authorities and public institutions must be a service to citizens, not citizens of couriers and mailmen of the Republic of Serbia, it is drawn up in SNS policy and this law is exactly what is achieved. Instead of a bunch of days and absences from work, for example, the child’s application, that is, the birth of a child, instead of a ton of paper needed today, is reported immediately from maternity leave, and all the necessary documentation is coming to the home address of the citizens and the citizens should, for example, have for the birth of the child. Also, the introduction of an electronic recipe and how it made it easier for citizens to get medicines. They don't have to wear papers. Automaticly, going to the pharmacy gets what they need. Digitalization is the momentum of every society's economic progress. Digitalisation is something that the Republic of Serbia has drawn as one of its plans and I must point out that again last year, at the end of last year, the Kvid 19 pandemic in Kragujevac opened a State Data Centre that stores citizens' databases and registers and citizens and businesses, but, of course, it also stores data from foreign companies under commercial conditions. I must point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has invested 30m euros in the state-owned centre in Kragujevac and that this is one of the most modern and modern centres not only with us, but in all of Southeast Europe. I also point out that in the National Data Centre in Kragujevac there is the first state platform for artificial intelligence that will serve both universities and the state and scientists for further growth and development because we seek Serbia's knowledge, Serbia's new technologies, Serbia where workers will have much higher salaries and Serbia where all our children will live in a safe, certain, modern and rich Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5889	Thank you. The word has Milan Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5890	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Mali, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing laws that are very important for our country, for our economy and for our citizens. In front of us is the proposal for a law on electronic invoicery that improves transparency, legal certainty and consistency of the national legal framework that regulates the system of electronic invoices. One of the benefits of electronic invoices is faster payment, but also more effective tax control by the tax administration. The electronic invoice is actually a digital form of those classic simple invoices and contains everything that the invoice usually has. From the aspect of the economy itself, using an electronic invoice system achieves efficiency, transparency, reduces the possibility of creating errors when processing and exchanging data, but also achieves faster payments. All legal entities in the VAT system will be obliged to issue and receive invoices which have been sent through an electronic invoice system, but also the obligation to record and send all invoices which have been sent outside the electronic invoice system, i.e. in transactions with obligors not in the VAT system. The important fact is that using this electronic invoice system will be absolutely free of charge, which means it will not generate additional costs on the users themselves, but users will also have the option to choose information, those intermediaries and to use their services, but their relationship will be regulated by a contract rather than by law. Therefore, the adoption of this proposal for electronic invoice law achieves a multiple effect, both for the state and for the economy, savings in time needed to work with electronic invoices compared to the classic form of paper invoices, savings in money needed to issue, send and store paper form invoices, faster payment, but also more effective control and reduction of the tax gap, and thus, ultimately, a reduction in the degree of the grey economy. When I talk about the gray economy, I must also commend the Ministry of Finance and a project that has been implemented for the last few years, and it is about the award game "Take the Account and Win" and I am using this opportunity to congratulate my Vranians who are the winners of this award game for 2020. Namely, the town of Vranje is an absolute winner in the category of large local self-government and I am very proud of all citizens of Serbia, and especially of my Vranjans for recognising this measure of combating the gray economy carried out by our state and the Ministry of Finance and for participating in their activities in reducing the degree of gray economy. Dear citizens, reducing the level of gray economy means that we will have more money in the state register and that further means that we will have more opportunities to invest in new capital projects, in building new roads, hospitals, schools, but also the possibility of increasing wages and pensions. We adopted budget rebalancing last week, we adopted another guarantee scheme as an additional measure of support for our economy to overcome the negative consequences caused by the Kovid virus pandemic – 19, but also a new financial aid package for our citizens. It's all good things that we as one responsible state do, but, as we usually do, there's always some smart guy who's got enough guts or not enough sense to criticise what's obviously good. One of those smart-ass, self-proclaimed experts, otherwise a member of the brain trusts gathered around Dragan Gilas and his thieving brothers, told me that paying out money to citizens of Serbia of 60 euros is funny and offensive to every normal man and that anyone who feels normal in Serbia should refuse to do so. So, my fellow citizens, those who robbed you would want to divide you today into normal and abnormal, depending on whether your amount of 60 euros is funny or not. I can't be surprised anymore by the amount of nonsense and nonsense they say, because what to expect from people who support Dragan Gilas, who stole 619 million from this country and this people and who in 53 accounts in 17 countries have huge money. Well, you've stolen so much money, it doesn't really surprise me that 60 euros is funny and offensive to you. But it's not funny to us at all, and it's not funny to the citizens of Serbia either, because they felt your thieving best in their skin. To my question to him – and why didn't you, while you were in charge of the citizens, pay some money which, according to your standards, wasn't funny, I got the answer – well, there was no need. Imagine, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, there was no need. There was no need in times when the unemployment rate was 26%! There was no need at times when the average profit was about 300 euros and the minimum profit of 16-17 000? There was no need at times when you closed down hundreds of factories every month where people worked and left them on the street? Well, there have been many and many needs and reasons, dear gentlemen, the need to be responsible, the need to be honest and obliged to care for your citizens and your country. But unfortunately, the only need you had in those moments is to steal, to get rich at the expense of the citizens and to do everything contrary to the interest of this country, to satisfy your sick greed for money. Today, when you no longer know how much money you stole, you silver-loving people allow yourself to mock the people that you've eaten and say that 60 euros is funny or offensive. I'm asking you, do you think it's funny that in four months we've managed to build two hoofs of hospitals? Is it funny for you today that Serbia is injecting this number of citizens and that we have four different vaccines, which do not have some much more economically strong and stronger countries than we do? You think it's funny that we're planning a 6% of GDP growth for this year? Or are those three billion euros of foreign investment we've attracted to you funny? You must also laugh that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic opens a factory every month across Serbia, where we employ our people, because we want our citizens to live better, we want our Serbia to be better, successful, because it is certainly the most beautiful country in the world. But don't. Just keep laughing, keep mocking, and we, as one responsible authority, headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, will continue to do everything in the interest of our citizens and in the interest of our Serbia. They are not 60 euros in any courtship for the citizens of Serbia. Of course no one will get rich off that money, none of us have said it, but it's important for citizens to know that in difficult times, in times of crisis, their state takes care of them and that their state thinks of them. But for you, it's work, responsibility, honesty and concern for the citizens of the mindbook, and for us it's something that drives us and pushes us forward. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5891	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5892	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I will talk about the proposal for an electronic invoice bill, which is just another step further towards digitisation. Namely, this law was held public debate, all actors advocated this law, how can I say, because there was a full public administration, then the public sector was complete, then the NGO, and also the Chamber of Commerce, so they're all for it. Why? First of all because of the improvement, so there won't be a grey economy, because there's been a lot of malfeasance, later on, I'll talk about our neighbours, then transparency, then reducing the administration, and also the speed of savings, but what's most important is the environmental moment. What should be pointed out is that, above all, this is completely free of charge, that citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not care, means free of charge, and for the public sector, it will be mandatory to start an electronic invoice from 1 January 2022, and for the private sector from 1 January 2023. It means improvement for the Republic of Serbia at all times. As far as our neighbors are concerned, we have feedback on what it looks like when you introduce an electronic invoice. For example, Greece has pleaded and Greeks have lost four billion euros thanks to poor invoices, in terms of malfeasance. Croatia has pleaded on this issue and said it has received 350m euros since it introduced the electronic administration, i.e. electronic invoices, so 350m euros have been won. Also, Austria came forward, said it won speed, transparency, savings, reduction of administration. So, one great law and I'll be happy to vote for it. Now, something a little different, namely, let's remember yesterday, when half a million vaccines came directly to the airport "Nikola Tesla" from China, which is two and a half million vaccines, as regards the People's Republic of China, we received a total of three million vaccines. Thanks to the tenacity, the perseverance of the government of the Republic of Serbia and our president of Serbia, there are four types of vaccines. We are the best in the world and should be told to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, yet 58, 60% of the citizens voted for us, I think that when elections are next year, it will be 70%. Why? Because in Serbia today, 34% of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been vaccinated, because only the vaccine can defeat this monster called Kovid-19. Indeed, if anyone else has scruples for other people, they should be vaccinated. After all, on one of the TVs, Mr. Maric, a sexologist, who had the accident to end up on machines and was an anti-vaxer. Yesterday he publicly called for all people to be vaccinated, because that agony he went through wants to happen to no one. Also, we need to remind ourselves three days ago, Mr. Vukic has just opened one factory, one that my dear colleague, who spoke before me, has opened one factory every month, perhaps two in the Republic of Serbia. Personally, he opened it himself over 230 factories, and now we have a contract, and there's going to be a factory in Novi Sad, and I'm going to talk about it later. A factory was opened in Smederjevska Palanca. In 2008, 400,000 people were fired, 26% unemployment, today 2021 employed 400,000 people, and unemployment was 7.3%, due to the pandemic and everything that was happening to us now is 9%. I'm sure when we beat this pandemic we'll have a European average, and that's 5% unemployed in a couple of years. Serbia will be the perfect place to live. Let's just remind ourselves of the salary, the average salary was 320 euros, and in 2012, today it's 540 euros, with a tendency to be 900 euros in 2025. What I still have to point out, because it is very important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, nothing has been done in Smederjevska Palanca for 60 years, they have not had a single investment for 60 years. A factory opened and South Korean company Kiung Shig Kebl opened the factory, where 700 people will be employed by the end of 2022. There are 249 people working here today, of which 200 women. 20m euros have been invested with a tendency to continue co-operation with South Korea. Otherwise, this factory in Smederjevska Palanca will operate batteries for electric cars, which will be placed in the EU, i.e. across Europe. Also, a contract was made with a Japan firm called the Niedek Corporation. It is one of the largest companies in the world that employs over 120,000 people, works in 40 countries and will invest in the construction of the 72m-euro factory to start. Otherwise, it is planned to invest a billion and a half euros across Europe, half of which will go to the Republic of Serbia. Good for the government of the Republic of Serbia and for Mr. Vukic. This is an extraordinary moment and I can only say that this is how it should be done, that those who were in power until 2012 – either, it has never happened again and that it will never happen again in Serbia that 400,000 people are out of work overnight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5893	I thank Mrs. Malusic. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5894	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, all that aims to improve the business environment, improve efficiency, efficiency of work, especially the private sector in our country, and, of course, better co-operation with state institutions, will have the support of the majority. Therefore, it will have the support of the SNS and all of this on behalf of the improvement of the business environment and the possibility of particularly domestic, micro-small and medium-sized enterprises developing, to be more competitive, and of course to continue with a policy of fiscal discipline and policy that has a main objective of stability, both public finance and a policy that provides capital investment and all that comes as a result of paying larger amounts of taxes, higher amounts of contributions, all that companies in the Republic of Serbia pay. When it comes to this set of laws that we have on the agenda today, all that goes in favor of making small, medium and large companies more efficient, to make them save time, energy and people, to have much more time for innovation, to improve their own products, their own business and management, not to do much red tape, the administration, of course, has the support of all of us in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, therefore speaking on behalf of the SNS. Because of this and because of such an approach, we have managed to develop our economy in a truly maestro way in the past few years, to implement and implement very difficult and painful economic reforms, and to make one society that was very strong, when it comes to economics, tromo, very badly quoted in the region itself, without talking about a European and global level, to make one very living business, one society and one environment in which they literally compete to invest investors from all over the world, so across the globe. My colleagues talked a lot about it, I don't want to say it again, but Serbia is today in fact an economic hub, an investment hub in which very much they are investing companies from Asia, from the Middle East and the United States, from the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation. So, a country that is receptive to investment, a country where all these investors who have honest and honest intentions, who want to fertilise their capital, are very happy to invest for several reasons. That's because we have stability, because we have political stability, because we have a very responsible leadership thanks to the leadership, thanks to President Alexander Vukic. But here we're talking about having one great fiscal policy and finally, I think for the first time in decades, Serbia has what it is, when it comes to the economy and when it comes to tax policy, what's most important, people who have a sensitivity to it, thanks to you ministers and your team at the ministry, and that's that all the businessmen who want to invest, who want to work and get into the competition can predict what's going to happen in six months, in a year, in two or five years' time in the domain of fiscal policy. I must point out that fiscal policy is very encouraging in Serbia. This is one of the very important reasons why Serbia has much more in the past few years of open businesses than closed businesses, I am talking about domestic firms, and why we have so many levels of foreign direct investment that in 2020, despite the pandemic, despite very difficult global operating conditions, despite a huge economic and health crisis, we have more than three billion euros of foreign direct investment, which makes up even about 67% of total investment in the whole region. Of course we have to mention the fact that we did very well at the time of this crisis caused by the coronary virus, in a situation where many countries that are much more developed, I will only mention, let's say, Austria, Israel, countries that have had huge economic growth and a strong economy, whose GDP is measured by hundreds of billions of euros, they have come to that level in just a few months since the start of the pandemic to have more than twenty percent of the unemployed. Serbia has not crossed this magical border all this time, therefore, that unemployment has gone above 10%, but thanks to one brave, primarily brave and wise policy conducted by President Vukic, but of course also the Ministry of Finance, we have supported them to maintain themselves at that time of the pandemic, to maintain the level of their business and what is most important for us as a party, to maintain jobs for employees, but not just to maintain several tens of thousands of companies that have been at risk for several months, but precisely what is being done today, to make room for a quantum leap in 2021. We can now see that, when it comes to the health system, thanks to the very well-being of President Vukic and the State's leadership, we can expect in two to three months that the state of health will be completely normalised, that the country will be fully opened and that, of course, the economy will be able to work at full capacity. If we do that and if we start with such growth and business dynamics and work in June or July, we can really expect a projected economic growth of 6%, but I would say that we might be expected to do something better. We have to be optimistic. This optimism and combination of optimism, knowledge, commitment, investment of huge energy in the development of our economy and economy has actually resulted in all investors who wanted to invest in Serbia, they kept their position, they wanted to invest here and, of course, all those investments are being realised. It remains, of course, to be persistent about a firm position on tax policy. I must, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, mention this fact that in 2012, as far as I can remember, somewhere around 69% was the charge of value added tax and that is only because the government then, the government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the people who led the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration did not behave in a host way. You had privileged companies, you had privileged individuals who could enforce the law and who could do everything that most citizens and most companies and businesses couldn't do in the Republic of Serbia. So you had one protected caste of businessmen, what do I call them - tycoon, who could do whatever they wanted in the domain of the economy, even if they didn't pay taxes. Can someone today give an example, one man, one company that can be a public finance minister or anyone in the IRS and come with a request not to pay taxes or not to pay what is prescribed by law and what has been prescribed by a certain state institution to pay? He can't. And that's why this whole digitalisation project, fiscalization, is actually in favour of no longer being able to be the ones who are privileged, because when it enters into one information system, there is no more direct contact, no more possibility of not being done and of not fulfilling that obligation that all citizens, and especially that economy has to do with this country. I particularly respect that policy and your position, Minister Mali, because I think that this is the only time that this country has stable public finances, so the path that implies equal opportunities, equal rules and finally Serbia has become one country that has defined clear rules for all players and that is one of the reasons why Serbia has the highest level of foreign direct investment and why more and more people in Serbia, so the people who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia define to start certain entrepreneurial and economic initiatives, open their companies, open their companies, start to work, of course, in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia, the way they should, and more literally, no one thinks that they can behave in a way or that they can do it through certain corrupt arrangements to pay, without paying the state what it is necessary to pay and what is legally prescribed. This is what makes clearly differentiation between the regime that reigned until 2012 and that of Serbia that we have done today, thanks to our President Aleksandr Vukic, the country of work, the country of discipline, the country in which everyone has equal rights, equal opportunities and, of course, equal chances. It's the only time that our economy is moving forward, it's the only way, it's simple, today we have that opportunity and that situation that we can boast that from our budget, 7.2% of the money goes to capital investment, so the highest percentage, the highest level of money invested in infrastructure, which is invested in highways, which is invested in railways, which is invested in soft infrastructure, building schools, hospitals, all that is needed for our citizens to have a better quality of life and to live in well-being. So, as we mentioned the other day, more jobs, will you be able to get a job when you graduate from college or trade, it is no longer a question that is so important, because there are opportunities, because of a large number of investors, a large number of companies that work and invest here in Serbia, we are now engaged in some other things, such as environmental protection and some other things that, of course, have nothing to do with what actually marked the rule of the regime that ruled from 2000 to 2012, which is a naked survival for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the struggle for the workplace and the inability to get to work, unless, on the basis of some nepotism, on the basis of some related and party ties, you could get a job in some state company or state administration, which is, of course, thanks to the SNS, and with this practice interrupted, we want public administration and the state administration of Serbia, which is the best possible to be the Republic of Serbia, which is the Republic of Serbia and the state. So, I think that all that is introduced when it comes to tax collection in the Republic of Serbia and fiscal discipline, that it is a turning point in our country's economic development, and we can, with this policy and this balanced, optimal rates of tax that are in force in our country, expect a new wave of foreign direct investment, both in this and of course in the coming years, by showing that for the first time in the history of our country's economic life, we have introduced special taxes, for example, for seasonal workers. We've solved the Frillers issue now, when it comes to paying taxes. So we include all social and economic groups and we don't do it casually, we don't do it from cabinets, it's a very important thing, because the logic of this government and this ministry and this majority of parliament are that everyone pays taxes and that everyone can do it honestly and honestly, that they hire honest and honest people who work with them and that they absolutely don't have to worry about whether the tax police or the financial police will knock on their doors, as they did with people who, when it comes to seasonal jobs, who didn't even have the opportunity to pay taxes for workers and those who come to them to work on a daily, weekly or monthly level during the season. So this shows one strategic, systematic approach by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this authority, to solve in one encouraging way the problem which was decades old in the Republic of Serbia, which is that some were not subject to the rule and obligation to pay taxes, all kinds of taxes and, on the other hand, that this tax policy would be such that we experience what is called a tax ejaculation in economic theory, which is that they are so high and so unsuitable, that one good part of the businessmen must in fact avoid it. That is why we will continue, as people who have feelings and who simply realize that the development of the economy and the development of the economy, simply “Condicio Sin quo non” the development of our country, the development of the entire region, therefore, is a condition of all conditions, and we will continue to support every reform law. Any reform move that comes from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, particularly from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will affect that the businessmen have a better environment, that they can employ more and, of course, in this second domain one clearer picture and fiscal, therefore, tax discipline and discipline regarding economic life and what businesses in the whole country should adhere to, respecting this state, but insisting that the state respects them. It is the policy of the SNS, it is the policy of President Alexander Vukic, who for the main purpose and I am going to finish, there is, which is very simple, there is, and this is a job, these are new factories, these are new investments and simply a permanent policy that ensures that, from day to day, Serbia becomes an even more attractive destination for investments, for investments, for new factories and for new plants from month to month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5895	Thank you, Professor Marinkovic. The word has the Soul Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5896	President-in-Office, respected ministers, dear fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, Serbia is reforming and changing for the better every day, Serbia is today a modern country that is heading towards modern economic trends and when it comes to creating a more favourable business environment, but also when it comes to facilitating and speeding up business. With this in mind today, we are discussing a very important law that is the proposal for an electronic invoice law, and this law follows the best practice of moving to electronic business that is applied by developed countries of the world as Serbia tends, which apply many EU member states. This is not our obligation as an EU accession country, when it comes to harmonising our regulations, with EU regulations and compliance with directives, but we, above all, want to show this law and to give a significant impulse to our private and public enterprises, to create a better business environment and to facilitate and speed up business, to reduce all those risks, and also to reduce, I would simply say, the cost of time that allows us the digitalisation process itself. I would like to remind all citizens of Serbia that Serbia is exactly the leader in the process of digitising Southeast Europe, and undoubtedly a leader in the Western Balkans. Also, the basic question that arises when you read this text of the law and what it is about electronic business and electronic invoices, and which are benefits from the introduction of an electronic invoice for the economy in Serbia, not only for private companies, but also for public companies operating in our country. Electronic invoiceing is basically an account, without the use of paper, that means that all processes and covers traditional paper invoices can now be performed via electronic devices, by computer, smartphones and the like, while the exchange of such accounting documents can be done electronically, meaning, via the Internet. The European Commission has indeed sponsored two documents on the basis of which an electronic invoice is being produced in Serbia. These two documents support the application of the e-booking directive in public procurement, which really defines this e-booking law in more detail. There are all our obligations in Chapter 5 concerning public procurement. The state wants to make one serious, I would say systemically manage the area of sending, receiving and keeping an electronic invoice and has been given a deadline by January 2023 for the entire private sector to be obliged to qualify for the reception and sending of electronic invoices. For the public sector, you've set some shorter deadlines. Along with the Fiscalisation Act and this Law on Electronic Exclusion, it is two system laws that will greatly improve Serbia's environment, ensure greater legal certainty and facilitate business in the reputation of many EU member states. For a clearer picture, you ministers, in your opening statement, spoke of the world having more than 550 billion electronic invoices. I came up with data that more than 35 billion invoices were issued in the EU Member States only during 2015. When we talk about Europe, I primarily think about European businesses and EU Member States, over 17 billion e-factures were made annually, in 2015, which accounted for 24%. There is a simple hunger for electronic invoices, and they will have growth in use in practice in these years, not only when it comes to business with the population, but also when it comes to the business of companies and Member States themselves. Most economic advantages and essentials come not only from press and postage costs, but from above all comes, these economic aspects that facilitate the process of using an electronic invoice, lead to this automation, integration of the whole process from the beginning to the end. You can control today by introducing an electronic invoice the entire process from order to payment, by reducing the risk of business by reducing the risk of time and speeding up the business itself. Also, the introduction of an e-facture really has multiple advantages, not only for the economy but also for the citizens, but also for the Republic of Serbia itself. These advantages are seen in the transparency of the process itself, the reduction of payment delays, fewer errors, because it is digital format, the cost of the press is reduced, the processing is integrated, the return of VAT for the economy is faster, more legal certainty, the certainty of investment, which makes the country a more attractive environment for direct foreign investment, but also for investments by domestic businessmen. Also, there are numerous savings in time, operating costs. A good example of this, I found at the National Alliance for Local Economic Development in the preparation of today’s presentation, was a good example in one of its publications, which speaks best how the use of an electronic invoice will reduce the costs of a company’s business. In NAED's brochure, one trade chain generates about 2.5 million documents each year, each with an average of four lists. With paper costing half and toner one euro cent, it results in printing ten million pages annually costing up to 150 000 euros. And where are the costs of warehouses, the costs of storage invoices, closet costs, shelves, registries, paying workers, paying electricity, paying for the service of this business. So in this one case, simply plastic, you can see what the benefits are when it comes to the introduction of electronic invoices and how we're going to come up with a reduction in time and a reduction in the costs of doing business itself. In addition to reducing costs and reducing the cost of time, we can also talk about reducing the risk of business and greater efficiency that the introduction of electronic invoices in practice, in the business of our public companies, public enterprises and the private sector in practice will enable us to do so. This greater efficiency goes in the direction of better customer payments in time, improving the collection of invoices, then the risks, there will be a reduction of risk, we will no longer have those situations in practice that we had to misread the date of the invoice, to lose the invoice, to have a problem with the authenticity or integrity of the invoice itself, because precisely electronic invoices put it aside. Also, the additional application of the electronic invoice can expect to reduce these administrative costs that existed in practice when you look at the entire business chain not only publishers and recipients of the invoice but also all other participants in the business, participants such as the state, tax administration and customs. The advantage of e-facture can also be enjoyed by end users, receiving and keeping electronic invoices is significantly easier than those of traditional paper. A very important aspect of the e-facture system is to be in line with the requirements for the protection of personal and private data and to protect against possible abuses of the giving of business secrets or business data. I, ministers today, in preparation for my presentation today, have indeed watched and what the associations have given you as proposals during the organisation of public debates. The Association of the Accounting Chamber of Serbia expressed some kind of fear that data could be misused or available to competition in the application of these information intermediaries, which you explained in your opening statement well and said that this would not happen in practice. Also, this law represents a kind of newspaper and in our legal system has passed, as I said, a large number of public debates have passed, where all relevant factors and actors in our system have been able to engage in a constructive debate, you have extended and provided additional deadlines for both the public sector and the business sector, allowing more time for them to prepare for the introduction of electronic invoices in their business in time. And, finally, it is important to mention, no less significant advantages of electronic invoices, which goes towards protecting the environment from traditional paper invoices, because the most significant impact is to reduce paper consumption, and in this way we will preserve our forests, we will reduce energy consumption to transport, and therefore, we will also have lower emissions of harmful gases that would lead to carbon dioxide reduction. So in addition to these economic factors, these environmental factors and aspects are important to us because we have to think about what kind of planet we leave to our offspring. By adopting an electronic invoice law, we will give a significant impulse to Serbia's economy, the public sector as well, we will enable more business and better and faster VAT collection, benefiting all on the one hand from Serbia's state, on the other hand, businesses and public enterprises, which will now be able to move faster with their VAT refund money. We know that the time is money and that any acceleration of business and ease of business in the future will have truly multiple benefits, not only for the business sector in Serbia, but for the whole state of Serbia and all its citizens. With a better VAT charge, the money will flow into the state register and more kindergartens, schools, highways, more bridges will be built in Belgrade, we will be able to build the subway, we will have faster railways and everything we lack to ensure better quality of life and survival, and I would say staying in our country, so in the day to vote, the SNS will support this set of financial laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5897	I thank Mrs Stojkovic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5898	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Dr Orlic, Honored Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since colleagues and colleagues have mostly said everything you could say about this set of laws, let me just say a few sentences, to say that an exceptional set of these laws is very important for our economy, which is very important, because they need to improve the business environment, which will contribute to overall modernisation and economic growth and speed up the process of modernising the Republic of Serbia especially in the time of implementation of the programme of the accelerated modernisation process from 2020 to 2025. The use of e invoice systems is free, as Mr. Minister said, of the system is implemented in phases, the first and second phases as we saw from January 1st 2022 and the second since January 1st 2023, and so on. I must say, the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, that our political opponents, depicted in one part of the opposition, were against digitization and you remember very well in this high home of problems and about the introduction of the Internet into schools, etc., which was a crazy idea. However, they did not just oppose digitisation, but all that is advanced and beneficial, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the Republic in general. I will mention only a few cases to see the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see what they were up against, against Belgrade on water, and today they are against it, which is the pearl of Belgrade and Serbia, and of this part, if you want Europe, against the revitalisation of Jelizara Smederevo. Now that we're in Smederev, and the Smederev Palace, someone mentioned today, and let me say that the desolation was left in the Smederjev Palace. We had here a folk MP named Milojičić, who was also the president of the municipality and who for one evening, as you remember, we were out on water and coffee alone spent 107,000 in a cafe, and later on 200 and some thousand, and with that, we came across a graphite that read, and I didn't forget it – the truth is alive, there's no beer in Palanca. All that's left is foam, drank by yellow Ken. And the beer was expensive, I drank it, I bought it, I drank the coffee shop, the budget pays everything, I'm the yellow Ken from the Glibovac. You see, respected citizens, at the Smederjevska Palace, today is a factory with 700 workers, the SNS works, headed by Aleksandra Vukic, and so has the DS and the former regime, headed by Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic and other friends. While I'm at Vuk Jeremic's, let me tell you about this unfortunate Wolf Jeremic, otherwise a member of a group of thieves and con men, that he's suddenly become a sheep farmer. Believe it or not, respected citizens, Jeremic is used to boasting in New York, spending money there with his friends. Now suddenly he moved to the country, to the barn, took the lamb and breast-feed the lambs, etc. That's probably what you saw on Twitter these days, and she's trying to get a job for her colleague Marijana Risticevic. Speaking of which, he is constantly, constantly lying about the state of Serbia and the SNS, to President Aleksandar Vukic. So on February 1st, 2021, he accused President Vukic of making promises to President Makron to Kosovo's chair, the UN, and, of course, as you saw, he lied. That's what he said, without the shame of Wolf Jeremic and without a bit of morality. It is Vuk Jeremic who is constantly working for the sharps and for the surrender of Kosovo and Metohija, to the Shiptars, not Aleksandar Vukic. Speaking of which, I'd like to clear about Vuk Jeremic around Kosovo and Metohija. Since his arrival at the head of Serbian diplomacy, as you know, respected MPs have been constantly working to transfer KIM talks from the UN to the EU, bringing the EULEX mission to KIM. Both he and Dragan Djilas, and Boris Tadic, then stabbed themselves in the back of their own country. When Kosovo's unilateral independence was illegally declared in 2008, Jeremic did not take any effective measures against Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence, although the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the unconstitutional unilateral declaration, declared independence unconstitutional, did not take any action. On the occasion of recognition of Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence by the Islamic Conference, believe it or not, Vuk Jeremic gave only one sentence an expression of disappointment to the Islamic Conference secretary and that is all he did as foreign minister. Jeremic called Kosovo's unilateral independence a precedent before the OSCE and appealed to the OSCE calling for Resolution 1244. The UN Security Council, instead of then calling for a 1975 final document from Helsinki, which explicitly found that the provinces of the Republic of Serbia do not have the right to gain independence. He didn't do it on purpose. Jeremic then failed to request an urgent UN Security Council meeting over a violation of the UN Charter. Can you believe he didn't ask for it then? Jeremic deliberately gave up funds to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Now you see who was working against Serbia's interests and against the interests of our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Jeremic deliberately kicked out of the motion for a resolution seeking the opinion of the International Court of Justice to quote exactly what it said: "A unilateral secession cannot be an acceptable way to resolve territorial issues" concluded a quote. Instead, on purpose, in the evening, he put in a position that reads: "Is Pristina's decision to unilaterally resolve declared independence in accordance with international law? “ A quote was completed, and he stabbed himself in the back of his own country. That Jeremic worked for Pristina, not Serbia, was confirmed by a prominent US magazine for international relations, "National Interest", which writes these days that Jeremic made the biggest mistake in 2008 that led to Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence not declaring itself a separatist act. Here, and the Americans, their distinguished magazine really admits it. Every year on 27.10. glory as one of the largest dates of the so-called Kosovo's statehood. Because on that very day, Pristina received a legal argument to push its so-called independence to the end. The Cypriot leadership in Pristina sees Vuk Jeremic as the creator of the most important paper in the hands of so-called so-called "Second People's Republic". Kosovo independence. Dear citizens, Jeremic wrote in the author's text, believe it or not, but it is true, for the French daily "Mont" 17.7.2018 on the day the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic visited France and accused, believed it or not, but the state of Serbia and its president to spread stability in the Balkans. Thus, honourable MPs, President of France Makron was able to read on the day of his meeting with Alexander Vukic the worst charges against our country of the Republic of Serbia and its president, Alexander Vukic. Jeremic, in the authorial text of "Washington Post" in July 2017, most brutally insulted the state of Serbia again and its president, Aleksandr Vukic, before his meeting with US Vice President Michael Pens, the citizens were shocked by this unpatriotic act by Vuk Jeremic. Whenever the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic was scheduled to visit the statesman of the great world countries, he stabbed himself in the back of his own country. Jeremic said in a conversation with US congressman Ted Po in December 2008, that, I quote: "The entry of Kosovo and Metohija into the UN is the best that Serbia can hope for if it is lucky. “ A quote has been completed, and by doing so, the Wolf of Jeremiah has become the traitorous bastards of our country. Here, respected citizens, as you can see who is betraying Kosovo and Metohija. Jeremic said in a conversation with Rocen, adviser Milo Djukanovic "with mother Serbia. “ A quote was completed at a time when he was an adviser to Boris Tadic. Respected citizens of Serbia, here and yesterday, the president reported, the EU will help build a railway line in Belgrade -- Nis-Skoplje, one of the largest infrastructure facilities in the next five years. Serbia is building and working. From what I was saying about Vuk Jeremic, it is evident that the Wolf of Jeremic is a great pest for our country. It is a traitorous bastard to deal with the prosecution of the Republic of Serbia over the economic and political subjugation of our country and the breaking of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. By contrast, Aleksandar Vukic, the president of the state is a major Serbian reformer, an engine for the accelerated modernisation of our country, a great Serb patriot and a great Serbian statesman, a builder and defender of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who will never do anything to harm the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5899	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5900	Thank you, Chairman, colleague Orlic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that Serbian citizens and citizens in today's debate were able to hear certain political messages from this high House, as well as newspapers related to a set of economic laws aimed at improving our economy and society, aimed at improving Serbia's economic environment and changing the functioning of our economic system. The proposal for a law on electronic invoices should improve digitisation, make a significant step in the fight against corruption, the fight against the gray economy, the establishment of our legal system and the improvement of legal certainty, but should allow visibility and transparency between public and private entities in Serbia. The establishment of transparency through the draft law on electronic invoices, such as my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, should be phased out and this is very important because of the mandatory recording of value added tax accounts in the electronic invoice system. The aim of this law is to facilitate daily work, save time and reduce production costs. It is doubtless that the proposal for this law will facilitate the work of the Tax Administration, that it will contribute to the acceleration of the specific process as well as the operationality of the users. This law is also important from the aspect of environmental protection for the use of reducing paper invoices. It is no doubt that this law will, when voted in this high House, contribute to the resolution of many problems, but it is important that after the adoption of this law, a time is passed to ensure the education of all market participants. It is up to us as MPs to bring this law closer and propose a set of laws to all target groups. The law is in line with EU fluids. He practically took examples of best functioning from the EU and is in line with companies located in the territory of EU member states. In the application of this law, it is important that it be brought down to the locality, it is important that the working group with the resolution ministry held several discussions, public hearings were held in this high House and that representatives of Serbia's public and private sector representatives were able to deliver their proposals and that many of these proposals were introduced into this bill. The challenge is to apply this law in rural areas and the possibility of accessing the Internet in these areas. The challenge is also respecting the contract between businesses and information intermediaries. I believe that sublegal acts and penalties are provided for if there are violations of the terms of those contracts. What is very important to point out when it comes to the proposal for a law on electronic invoicery is that using an electronic invoice system is free of charge, that the entire state has put all its resources for this law, for the application of this law. It is important to point out that the proposal for this law avoids additional costs. I believe that this law, which is most important to me, will reveal in application all illegal transactions, that it will reveal potential malfeasances and that it will not allow the accumulation of money through the company, such as in Mauritius or some Virgin and some other islands, as we have seen in the past period from Dragan Gilas. This set of proposed laws, with adopted rebalancing, should provide us with new jobs in this pandemic, should allow us to continue to open new factories, to have bigger foreign direct investments. I believe that the Law on Electronic Purchase, along with the proposed economic laws, with rebalancing, is an important step for society as a whole. In voting day, I will support this proposed set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5901	Thank you. National MP Rajka Matovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5902	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have a set of financial laws ahead of us. We've heard a lot today in an extensive debate at the tide of my colleagues and from you, Minister, about the law itself. With this set of laws, we improve the business environment in Serbia, especially the Law on electronic invoices. As we could hear in the opening address, this law reduces unnecessary costs of issuing the invoices themselves. In addition to saving money, we have a cut in time, because in the next period we won't need to have a bunch of paper that's been loaded with business. This is huge progress for our economy, and it's in the process of digitization. This system is already widely applicable in Europe itself. It is very important to note that a gradual adjustment will be made to all operators in the VAT system and to this law on the issue and receipt of electronic invoices. Since 1.1.2022, all public sector entities will be obliged to receive and deliver electronic invoices. Since 1.7.2022, all economic operators will be trained to deal with electronic invoices, and from 1 January 2023, all economic operators will be obliged to operate with electronic invoices. Also, what is very important is that the application of this law does not require additional funds, because this system will be free of charge. It is very important that the use of electronic invoices increases business transparency, but also facilitates, as the VAT accounting process itself will be automated. The next law on the central register of electronic invoices makes sense to continue exactly this previous Law on electronic invoices. As the entities are equipped and entered into the electronic invoice system, it will also be recorded in the electronic invoice register itself. The law that is also in front of us is also the law on amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. The aim of this law is finally to regulate social capital in insurance companies. The law stipulates that the social capital found in insurance houses is converted into action because the social capital of the Constitution does not recognise. This law enables them to operate by law, a transparent type of business, but also greater competitiveness on the market. When the crisis began, caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, we as a state did not wave at billions we do not have. On the contrary, we took a sober and safe and realistic view of the situation and took the best package of measures to help the economy and society for which we had the funds. Last week, we adopted a budget here, or budget rebalance, which provides for a third package of measures to help the economy and society. It is predicted to support the economy, and the state has taken over most of the burden of the crisis on itself so that we do not have mass layoffs, which, unfortunately, we have had the opportunity to see across Europe during the crisis. Our economy did not stop during 2020 and during the crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, but on the contrary, during 2020 we had an increase in employment and a decrease in unemployment on the one hand, and on the other hand we had an increase in average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. The third package of measures is directed in three directions. On the one hand, we have the help of the economy and the assistance of society, through assistance to businesses on the one hand, and on the other hand, every full-time citizen who wishes to do so will be paid twice a 30-euro grant of one-off aid to pensioners, an additional 50 euros, and another 60 euros will be paid to unemployed people. I have to point out that tonight, at midnight, there's an application for these grants. I'm inviting all citizens to sign up. Then, the state will single out significant investments in large capital projects, because capital projects are what attracts the economy and economy of a country. Finally, but perhaps most importantly, this rebalance defines the funds and expects us to invest much more in the health sector, so nearly one billion euros in healthcare will be allocated this year. We have seen how our country has been able to cope with the pandemic of the coronal virus and the global crisis, that in a very short time we have built two coves of the hospital in Batajnica and Kruševec, and we are expected to build another cove of the hospital in Novi Sad, that among the first countries we have provided vaccines for our citizens, but we have managed to provide vaccines of four different manufacturers and citizens have the option to choose which vaccine they want to vaccinate. I can't help but look at the fact that the ruined economy was left by representatives of the yellow company, because our country couldn't have been so strong as to counter the crisis that in 2014 Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic did not bring harsh measures and did not seek to consolidate public finances. I will remind the citizens how and how much Dragan Gilas damaged the citizens of Belgrade while he was mayor. He tasked citizens of Belgrade with over 1.2 billion euros. In 2014, when we took over power in the capital, debt in the area of social protection amounted to over 46m euros, 121m dinars were owed at that time to the socially endangered, 389m pregnant and over six million births. That's how Dragan Gilas treated the most sensitive categories of society when he was mayor. Today, he is only able to make negative comments about everything the government does. The proof of this is that today, Ministers, the court has rejected criminal charges against you for your statement, so I will quote you – I believe in my arguments and that Dragan Gilas robbed the city of Belgrade, I believe that he has achieved a great benefit to himself while the city sinks, which further implies that you were then absolutely telling the truth. We remember that this same Dragan Gilas criticised both vaccines and the vaccination process, and that he stood among the first in line to be vaccinated. To be clear, everyone should be vaccinated absolutely, but it would be fair of that Dragan Gilas to say – every honour you have on secure vaccines, on built hospitals, on the continuation of construction of new highways, on major capital projects and foreign investments. But the people see everything and know everything and know that they recognize who really works in the interests of the people, and who works in the interests of his own pocket and his own wealth. I would appeal once again to all citizens to be vaccinated because mass immunization is the only way out of this crisis. By passing a set of these laws, we digitise business in Serbia, increase transparency, and, on the other hand, reduce time for administrative procedures. I will vote in the day, along with my colleagues, support the set of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-27-0.u5903	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered, I ask if any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups, the committee's rapporteurs or the proposing representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 7 to 10 of the agenda. Tomorrow, 10:00 p.m., we'll move on with our work. In the morning part of the session, we will have a joint single search on three international agreements and after a break of discussion on the details of the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Income Tax and Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, after which it will be a day to vote, i.e. voting on these points of the agenda. I remind you once again that I scheduled a meeting of inter-party dialogue with political parties that do not want the participation of foreigners, which will be held here in the small National Assembly hall. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the ninth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask everyone to insert the cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 110 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I'd like to inform you that the session has been prevented from being attended by the People's Parliament of the Government of the Inhabitant. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 11 to 13 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Siniš Mali, Finance Minister Angelka Atanaskovic, Minister of Business, Daniela Vazura and Gojko Stanivovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Snezana Karanovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, and Ana Jovic, Assistant Minister of Finance. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, I open a joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on mutual recognition of the AEO Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and the Credit Management Programme of the Company General Customs Administration of the People's Republic of China, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on the Promotion of Investments between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of America and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex 1 of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on Co-operation in the area of implementation of priority projects in the Republic of Serbia. Before I give my word to the Proposer's representative, Minister Sinishi Malo, I would just like to inform you that, according to what we mentioned yesterday, the agenda for today is to finish everything, including the vote, by 4:00 p.m. So we won't have a break, which is always from 2 p.m. to 15.00 p.m. due to the need to have a meeting at 17.00 p.m. with political parties within the interparty dialogue. So we will complete a joint single search of these three agreements and, in particular, these remaining two laws and that the vote will then be accordingly, as soon as it is completed and no later than 1600 hours. The word is Minister Mali. Here you go.
