ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 103 MPs attend the session, but I remind you at the same time that most of the total number of MPs are required, that it is a quorum for work, so I invite you to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yes, the word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10821	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I will ask a question concerning all of us, concerning every citizen living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is the status of soldiers under contract, or professional soldiers who serve and work in our army. We all know that our peasants defended and fed our country, defended and fed our people, and were always on the defensive side of the country when it was the hardest. A large number of our people living in the country, living in the city, have been on their way for 90 years to be soldiers under contract, or professional soldiers. Now in the territory of Serbia, we have enough of these people who are ready to work at any moment and to protect every citizen of ours, so where he lives, whether in Srlig, Nis, whether in Tutin, Sjenica, whether in Subotica, Prepolje, it is important that they are ready in every place and at every moment to work and to protect every citizen. When the fires, when they're flooded, when it's most difficult there's our army, there's our officers and officers and these men, soldiers by contract or professional soldiers. Now, as far as equipment and everything else is concerned, it's a much better situation than it was before, they're much better equipped and they have better conditions, they have better technique and everything they need they deserve. But I think there are certain things that are important to them because ever since the military contract started, I have some information that in 1992 and 1993, there are people who work there, up to three years contracts are signed, then the contract is renewed, some of the soldiers who do this work are very active and normally every three years renewed, there are now some of them who have made over 28, 29 years of work experience. The problem, since nearly 30 years, or 2022, will be 30 years as they started to work, their status as future pensioners, since we know that with a certain number of years when the internship is being sanctioned, so with them the internship has been sanctioned, they have 3 months per year of training, will they have the opportunity to retire? It's a question that these people can calmly tomorrow, because they have served, fought, defended our country, that they can peacefully, as the others who have worked in the military, the police, that they too will retire safely. That's one question. The second question for them is the unresolved problem of the housing issue. These people who are officers, i.e. officers and soldiers under contract, do not have the opportunity to use loans to resolve the housing issue because they are not in a permanent working relationship. It's one very difficult thing, because they want to solve their living issue. There's no way I can do that. The big thing for all of them is that every single one of them is a man who is ready to work at any moment and to fight for our country, and they also need to have the right when they're on the ground, to provide them with this separate life. I think they need the opportunity to do that and they have the right to do that. Once again, my fellow colleagues, this is a matter of the Ministry of Defense, whether it will be possible for those of our soldiers who are under contract, or professional soldiers, to provide the same conditions that they may have the right tomorrow as everyone else to work 20, 25, 30 years with an internship that has been benefits, to retire, and not tomorrow when that internship is completed, that they do not have the right to retire, but they have to work somewhere, and they have worked and served their homeland for 30 years. That's one thing. The other thing is solving a housing issue and these are basic things for their work. A large number of our soldiers under contract are these previous years because of the situation and need, let's say, there's the biggest problem of those soldiers who work as drivers, they broke up their working relationship and went to work for some major incomes. Because, once again, I have great confidence in our country, in our president, because they are witnesses that our army is going the right way. In previous years, it really went much better, from 2012 to 2014, and even after that, big funds were really invested in our army, in our technique, in our tools, in our weapons. Once again, my question is – will we be able to resolve the status of these soldiers in agreement, or professional soldiers in the coming period, because of their need for both our country and everything else and for their own sake? Once again, thank you and the president of Serbia, we expect today to solve what is best for our country Serbia in Sochi. Thank you all and great support for Serbian President Alexander Vukic to fight for everything that is needed for our country of Serbia, and we are all here to work with him in the interests of all our citizens. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10822	Thank you. The word is Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10823	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, today is International Day Against Violence Against Women and I would like to draw attention to this planetary problem. According to the World Health Organization's latest analyses, every third woman in the world is experiencing physical or sexual violence during his life. That's over 736 million women. About other forms of violence, such as mental or economic, that we don't, because I don't think we have relevant data. To express myself medically, this problem has a pandemic condition, but this pandemic torture, unfortunately, causes me to be a man, not a virus. The fundamental question is what is it that in the patriarchate, which is the dominant form of family and partner relations, makes men different forms of violence against women? The fight against all forms of violence against women has turned into numerous international documents. Each state has its own national documents to eradicate this social monster, whose victim is a woman in every sense of that word. She suffers, is severely injured or mentally vulnerable. She's often silent and unprotected. In doing so, she has no solution. She suffers a bully, probably and all the time hoping, studies say it won't happen again and she's afraid he'll take away her children or hurt her children, and she's constantly feeling guilty because she's afraid of condemning the public. Her life has often been ruined and the most brutal outcome of such violence is murder. Statistics in Serbia in the past 10 years say 340 women have been killed by partners. Over the past years, 22 have been killed, and for the first six months of this year, 11. The truth is, as a state and a society, we've done a lot in the fight against this monster, but I think there's still work to be done. Many children have lost their mothers, many women have become disabled, and as a result, they are not working today. It's simple, we have to, and it's our duty today to draw attention to this civilization problem, from this pay phone to appeal to all relevant institutions, including ourselves, to look back and see if there's anything else we can do. The most frequently abused woman becomes socially unsecured, jobless and roofed over her head and needs both social and psychological support from the state and society. It is also a fact that good laws have often been known to abuse in this sense, but I will certainly not deal with this problem today. I'd like to ask the government about another vulnerable category of our citizens, and these are persons with disabilities. In particular, I draw attention to the problem of hiring disabled people and giving them the chance to be useful members of both their families and their societies, because they deserve their dignity and their human rights to be respected. The problem is also recognised at the international level, and Serbia has passed the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons in order to alleviate the problem of employment of disabled people as early as 2009. By the beginning of this century, we had in many factories a special workshop where disabled people worked or such workshops were independent business entities that successfully affected them. Today, we have legal obligations for business operators to employ disabled persons, whether they are wartime, military or civilian disabled, peacetime disabled or disabled, who have been evaluated for the remaining work capacity, because many people with disabilities are working in spite of some form of disability, but they cannot work under regular working conditions. Companies, despite the legal obligation, are reluctant to hire disabled people today, even practice shows that they are more willing to pay the penalty for non-compliance with the law than to employ a disabled person, which speaks of the need much more strongly somewhere in social action to solve this problem. Among the disabled are teachers, engineers, workers, artists, and athletes. I'll remind you that our paralympics this summer from the Paralympic Games have brought us six medals, two of which are gold. People with disabilities in Serbia, estimated to be around 700,000, deserve even more attention from the state and in the social protection segment and in the employment segment of those with preserved working potential. Many disabled associations gather disabled people and fight for their rights, but it is the state that systematically has to solve their position. Special attention must be paid to children with permanent disability. To remind me that the Socialist Party Group of Serbia in 2011, when we passed the new Social Protection Act, its amendments, and thanks to the understanding of then Minister Rasim Ljajic, made it clear that a parent who has been caring for his disabled child for 15 years has the right to receive a special pension in the form of a lifelong monthly income at the level of the lowest pension in the insurance of employees, which he begins to use when he fulfils the pension requirement. Our request, truth be told, was that the parent used this fee immediately if he took care of his disabled child for five years. My question, therefore, is – when is it expected to pass a long-published law on social enterprises, which should better address the issue of employment of persons with disabilities, vulnerable groups and victims of violence? Can measures be taken to ensure compliance with the Law on the Employment of Persons by companies who do not respect the Law on Persons with Disabilities? Third, can the state provide certain conditions for the placement of products that disabled people create within their families or associations? For example, if the state provided in every major city a space or store where their products would be sold free of all taxes. Thank you for your tolerance when it comes to time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10824	Thank you. The word is Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10825	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the people, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is clear to me that in Serbia today we have two kinds of policies, one policy for Serbia and one policy against Serbia. It is fortunate that this policy against Serbia is a minority policy in Serbia, a policy of those fighting for the edge of the censorship, which is the policy of Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak. But I cannot understand not reacting to certain institutions of the Trustees and Protectors of citizens and all other NGOs and other state institutions when it comes to hate speech on the streets of Belgrade. We are witnessing that these days we have an invitation to the link, an invitation to not go to the elections, an invitation to block Serbia, an invitation to block highways, an invitation to block all institutions and calls for entry into state institutions. So that's the policy of Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak, and with that, I'm asking my first question today. How do state institutions react to this hate speech on the streets of Belgrade, on the streets of Serbia and this call for a blockade of Serbia? A call for a blockade of Serbia at moments as Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian government struggle for Serbia, at moments when Aleksandar Vukic is preparing to send letters to the heads of government and state regarding Kurti's announcement that Albania and Kosovo and Metohija should be united in an independent state, and at times when our president is meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin to do the best thing for Serbia and its citizens on the issue of gas and energy. Second, my question concerns corruption affairs, as it is clear to Dragan Dilasu, Marinika Tepic, who announces that he will now be their leader on the electoral list and Vuk Jeremic and Šolak and all their fellow Members, Miroslav Aleksic, it is clear to me that they are bothered by all the good that President Vukic and the Serbian Government are doing. I understand that they are bothered with both vaccinations and incentives for the birth and assistance of families and the resolution of the gas crisis in Southeast Europe and the fight for Serbia's national interests and for Kosovo and Metohija, but I do not understand why individuals such as Dragan Gilas have not been processed, and therefore I ask the competent institutions to provide us with any new information concerning the corruption affairs of Dragan Gilas. In fact, it's not even an affair anymore, it's one fact, because we know clearly that a man has taken from Serbian citizens several hundred million euros, and now with some of that money he wants to do, not to change power in Serbia, but to destroy Serbia and to destroy power, which they also publicly say on the streets of Belgrade and through their media that pay and control. So, we expect a clear reaction from the state institutions, and I am asking for it today when the International Day against Violence Against Women, because it is Gilas and Solak and their fellow Members who have instigated violence against women in a number of public appearances. Not to say what they do about violence against the family of Alexander Vukic and the threats they pose to both children and parents and our president's brother. Therefore, I expect a clear reaction from the state institutions, the answers we need to get, and I want to tell the citizens of Serbia -- don't worry, democracy is the will of the people, show the will of the people in April, because it is the will of the people, and the will of the people is the politics of Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10826	Thank you. Since more than one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are not answering for a word, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Milan Urosevic. Before we continue, after the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Amela Lukac Zoranic, elected from the Election List "Academik Muamer Zukorlic – Only Right – The Party of Justice and Reconciliation – the Democratic Party of the Macedonians". On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Amela Lukac Zoranic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask that he prepare himself to take an oath. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the swearing and repeat the text. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of a national envoy with a dedicated, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! "I ask the People's Parliament to sign the text of the oath. Let me congratulate you, on behalf of the Assembly and on my behalf, on your choice and wish you successful work in the current term of office. We're moving on. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I must have the MPs press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote, and I am saying: total – 137 for – 128, it did not vote – nine MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Marija Obradović, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Maja Macužić Puzic, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Saša Mogić, Head of Department of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Milan Culjkovic of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the proposal for a referendum law and a people's initiative. I would like to call on the representative of Prime Minister Marija Obradovic to address it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10827	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. Dear People's Parliaments and People's MPs, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is a pleasure to have the opportunity to address you today and explain the draft law on referendums and the People's Initiative. The importance of the referendum and the people's initiatives is best described in Article 2(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines that sovereignty comes from citizens who hold a referendum, a people's initiative and through their freely elected representatives. The cited provision indicates that the Constitution has given great importance to the referendum and the People's Initiative, such as the forms of direct democracy, i.e. the achievement of civil sovereignty, and that it is a commitment in full compliance with the principles of the Constitution and modern democratic processes in most European and other countries. In this regard, the Venice Commission has recommended in its Opinion on the Constitution of the Republic since March 2007 that it apply Article 203. The Serbian legislator constitution will have to pass a law on the organisation of a constitutional referendum that should be in line with the principles set out in the Code of Good Practice in the area of the referendum. The application of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative was adopted in 1994, was minimally amended in 1998 and in a series of its solutions is restrictive, overcome and incompatible with the Constitution. Basically, this law does not allow citizens to effectively exercise their right to participate in the exercise of power through referendums and national initiatives. Because of the great shortages of this law, the referendum and the people's initiatives have rarely been used. Some of the key provisions of the current law are not in agreement with the Constitution, and this is in the area of the referendum - a round of authorised motions to implement the referendum, most of the total number of voters as a condition for the success of the referendum, the jurisdiction of the court, etc. In the area of the People's Initiative, it is crucial to limit an inappropriately short period of seven days to collect signatures. Legal solutions do not know or edit all kinds of referendums known to the Constitution. They neither contain rules that are consistent with changes in the electoral legislation, nor provide adequate protection for voters' rights and signatories of the People's Initiative. It is, therefore, in the current referendum law. The adoption of the Constitution in 2006 and the Constitutional Law for its implementation established the obligation for all laws to comply with the Constitution by 31 December 2008. Only during this deadline, the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government in late 2009 and early 2010 prepares the draft law on referendum and national initiative. However, the draft law was not in line with the Constitution on the existence of censorship for the success of the referendum, so it was not proposed to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. Taking into account all the above, a new law on the referendum and the People's Initiative has been adopted and in the previous period, at the end of 2019 and in half of this year, two public debate procedures have been carried out, a number of opinions and proposals by the state authorities and the non-governmental sector have been drawn up and two rounds of consultation and obtaining the opinion of the Venice Commission have been carried out. At the end of this whole process, our opinion on the bill that is before you is that the existing legal framework for the exercise of the right to referenda and the People's Initiative is significantly and fundamentally advanced. During the previous period of preparation, the draft law was one of the most commented issues was the abandonment of provisions relating to censorship or quorum for the success of the referendum. Such a provision exists in the current law and provides for the condition that more than half of the voters in the vote voted for the referendum to succeed. This provision was applied during the last referendum to confirm the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on 28 and 29 October 2006. By declaring the new Constitution, this provision of the applicable law may be deemed to be incompatible with Article 203. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that a decision was taken to confirm the constitution in a referendum if voted for by most of the voters. Therefore, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has clearly regulated the issue of how to decide on the approval of the Constitution in a referendum, and it does not provide for a condition that the referendum's success requires most of the voters to come out. Accordingly, it would not be legally sustainable to require the regulation of this rule or of these conditions for the adoption of acts of a lower legal force than the Constitution, such as the laws and decisions of the regional or local authorities, which would be taken in the referendums. The importance of achieving the sovereignty of citizens through referendums and national initiatives is also reflected in the basic provisions of the bill, noting the role of the principle of rule of law relating to the application of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution of guaranteed human rights and freedoms, and in particular freedom of opinion and expression, freedom of the media, freedom of movement, freedom of assembly, freedom of association and the right to notification. The bill extends voters' rights with the right to plead in a referendum and to participate in the People's Initiative and internally displaced persons, according to the established residence and recognises the right of voters who declare themselves to vote abroad, i.e. according to the chosen place of residence, as well as to vote in the republican or presidential elections. With the citizens' right to speak freely in the referendum and to freely define their participation in the People's Initiative, the bill states that citizens are personally and secretly voting on ballots in the referendum, while citizens participate in the People's Initiative by signing the appropriate proposal for a national initiative. In order to ensure the legitimacy of the people's initiatives launched and to make the necessary number of signatures undeniable, the bill has established the obligation to sign voters who have been defined to support a particular national initiative to be certified by authorised verifyers and to pay a minimum fee of 40 dinars for the over-signature. In order to make it easier to collect signatures for the People's Initiative to the greatest extent possible, it is prescribed that the signature can also be given electronically, with electronic signatures not subject to the verification of signatures, thus not paying that fee. All issues of electronic folk initiative will be particularly regulated by the government act, or regulation, within six months of the adoption of this law. Now a detail. Publicly, there is criticism of the bill's proposal for paying 40 dinars for overing the signature, asking who can pay around 10,000 euros for the legislative people's initiative, it is necessary that 30,000 signatures are signed, so multiply by 40 dinars, you will get this amount, and it makes it impossible to implement it. First of all, it is forgotten that electronic signatures are not subject to certification, nor to the payment of 40 dinars. Secondly, the amount of 40 dinars represents a minimum fee for hiring and entering into the field of an authorised verifyer who records data on a citizen who supports the People's Initiative, but also confirms to give a signature and issue assurance, i.e. a certificate for a certified signature. Third, this criticism counts that some individuals should have 10,000 euros in order to realise a national initiative suggesting that someone might buy ten thousand euros in support for their proposal in the People's Initiative. With this distorted understanding of the people's initiative, indeed no one should be able to buy citizens' support for their proposal, but that citizens are confident and sincerely want to support the proposal of the People's Initiative and assess whether such a proposal is worth, conditionally speaking, 40 dinars in order to pay for over the signature. Honestly, if each of us is wondering, if I'm behind the idea and I want to sign my signature, today 40 dinars can't be something to stop you. So all the stories about the value of collecting signatures for the People's Initiative fall into the water, but we're going to talk today about various lies that are being served to the citizens to be led astray when it comes to the Law of Referendum. Therefore, the referendum is called for a direct statement by citizens on the issues set out in the Constitution, the law and the statute of the Autonomous Province or the unit of local self-government. The referendum can also be called on questions from the responsibilities of the National Assembly, the circuit or local assembly, when the assembly decides on its own initiative or on a request submitted by a number of voters. The draft law provides for all types of referendum. The referendum can be a republican, circuit and local, according to the level of government whose assembly is calling for a referendum. According to the territory on which the referendum is held, it may be in whole or in part of the territory. According to the procedure for calling, the referendum may be binding in the cases of the pre-established Constitution, the law or the statute of the autonomous province, the municipalities or the city or the university, at the request of the majority of Members, or the committee, or at the request of a certain number of citizens. According to the moment in which the referendum is called, it can be preceded, for the sake of a previous statement on an act or on a matter, or a subsequent one, where we plead and confirm the act. According to the type of act which is the subject of the citizens' statement, the referendum can be constitutional, legislative or administrative. Also, a referendum can also be an advisory character to obtain citizens' opinions on the decision to make and the decision taken at the advisory referendum is not binding. The deadlines for the Parliament's decision to call a referendum have been established by the draft law in respect of whether the citizens' referendum declares the confirmation of the act, when it is the Parliament's obligation to call a referendum at the same session at which the act was adopted, or in the case of a previous referendum, when it is the Parliament's obligation to call a referendum at the same session, or at the latest within 30 days of the date of the adoption of the proposal for a decision. The deadlines for holding the referendum were also set at the earliest 45 days and no later than 60 days after the referendum was called. A referendum on the amendment of the Constitution may be held at the earliest 45 days from the date of the opening of the referendum and no later than 60 days from the date of adoption of the Act amending the Constitution. It is also prescribed to include a decision on the calling of a referendum. One of the newspapers introduced by the bill is the Parliament's position – in the event that the Assembly calls a referendum on voters, it can at the same time establish its position on the issue it decides on in the referendum and introduce citizens to its position on the official web presentation of the Assembly and through the media to inform citizens. The draft law prescribes the bodies for the implementation of the referendum, namely the competent electoral commission and the voting committee. The committee responsible for implementing the Republic's referendum is the Republic Election Commission. For the implementation of the province's referendum is the Regional Election Commission, and for the implementation of the referendum in the local self-government unit of the City, i.e. the Municipal Election Commission. In the event of a referendum being conducted in the territory or part of the territory of the Republic or the AP, the electoral commission of the local self-government unit shall play a role as a subcommittee. There is a situation where no electoral commission has been educated in one of the units of local self-government in order to act as a subcommittee in this case, and for the purpose of implementing a republican, or regional referendum, the Republic Election Commission, or the Regional Election Commission, educates the subcommittee. The right to designate its representatives, members and alternate members in the bodies implementing the referendum shall also be the subject of a request on the basis of which a decision on the calling of a referendum has been taken. The voter's committee for conducting the referendum has the president, vice president and four members with its deputies, while the voting committee abroad and the criminal sanctions offices have the president and two members with deputies. The composition of the voting committee, with the exception of voting abroad and in criminal sanctions offices, shall be appointed on the proposal of parliamentary, or parliamentary groups under the obligation to take account of the proportionate representation of the representatives of the authorities and the opposition, i.e. parliamentary and parliamentary groups in the Assembly. A proportionate representation shall be provided in relation to the total number of seats of members of all voting committees in the territory for which the referendum is to be called. The bill sets deadlines for proposing members of the voting committees, as well as a possible replacement for them. The public, this is very important, as regards the right to observe the work of the referendum authorities is regulated in accordance with the rules for the selection of MPs, with the addition that this right can also be achieved by the organiser of the referendum campaign. In addition to the Parliament's previously mentioned stance, under which the Assembly can establish a referendum on the citizens' request, I would draw attention to another newspaper, and it concerns the measure to regulate the objective notification of the citizens of the referendum. This is very important, given the citizens' protest last night that someone is trying to hide something or that there is some intention that is not visible at first sight. The draft law therefore regulates the obligation of the competent electoral commission to adopt, within 20 days of the date of the referenda, an act providing objective information to citizens on the issue, or act to be decided in the referendum. The electoral commission is also obliged to publish the act in the media and deliver it to citizens at the address of the residence. The purpose of this election commission act is that the referendum notice should be faithfully and equally reflected in the views of the parties that advocate different responses to the referendum issue. Therefore, information that you send to potential voters at the place of residence should also include information for and against issues, i.e. topics in the referendum. Each voter will thus have a clear picture of the upcoming referendum. A significant part of the bill's proposal is provisions that govern the referendum campaign in a concrete and clear way. I expect the referendum campaign at some of the next referendums to be crucial for the results of the referendum. It's the freedom that was given this time, and we haven't had that opportunity before. The referendum campaign lasts from a referendum to a referendum day. It can be organised by legal persons and groups of citizens. It is also tax-listed that authorities, domestic and foreign bodies, legal and physical persons cannot be the organisers of the referendum campaign. As regards the source of funding for the referendum campaign, the bill found that own funds could be used, as well as that funds could be raised from other private sources, except for the sources of resources from those legal and natural persons who could not be the organisers of the referendum campaign. For the collection and use of funds, the rules of the Law on the financing of political activities shall apply, the organiser of the referendum drip shall be obliged to designate the authorised person for the availability of funds in a specifically open account for the referendum campaign and to provide information to the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption within three days of the opening of the account. The obligation of campaign organisers to submit a report to the Agency on campaign costs has also been established in order to control the report. It is significant to note that it is prohibited to provide advertising services in a referendum campaign to legal persons and groups of citizens who are not registered as campaign organizers, and as such published on the Agency's web presentation. The bill specifically regulates the procedure carried out by the Assembly when submitting the voter's request to call a referendum by achieving the People's Initiative. It is common for requests submitted to the Republic, the province and the local assembly to determine, within 30 days of the submission of the National Initiative, whether the list of signatories of the People's Initiative is made up in accordance with this law and whether a sufficient number of signatures has been collected. The checklist of the signatories shall be carried out by a competent electoral commission. A check of the list of signatories with the electoral list shall be carried out by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government responsible for the conduct of the single electoral list, for a request submitted to the Republic or the provincial Assembly, and by the authority of the administration, the municipality or the city for the list of signatories submitted to the local assembly. The competent committee of the National Assembly, i.e. the circuit or local assembly, shall also determine whether the request for a referendum has been submitted by the authorising officer and in the prescribed form, as well as whether the case falls within the authority of the Assembly and whether it concerns issues which may not be subject to the referendum. If deficiencies are identified in both of those procedures to the initial committee, that is to say, the applicant shall be set a time limit for the elimination of those deficiencies which cannot be less than 15 days. If no identified shortcomings are addressed within a certain period, the Assembly will decide to reject the requirements of the People's Initiative. In the event that the Assembly rejects the request for a referendum, the applicant may appeal to the Administrative Court within 15 days. The draft law lays down deadlines for the Assembly's decision on a proposal contained in the National Initiative launched, the National Assembly shall decide at the first national session in the regular session and no later than six months from the date of the launch of the National Initiative, and the Parliament of the AP, or units of local self-government, shall decide at the first next session, or no later than 90 days from the date of the launch of the National Initiative. If the Assembly rejects a request for a referendum at the voter's request, the applicant may file a complaint with the Administrative Court within 15 days of the receipt of the Assembly's decision. When the Assembly decides not to accept the proposal contained in the People's Initiative, it shall deliver the reasoned decision to the initial committee and publish on its website a presentation within seven days of the decision-making day. Before making a decision on the opening of a referendum, the Committee of the National Assembly responsible for constitutional matters, i.e. the competent working body of the province or local assembly, is required to obtain a favourable opinion of the committee responsible on the proposal for a referendum issue with the answers offered. The deadline for submission of an opinion shall be seven days, and the period of that period shall be deemed to be a positive opinion. On the basis of the vote in the referendum, the usual rules for the implementation of elections for MPs are applied, with the specificity of the contents of the ballot containing the question on which citizens should be declared. The words "yes" and "no" and "no" as well as the regulation of a special situation in which the elemental accident, epidemic or other reasons for voting in certain polling stations cannot be carried out without jeopardising the safety and health of voters. In such a situation, the competent electoral commission, on the basis of the opinion of the competent states, sets out specific rules by which voting committees are formed, handovers of voting material, and conducts voting in those polling stations. In order to ensure legality in the referendum procedure, such a proposal for a law lays down restrictions on the derogation from the rules laid down for the selection of MPs. When the vote is completed in the referendum, the voting committee shall determine the results of the vote in the vote itself. It consists of a record, supplied together with other materials to the election commission of the local self-government unit, i.e. a sub-committee within 12 hours of the closure of the polling post. When acting as a subcommittee, the local self-government electoral commission determines the results of voting from all polling stations from its territory within 48 hours of the closure of polling stations and delivers them to the competent commission within 24 hours. The total results of the referendum shall be determined within 48 hours of the Commission’s having received all the results of the vote, which shall be determined by the subcommittees, i.e. voting committees for the referendum in the local self-government unit. This is also an interesting moment. Following the citizens' statement at the referendum, the bill specifically regulates the conduct of the Assembly or the possibility of repeating the referendum. The Assembly may not adopt an act contrary to the act, i.e. a question confirmed in a referendum or alter its essence before the end of two years from the date of the referenda, subject to an advisory referendum on that act or issue. If citizens in the referendum have taken a decision against confirming the act, i.e. the issues covered by the plea, this cannot be decided again at the referendum within a year of the date of the referendum. The decision taken in the referendum shall be mandatory unless the advisory referendum is implemented. To the National Initiative, citizens give proposals relating to acts in the jurisdiction of the Republic, the province, or the local assembly. The National Initiative can be submitted in two forms: as a general initiative not proposing a certain act, but a position clearly showing the direction of a change in an act, i.e. resolving a particular issue proposed or as a concrete initiative proposing a legal act with an explanation. When it comes to the general initiative and citizens, they have previously stated in the referendum on a specific issue, or have made a statement in a referendum on amending or repealing the acts adopted by the Assembly, the Assembly is obliged to prepare the relevant act and to decide within 120 days of the date of the referendum. The National Initiative shall be established by an initial committee of at least three voters. The initiative committee shall formulate a proposal for a national initiative and submit it to the Assembly, which shall be responsible for the adoption of a specific act or to settle a specific issue. Following the submission of the proposal, the President of the Assembly shall carry out the verification procedure. The verification procedure implies whether the proposal for a People's Initiative relates to issues that cannot be called a referendum, whether the proposal has been submitted in one of the formats of the National Initiative previously mentioned, whether the proposal has been submitted by the Initial Committee in accordance with this law and whether the subject matter of the referendum is within the competence of the Assembly. If deficiencies are identified in the proposal submitted, the President of the Assembly shall set a 15-day time limit for the initial board to remove the deficiencies. If the initiative committee remains on the table, the President of the Assembly shall be required to include the proposal in the draft agenda of the first next session of the Assembly and inform the initial committee accordingly. The assembly may decide to verify or reject the proposal, and the initial committee may file an action before the administrative court within 30 days of the decision of the Assembly which rejects the proposal. When notified of the verification of the proposal, the initial committee may start by collecting signatures and by setting a 90-day deadline in which the initial committee is to end the collection of signatures and submit a list of signatories to the Assembly. In relation to the places where the signature is collected, the bill does not contain the obligation of the initial committee to report, as has been the case so far, to the Ministry of the Interior of the Location of Signatures, but is obliged not to interfere significantly with their normal use and does not violate the rules on public order. The collection of signatures can also be realised by collecting electronic signatures, as it is the place to collect electronic signatures of an internet address on the eGovernment portal for a specific folk initiative. The draft law lays down the data of citizens gathered for the achievement of the People's Initiative, as well as the protection of personal data. During the period of collection of signatures, the initiative committee may campaign for a national initiative and invite citizens to join the initiative in the application of the rules provided for in the referendum campaign. With regard to the protection of the rights governed by the draft law, which are not previously mentioned, the right to object to the relevant electoral commission and to decide upon objections in the referendum procedure has been governed. The citizen may object within 48 hours of the voter's closing if the voting committee has groundlessly prevented him from voting or has violated his right to free and secret vote at the polling post. The authorising officer and any MP, i.e. a committee member, depending on the territory for which the referendum is called, shall have the right to object to the competent committee within 48 hours of the moment of the decision being taken, or the action, or the failure of the committee responsible or the subcommittee, if it considers that irregularities in the conduct of the referendum have been made. This right also has the mandate to amend the Constitution if a referendum for the amendment of the Constitution is implemented. The deadline for the decision of the committee in charge of the complaint is 96 hours from the submission of the complaint. Against the committee's solution, brought by appeal, the objector can appeal to the Administrative Court within 96 hours of the adoption of the solution and to the Administrative Court, also, within 96 hours, resolves by appeal from the receipt of the complaint with the files. The bill also prescribes criminal penalties for campaign organisers and financial donors. We should also point out that the first next Republic referendum to be implemented under the provisions of this law will be carried out by the Republic Election Commission appointed in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing the selection of MPs and whose composition will be extended, that is, by six other members and alternate members appointed by the National Assembly on the proposal of the National Assembly president from the order of experts on election law and electoral process. Also, the first next Republic referendum will be conducted by voting committees in whose permanent composition, as set out in this law, one more member and a deputy member appointed by the Republic Election Commission on a proposal from the National Assembly President. Thank you for this 32 minutes of attention, because I've given you a lot of details. Based on everything that has been said on the draft law on referendums and the People's Initiative, our opinion, is that we have not had a better law in the region for a long time, but in the world. This is particularly important, as this law regulates two important mechanisms for achieving the sovereignty of citizens through direct democracy. We hope that the quality and importance of this law will be recognised by both MPs and in the voting day will support this bill. And so once again, in these 32 minutes, I have really used it to present a lot of details, frankly and some technical details, which may be of interest only to those who participate in the referendum process itself, but it is important when we are at this stage, where certain groups of activists want to confuse most people in Serbia, that this referendum has some other intention, that it may refer to Rio Tinto or Kosovo or that we want to solve some other issues, that is to say, the least possible untruth. But, perhaps, it should be answered by harsher words, because this way of confusing the citizens of Serbia, that such a good referendum law, which was praised by the Venice Commission and which has worked with us on several occasions to reach this regulated bill proposal, when European institutions and European experts for this kind of national initiatives and referendum have confirmed that this form of law is something that has an extremely positive opinion with us, at that point remains to explain to the citizens of Serbia how much we have put forth effort, how much more than ever, we have opened the door for sovereignty, how civil activity will be much easier than ever before, is it possible to get over to the legal initiative, how the censorship of the Venice Commission, about the abolition of the censorship, has declared as something that is extremely positive, because so far-time censors, so most of the number of elected voters have been something that has been disturbed to implement the referendum. That is why the abstinents often punished those people who wanted to come out and express their will and participate actively in the changes in both the systems and the legal frameworks for the different topics concerning our public. I would also like to hear as many objections as possible to this bill, to hear the regrets, conditionally speaking, from the field because that's what our job here is, to explain to the citizens that we've never had a better proposal for a referendum law than this one is before us. Does anyone want to abuse him? He wants, because we're in a period, he wants the opposition, he wants those who are the opposition to the ruling majority. Why? Positioning ahead of citizens is under way before the upcoming elections. You see that opposition parties, too, have difficulties in organising and joining the elections, and what about the groups of citizens? Everyone wants to take their positions and everyone wants to attack, first of all, President Alexander Vukic, who absolutely has authority and political ratings that are difficult to achieve, but how do they get to the front row, how can citizens hear about you if not otherwise by attacking Alexander Vukic? But when you get citizens' attention, it's a difficult part of the job, which is to convince them that your political agenda is, that your political idea is why they should round up your name on the ballot. It is a difficult part of the story and that is why I am particularly pleased with the introduction of the term "referendum campaign", because all those who say that we have an evil intention and that through these referendums we want to drag some of the topics to a small door, they are wrong, because here is the space that through the referendum campaign, that during the two months of daily communication with voters who will go to the referendum when they do, to convince them that what the ruling majority promotes is not good for them. I don't think you're gonna make it, because the idea you're all up for is just one cover. You want to make a problem in front of the Serbian presidency, and you know that the president is not there. You want to stop Serbia, you want to block the highways. Why? I don't understand a logic where when citizens don't want to stand behind my idea, I decide to harass them by stopping Serbia and blocking highways. I don't think that extra harassment of citizens can help someone accept your idea and vote for it. Do we need protests? They are welcome in a democratic society. Every kind of open expression, criticism and dissatisfaction, is a correction of power, and it is extremely important for me to hear what the counter arguments are, but then we enter the second stage when I answer my views in this bill and then the citizen has a clean situation. More than ever, proud of this bill and of all the people who have done it within the framework of the Working Group to prepare this bill, which I thank at the same time, because it is a months of intensive work behind us. Thank you again for your attention and I think that today we will have a constructive day, with constructive criticism, I hope that the citizens will follow us, and the media will explainly pass on reports from the Serbian Parliament. If we allow today's lie to continue living on the streets of Serbia, we have done nothing. We need to explain to people how much we have devoted our efforts and work that such a good proposal for a referendum, which will later edit referendums and people's initiatives, is better than ever. Thank you again for your attention, you've been extremely patient.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10828	Thank you, Minister Obradovic, for the context of the proposed law. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (Yes) The People's MP, Djordje Dabic, spoke in front of the Justice Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10829	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister of Associates, we finally have before us the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, and all in the face of changes, or constitutional changes that will take place in the referendum from 16 January of next year. You have just emphasized how many lies, how much abuse there is, how much this subject is spoken of in one way to absorb reality and to say that this is all about some other topics such as, say Kosovo, Rio Tinto, etc. Generally, we've been here in the National Assembly for over a year and a half and we've been saying that constitutional changes are being prepared and that this is why we have to organise a referendum. We have had public hearings, not to mention more, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic knows how many times we have had working groups and tours throughout Serbia, where we have explained to people what this referendum and constitutional changes are about. I would like to take a brief look at the current constitution and the situation we had, therefore, in the previous period. So in 2006, a referendum adopted the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We remember how it was done, freely said, in a non-transparent process, that in two days they made a referendum that needed to be released and voted. I would like to remind you that the opposition at the time was very country-wide towards the national interests and President Aleksandar Vukic, who was then an opposition, supported the referendum precisely because it was in the interest of the Serbian state at the time. Then we created a preamble to the Constitution, where we introduced Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia and therefore the then government and opposition agreed that this constitution was necessary. In 2006, I say, most of them came out, of course, that constitution was passed. However, the then incompetent yellow authority in 2008, as you stated, had a deadline to comply with all laws with the then Serbian Constitution. They're doing it, as we all assume, of course they didn't. In 2008, they were supposed to pass this law that we're bringing here today, they didn't bring it, and of course that job came to us. Since we are ahead of us, I say, of the constitutional changes that are necessary, and as for the change in the way the judges are elected, the judges will no longer be elected at the first term in parliament, given that it was a criticism by the EU somewhere, so that the executive authority interferes with the judiciary. We've created a framework here, we've talked about everything in a very transparent way inclusive. The meetings were organised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and now to be taken before the citizens. So, on January 16th, there will be a referendum on these constitutional changes and we, to say again, have explained in a transparent way why this is important and we are going to a referendum in front of Serbian citizens. However, on the other hand, you have abnormal spins in public, all the time being spoken and lied, lying, you said a milder expression of untruth. So this is where people literally lie. They say how this is done, the first lie was that we do it, it says - changes the constitution to get out of the preamble of Kosovo. We said it wasn't true and of course it doesn't come to mind. That preamble behind us is the day of holiness. We don't give up what's good from some of the past. So the preamble of the Constitution is of course sacred and it will not be touched. When they first saw that they failed, that no one believed them, then they went into second spin. It says - all this is done to get Rio Tinto into Serbia on a small door, and we will confirm to the citizens of Serbia - who brought Rio Tinto? Well, he wasn't brought by Aleksandar Vucic, brought by Boris Tadic in 2004, and the former tycoon government in 2004 brought Rio Tinto to Serbia and gave them every right to explore lithium ore. They did so in 2004, and today, without any shame, they are leading protests against Rio Tint, with which we have not signed any agreements, and they have signed no less than nine agreements with Rio Tint. If today they tell you that they are against Rio Tint, those who brought him in, and that's true, I don't know what to call it, one of the best lies and the truth, and President Aleksandar Vukic, the other day he talked about it, everything we've agreed, and possibly nothing is agreed with Rio Tint, and everything that might be in agreement we'll be in front of the citizens of Serbia to say -- please, and make sure that you support or don't support it, and there's no greater democracy. We will do nothing beyond what is in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the people need to know who is protesting and who thinks this is all about, I say, Rio Tinta, Kosovo, don't be deceived by those politicians who brought Rio Tinta to Serbia. Don't be deceived by those politicians who offered a chair to Kosovo in the UN to support Boris Tadic in the elections. Don't go behind those politicians who say Serbs are a genocide people, as Marinika Tepic says. Here, we see that she is their candidate for the opposition in the parliamentary elections. We see that Zdravko Posh is a candidate for president, a man of May 25th. In 2006, American Depesha Wikiliks, therefore, U.S. diplomats still said about the man in 2006 that they had a man in the heart of reform and defence of the Republic of Serbia's system. That's what Serbian citizens call a foreign spy, and it should be said so loud and clear -- you have foreign spies trying to come to power and bring Serbia back to the mud in which the former DS tycoons introduced it. Marinika Tepic as prime minister, Poš for president, is their offer. Take it easy, Serbian citizens, who call you to protest, are called those who say that Serbs are a genocide people, as Marinika Tepic and Zdravko Ponos, who is a foreign spy, so they marked him, not us, but American dispatches from WikiLeaks, say. I say once again, we need to think carefully, before Serbia are difficult times, here I am ending this, we have important elections, it is important to define ourselves, it is important that we vote for prosperity, to vote for what was adopted the other day on the 486 billion investment budget. It is an offer to Serbian citizens led by Aleksandar Vucic and SNS, and what you have on the other hand is lies and false and we will in every way expose it here in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10830	Thank you. Before we move on to the presidents, i.e. authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, one notice of today's work - pursuant to Article 27, and Articles 87 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's MP Jahja Fehratovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10831	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, allow me to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate 25 November, BiH Statehood Day, before I say anything about this proposal today as an MP of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and as a representative of the Bosniak people from this position. The Justice and Reconciliation Party has made an agreement with the SNS on the principles of which the first principle is what it respected and respects the continuity of the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, that for us BiH is a territorial and in any other sense an unequivocal phenomenon. Furthermore, when it comes to the referendum, we ourselves know that this concept comes from Latin, that it means what needs to be done, and that in historical terms it comes from that moment, from the moment Napoleon introduced it into democratic practice. So, the referendum as one of the key instruments for the development of democracy, democratic society and fluids is what represents culture and civilization. The referendum is something based on the culture of agreements, the culture of agreements between the people and those who represent power. This culture of agreements is, in fact, one of the most significant and important recognitions to the people that in all of the biggest, most serious things he has a decisive role, that is, that power is in his hands, and that is why it is very important that, with all these changes, the positive that you've told us here today, we, as MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, are fully in favour of these amendments and additions to this law. We want to say that everything that has been for change has been done and that everything that is trying to make certain factors, which you have described very well, say when it comes to the criticisms of this law is actually one attempt to deceive the public, an attempt to humiliate citizens because if someone says they can buy a folk initiative they say they can buy people, that they can buy citizens, and thus destroy the dignity of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. That's what it is, the intensity to abuse, to try with these other means to harm the citizens of this country first and to humiliate them for their own personal interests. They say they're not worth it, they're cheap goods, they're worthless voting machines, etc. In fact, by this bill, this parliamentary majority says quite differently, it is the citizens who have absolute power to decide in all possible aspects of the most important state and its arrangements and all the general interests. They are citizens above the representative and executive authorities. They are citizens who, at any time, can also change through a people's initiative everything they think is not good in relation to their interests, in relation to what is their will, their desire, their desires, and everything else they think is meant to be. In fact, this law allows the existence of the most significant and the highest instrument of a democratic state, a democratic society to, in a civilised way, in a cultural way, give us, on the principle of culture of agreement as citizens, the power to return to them again, and that those who will decide in every respect, are the most significant, most sensitive and responsible issues in terms of our country's further path. Of course, this applies not only to the institution of the referendum but also to the people's initiative as a good instrument through which even citizens can direct the bill to this or any future Parliament of the Republic of Serbia and ask that we, as MPs, vote it and that as such it is binding both on representative and executive power. Also, in this culture of agreement, in this arrangement of all these technical details that you have brilliantly spoken about and introduced us and all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to all the essential changes of this bill, it is well designed to have additional deadlines, i.e. enough days within which citizens can think of fighting for the achievement and their national initiatives, that there are instruments that will ensure justice on election days when it comes to a referendum statement, that there is an entire system that provides for a full-scale democratic decision-making process on a particular issue and a particular national initiative, which as such represents the most significant response of the people in a particular issue. We are aware, as you have said, that all these phenomena and all that comes these days with regard to criticism and this bill, are motivated and initiated by those who want to position themselves before the upcoming republican, parliamentary and presidential and cityal elections in Belgrade and that it is in fact the voice of the powerless, the cry of the desperates who have seen that both citizens and the entire Serbian society can no longer be held hostage by their bad decisions, their destructive actions and that everything that has been done in preparation for this law and the preparation for the upcoming elections has been aimed at revealing their intentions to our society, in our country, introduce anarchy and powerlessness, to bring us back 30 years when we were hostages to such poor policies. As MPs, as a party and as a parliamentary club that participated in all these talks, which were conditional upon this law, we are witnessing that the authorities of the executive and representative authorities have done everything to ensure that the upcoming election cycles are indeed the best organised so far, that they have come to meet all possible requirements that were realistic, established both by the opposition and by all others who are interested in these elections and that in this way any possibility and opportunity of those who wish to now, on one very primitive, in one very populist way, to cast a shadow on all that has been achieved in the previous months and in which we all participated together. That is why the proposal for this law is in the ear and in the hearing of what you have said is the assessment of the Venice Commission, that this is indeed a quality proposal, however, and that other observation from the score that stands, is so expressed, but it is expressed for the reason that after all those previous talks that preceded all that and they saw for themselves both the determination and the intention of all of us that the upcoming election cycles be impeccable, to reflect the will of citizens, reflect their wishes and reflect their desire for the Republic of Serbia to move forward as it has so far gone, to ensure that the Republic of Serbia is a guarantee of good life and guarantee of security, security in the Balkans. Given its role, in terms of the entire Balkan space and in terms of everything it represents as the most significant growing economy at this point for our entire living space together. For all these reasons and all that has been done in the previous period, we MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party stand firm with this bill and in the voting day we will confirm this in the way we will confirm and how we will call on all those who are our voters, our supporters, to decide when it comes to the referendum to support and they by their vote all that is important in these referendum statements, i.e. that we all go together to defend, to preserve all that has been achieved in the previous period and all that has been started in the process of building lasting reconciliation on the principles of justice, mutual respect, respect and view of the future in terms of providing economic preconditions, that all generations, all of our citizens, including Bosniaks, and Serbs, and even all of the representatives of minority nations, see Serbia as a place where they will live with dignity from their work, from their earnings and on which they will be able to provide safety for their families and their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10832	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Selma Kučević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10833	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on today's agenda, we have a referendum law and a people's initiative. The need to update the law certainly speaks enough of the fact that the 1994 law is currently in force, so maybe this should have been done earlier. This bill has triggered the avalanche of these negative connotations, especially when we are talking about a censorship whose abolition is foreseen by this bill. At the consultations we had with the Venice Commission, our parliamentary group initiated a transparency of public debate on this matter, as well as the abolition of taxis or at least some symbolic amount, i.e. a minimum amount. Given the importance and importance of constitutional changes, as well as the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, planned deadlines for implementing the referendum are not sufficient justification for the absence of a fundamentally important public debate, nor is the adoption of laws whose solutions leave the possibility of restricting and civil sovereignty. The draft Law on referendums and the People's Initiative falls short of the rule of law because it implies that such laws are not passed before the referendum is implemented directly, but that this proposal is adopted before the referendum is planned. This bill provides for urgent adoption and entry into force, which is contrary to the opinion of the Venice Commission because the Venice Commission considers that a period of one year after the adoption of these amendments should not be applied. The amendments should also not be adopted in order to maintain the proposed referendum. The bill provides for the possibility that, under the conditions of natural disasters, epidemics, as well as in other circumstances where voting cannot be conducted in accordance with the regulatory procedure, the Commission's decision shall lay down specific rules for the implementation of the referendum, as well as the establishment of these voting committees, as well as the handover of voting material, and then the implementation of the vote itself. It is limited that the rules must be in accordance with the Law on the selection of MPs, and that the opinion of the competent authority must be obtained previously, however, is not clearly defined in this section and is not specified which state authorities. Therefore, setting this provision is such that given the situation in which we are currently in place, which is the pandemic, this provision leaves a wide range of space for abuse, or manipulation. It also provides for the possibility of holding a referendum on the part of the territory of the state, then the AP, as election units. However, it is not clearly specified here what authorities can do and how they will determine which parts of the territory will be covered by a referendum, nor where the border between the electoral units is withdrawn. This also legalises the possibility of manipulation with the ultimate result, ending electoral units where certain political entities enjoy this particular political support. We have been in dialogue with European Parliament mediators, as representatives of Bosniaks, demanding Sandzak to be a special constituency from which 20 MPs will be elected. As much as these controversial standards on the referendum law are also very questionable when it comes to the people's initiative. In fact, citizens who so far didn't have to pay anything literally to exercise their right, constitutionally right, and to submit to the people's initiative, are now exposed to the costs of the certificate. Which in practice means that for 30,000 signatures, as much as it takes to launch a national initiative at the republican level, citizens would have to single out as much as 1.2 million dinars. That amount is big for the initial board, but it's not really big, considering that every signator of the initiative in his own pocket is funding it. However, this is not about any figures, this is exclusively about this principle, so that citizens had the right, constitutional right, which they have exercised and that, in fact, by introducing that fee, it actually effectively narrows down that level of human rights achieved. If we put all this aside, the signing over for the People's Initiative is simply excessive and represents harassment for both citizens and public notaries. The assembly will eventually decide on the people's initiative submitted. So, as far as it actually corresponds to the MPs or the committees, it will not be so much questionable about this credibility of the identity card data. What should certainly be welcomed in this bill is the extension of the deadline for collecting signatures. The previous law provided for seven, and now it's 90 days. I am particularly concerned by the fact that since 2018, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has not taken a single national initiative into consideration. This practice rightly raises the question, why would citizens single out that particular amount for the signature of the People's Initiative, if the practice so far has shown that the largest legislative body is ignoring this legal institute. This bill did not even approach the solution to this problem. Therefore, in the absence of such a solution, this institute will remain unused in practice and cannot positively affect citizens' right to participate in decision-making. If, therefore, we take into account the scope of the matter which is regulated, I believe it was necessary to leave much more room for discussion and debate, and that the laws of this type should not be passed by emergency procedure, of course, unless the Constitution provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10834	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10835	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say a few sentences on the Proposal for a Law on People's Initiative and a referendum and to say immediately at the beginning of my address that the SVM Group will support this bill. The current Law on the referendum and the People's Initiative of the Republic of Serbia was passed in 1994, meaning long ago. It was amended in 1998 and since 1998 it has been valid in this text. Since 1994, and in 1998, in this area, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was the first to exist in this territory, so the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, since 2006, the Republic of Serbia, which means that the current Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative survived three state forms on this territory, that, meanwhile, the Constitution was adopted 15 years ago, that this current law in many elements was not in line with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, and what is still important for the institutes of the National Initiative and the referendum were completely ineffective in the previous slightly more than a quarter of the century because legislative solutions were not adequate. So the current legal solutions are not adequate, and on the other hand they are not in line with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We all know and we have talked about this many times in public, and also in the National Assembly that the Republic of Serbia is waiting for the topic of constitutional review, not only waiting for it, but the Assembly has been doing so for months. It will now be almost a year since the government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted a proposal for constitutional changes to the assembly procedure. Many public debates have been organised, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislatives of the National Assembly has held many times, and we are in the finale of this very important work. Parts of the Constitution governing the area of justice will be amended and the referendum on constitutional changes should be held in mid-January, according to announcements. Since the Constitution is the only legal act that regulates its own way of change, we know that a referendum is necessary to amend the work of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the judiciary and other parts which, or members of the Constitution that are to be changed, means a statement is necessary, a direct statement of the citizens in the referendum. The referendum could not be held under the current Law of the Republic of Serbia in the People's Initiative of a referendum because the text does not comply with the Constitution. That is why we are now discussing this bill, but this job should have been done much earlier. I would remind you that since the adoption of the Law on the People's Initiative and the 1994 referendum, this is the 14th Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, since the Law on the People's Initiative and Referendum has been in force, this Government of the Republic of Serbia is 14, and since 2006, we have a new Constitution, and a deadline that has been defined, that is, defined by the Constitutional Law on the Implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the deadline for the harmonisation of all laws with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has expired on 31 December 2008. That is why I would like to point out that the organisation of a constitutional referendum in mid-January next year should not be and is not the only reason for the adoption of this law, but is to agree with the current text of the Republic of Serbia. While I'm at this part of my address, I can't say that there are other elements in our legal system that are not in accordance with the current Constitution, and this anti-constitutional state has been going on since the end of 2008. I just want to point out one law, you won't be surprised, it's the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which was also to be passed by the end of 2008. I hope, and it is not only hope, but we also want to contribute actively to the adoption of the National Assembly in the near future of this law, as it will today adopt the Law on People's Initiative and referendum. Why can we say that the current 1994 law does not comply with the Constitution? For several reasons, and the basic reason that can be seen at first sight is that the current Law on the People's Initiative and the referendum foresees quorum, i.e. to successfully hold any referendum in the Republic of Serbia, not only should it participate, but to vote for, more than 50% and 50%, respectively, registered voters plus one citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Since, according to the current constitution, this is not intended for constitutional review, nor for the constitutional referendum, nor for the citizens to enter into a referendum on the amendment of the Constitution, it is seen at first sight that this solution is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and therefore this new law should be passed. But it's not the only reason why we need to get a new law on the people's initiative and referendum today, but because constitutional institutes of referendums and folk initiatives in the past 25 and over the years have been completely ineffective. They were ineffective because now the applicable law is not precise enough, it has not regulated these institutions well enough, and there is also a lot of illogicality and legal gaps in the current law. That is why it is important that this law, which we are discussing today, will regulate different types of referendums, regulate a round of mandated proposals for the implementation of the referendum, allow for electronic signatures. I mentioned the question of the majority for the successful implementation of a referendum that will be regulated in another way, the court's jurisdiction, the organisation of funding, reporting and the implementation of the referendum campaign. These are all issues that are regulated in a different way by this bill. As already mentioned, the Venice Commission has made a positive statement on this bill. It did so on 9 November of the current year, following months of consultations by the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia with this advisory body of the Council of Europe. I think that's very important. It is also significant that this bill is fully in line with the solutions of comparative law, with international practice, with solutions that apply in most countries of Europe and the world. Although, I must say, and I want to talk a little bit more about this later, that the referendum and the people's initiatives are not human rights, in the sense that they are universal nature and that they are foreseen in parallel legislation in most countries, moreover, even the contrary. As for the referendum, along with the Republic of Serbia, many countries provide for the legal institute, but cannot be said for the institution of the national initiative. But they are in our constitutional and legal system of constitutional categories and should therefore be regulated in a way that makes them effective and effective. Article 2 of our Constitution says sovereignty comes from citizens and that citizens carry out it through the People's Initiative of the referendum and by means of the freely elected representatives. That is why our Constitution provides for forms and direct, or semi-direct democracies, besides the fact that the Republic of Serbia is a country in which the principles of representative democracy apply. As for the People's Initiative, it was already said earlier that no national initiative had been adopted and adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the past 27 years. It speaks enough of how ineffective this institute was, that it was not at all a living institute with which citizens could exercise sovereignty. As a result, it is very important to increase the deadline for the collection of signatures in relation to the People's Initiative from 7 to 90 days, to introduce electronic folk initiatives. It's completely consistent with the time we live in. The fact that no national initiative has been adopted, and even considered in the National Assembly over the past 27 years, there are several reasons for that. One reason is that this obligation did not exist. Now, according to these solutions of the bill, there will be a commitment of the National Assembly to declare the people's initiative, and we will not come into the situation that we came to in the previous years, that, for example, A few years ago, it seems to me in 2018, regardless of the huge number of signatures of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of the so-called "Tian law", the initiative was not on the agenda of the National Assembly due to the lack of the current law. This led to the situation that practically the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the second authorised legislator of the law, besides citizens, in addition to 30,000 citizens and some other authorised promoters, has actually taken over the people's initiative, has proposed the law as if it were its own, but has done so on the basis of a national initiative. After the adoption of this law, the National Assembly will discuss such people's initiatives and therefore citizens will be able to exercise sovereignty, sovereignty and so on. As far as the referendum is concerned, the referendum can also be said to have been an effective tool in the past decades. I would like to remind you that only six referendums have been held in the Republic of Serbia in 32 years, almost 33 years. So, we had only six referendums, one more in 1989, so in the early 1990s several referendums and all these referendums were unsuccessful, I'm talking about the Republic referendums, precisely because the quorum for success was foreseen. The last referendum took place in 2006. It was a constitutional referendum. It was then adopted now in force when the census, of course, was respected. That is why we can talk about constitutional continuity, since the previous Constitution has been amended in the way he predicted it, but we all remember that it has been voted for two days, which is not exactly the usual and certainly not a good solution, and from the very beginning it has cast a shadow over the text of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Since 2006, we have not had a single referendum in the Republic of Serbia. What is still being said in public is an attempt to challenge a solution that, unless a citizens' solution supports a referendum, the same referendum can be organised within a year. This is interpreted in a way that should leave a longer deadline for the possible organisation of a new referendum. This is not justified because this deadline of one year is provided for in our legal system and for other situations, for example, for changing the Constitution, because if a majority of the amendments to the Constitution are not achieved, then the Constitution on issues contained in the tabled proposal cannot be accessed within the next year. This is Article 203(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If the deadline of one year is foreseen for the Constitution, which is the highest legal act in the Republic of Serbia, then I don't know why a longer term should be left for the organisation of any other referendum. What I still want to say about the people's initiative is that according to one paper by Professor Vladan Kutlesic, he analyzed the 69 constitutions of the world, everything in three countries is envisaged by the National Initiative Institute. These are, of course, Switzerland, the Republic of Serbia and Colombia. That's why at the beginning of my address, I said that the people's initiative is not universal human rights. It is not envisaged in many countries of the world or even Europe, but it is good that it is foreseen in Serbia by the Constitution, but the institute should be effective. At the very end, I'd like to draw attention to one question. Since this is about local self-government, I'm asking the Minister to pay attention to what I'm about to say. I said the quorum will no longer be valid and 50% of citizens will not be asked to vote for a particular solution to make the referendum valid. That's logical, because that's how the Constitution is designed for constitutional change. If something is not necessary for the Constitution, for constitutional change, then it would be illogical and would be contrary to the principle of the hierarchy of legal acts on some other issues and legal acts. But there is another situation, and I suggest we consider amending the Law on the financing of local self-government in the next step to introducing self-dependence. Self - contribution is a significant tool. For example, in Vojvodina, in Pakir a few weeks ago in the municipality of Backo Topola, there was a statement by citizens about the introduction of self-indulgence, unsuccessfully, unsuccessfully due to the search for the quorum. But it is one means thanks to which many things have been built in many local self-governments and settlements in the Republic of Serbia. If we change the Law on the Referendum and if it doesn't take 50% to declare citizens for a successful referendum on some, let's say, conditionally speaking, state issues, then I think it's illogical to ask 50% for local issues, to introduce self-indulgence into certain settlements. I hope it'll be the next step. Once again to sum up, resume. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will support the bill's proposal, because it believes it is in line with international standards, and thanks to this bill, the National Initiative and the referendum will again be an effective means and way of exercising sovereignty by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10836	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Parliamentary Group, Unity Serbia, National MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10837	We are today discussing the proposal for a referendum and a national initiative, a referendum as the highest form of national will, as the highest form of direct democracy, as well as the most direct way of participation of citizens in the exercise of state authority and decision-making, both political and other. Given that we are from the Single Serbia for a Serbia who respects the will of the people, we will, of course, support this proposal for a referendum law and a folk initiative and in the day of voting the Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of this and this proposal. By way of a referendum, citizens are naturally declared directly whether they are for or against certain laws, acts, political or other decisions already taken or planned. The new referendum law will enable citizens to effectively exercise their Constitution-guaranteed right to participate in the exercise of power through the People's Initiative and the referendum. The new law removes the shortcomings of a series of solutions from the existing law, which has led citizens of the Institute of the Referendus recently and the National Initiative Institute in practice to use very rarely. Since 1990, the Institute of Referendum has only been used six times. Twice, so in 1990 and 2006 in a referendum, Serbian citizens pleaded on constitutional changes. In 1998, Serbian citizens declared whether they wanted the participation of a foreign factor in Kosovo and Metohija and we had three failed referendums in 1992 on state symbols and constitutional amendments. However, since 2006, when we had a referendum on the adoption of the current and existing Constitution, we have not used such a mechanism and this kind of civil declaration to this day. The fact is that the applicable law was passed in 1994 and that this bill, which is before us, contains a number of alignments with the 2006 Constitution, in particular as regards the abolition of the mandatory censorship for the required number of voters, as conditions for the success of the referendum, as well as for the purpose of regulating all kinds of referendums provided for in the Constitution. The solutions provided for by the draft law are based on the recommendations of the Council of Europe from the revised Code of Good Practice in the area of the October 2020 referendum. The existing 1994 referendum law had to be in line with the 2006 Constitution, as counterpart Pastor said, no later than 31 December 2008, according to constitutional laws, however, because the issue obviously did not matter enough for the previous government. It is for us. We are in the process of changing the Constitution as planned and such constitutional changes are bound by the obligation and implementation of the referendum, i.e. to declare citizens on this matter, and simply those whose mouth was full of the European Union, European policy, the European path did not even occur to pass the Law on a referendum to which they were obliged. Now these are the biggest critics of this bill and this legal solution today. I simply have to ask these critics of the authorities and this Law on Referendum and Civil Initiative, whose, as I said, full of the mouth of democracy, who believe that the only real representatives of the civil and civil sector and civil society, are likely to think that we are all others of the credentials and illiterate plebs, I am asking those who have been holding back for decades that they have the deed to European integration and pro-European politics – why have they not passed the Law on the referendum at the time of their government, even though they had an obligation to do so? No, because they are not fundamentally interested in democracy, or the will of the people, or the European path, or the referendum, because all they ordinarily advocated was just a cloak in fact to trade influence and personal wealth while they were in power. They are now saying that this Law on Referendum and People's Initiative is not democratic, will not reflect the people's will. Aren't those the same ones who told Serbian citizens only a year ago that there are no minimum conditions for democratic elections in Serbia? Aren't they the same ones who have always convinced Serbian citizens that the boycott of the election is the only and best solution? Aren't they the same ones who boycotted the elections just a year ago, aren't they the ones who convince the citizens again today that they should go to elections under the same conditions and vote for them? Aren't they the same who were blackmailing the state by participating representatives of the European Parliament in talks on electoral conditions. Isn't that the same ones who tried to blackmail those same Europarliamentaries and international mediators in those negotiations? Aren't those the same ones who offended them in those negotiations by saying that these Europarliamentaries reached an agreement with the authorities, not with the opposition, and thus angered them, and even at one point the MEPs were so angry with their pets, they left the talks briefly. Isn't it the same ones who asked and if they're not in parliament to participate in bodies like RIK, and today when they're supposed to make proposals for RIK, they don't have people to do it. Yes, dear colleagues, they are the same, Gilasi, Jeremici, Lutovci and others whom neither you nor the people of Serbia believe anymore even when they say Thursday is November 25th, because everything they have done and done so far has been a lie, has been fraud, machination, imagination. Well, didn't Gillas himself, while he was mayor of 2009, told former Ambassador Cameron Manter that his programme for Belgrade was more marketing than reality. You can find that in WikiLeaks papers, of course. It's all about marketing, it's all a lie, trying to impose a fake picture of Serbia. It was not such a problem that they were trying to place this fake picture of Serbia in the world, in violation of Serbia's reputation. They saw it, Bilchik, Fajon, Flakenstein, Kukan, they saw who they were, they needed a little time, but they saw it. They'll see the others, but there's still time lost that can't be compensated and damage we can't fix. They're slaughtering each other these days, over cookies they haven't earned yet, slaughtering over mandates they haven't received yet, about who's going to be a candidate for what function. They take each other's eyes out, act like horns in a bag. Why? Because their personal interest is in front of the state. Those who have a state interest in the front of their personal interests are easily negotiated and co-operated. Here, for example, the SPS and JS coalition has been going on for 13 years, and right now, SPS Presidents Ivica Dačić and Dragan Markovic Palma, president of the JS, will sign an agreement on continuing co-operation for 13 years and on joint participation in the elections. It's the same situation and it's working well and the ruling coalition, here's a full nine years, no problem, because we're interested in politics, and we're not interested in personal interests. We always put politics and the state of Serbia ahead of the interests of the private, or party, anyway, the JS has neither ministers nor state secretaries, but it has never prevented Dragan Markovic Palm, nor JS, nor all of us from doing good things for Serbia. You are the Minister, in detail and comprehensively explained the draft law on referendums and the People's Initiative, and I am not going to do much about it, but some, let me say, essential things. The draft law on the referendum and the People's Initiative brings an end to the voter's turnout threshold, which, according to the existing rules, is 50% registered, as well as easier steps to take in the national initiative, i.e. an extension of the deadline for collecting signatures from seven to 90 days. These are the basic reasons why the government decided to amend the law that was passed in 1994 and corrected in 1998. The basic flaw of the current law is in the section relating to folk initiatives, it was that the deadline for submitting the signature is seven days for 30,000 signatures, so it is now extended to 90 days so that whoever wants to launch the initiative can collect them. What is important is also to say, the Venice Commission welcomed this proposal. Namely, the president of the National Assembly, Ivica Dacic, but also Justice Minister Maja Popovic, as well as our colleague, Zaric Kovacevic, defended this bill before the Venice Commission a few weeks ago and successfully presented it and defended it. We simply have the support of this law. The new law will most likely be applied first at the time of the citizens' statement on changes in parts of the highest legal act, i.e. the Constitution relating to the judiciary, and the referendum will be held on 16 January. We will have on the agenda of the National Assembly next week a proposal on the text of constitutional amendments in the area of the judiciary. As for the threshold of success in the referendum, as I said, the Venice Commission said there should be no threshold, because if there are more rights, they get abstinences than those who go to the referendum. We will pass this law, I have no doubt because there is absolute will in this House. We cannot implement constitutional changes that we need in the process of joining and opening new clusters without changing the Law on Referendum. The referendum law will take effect immediately and because we do not have time to lose and to turn around and look back at anyone who would like to plant our feet. We've been waiting for the position of the Venice Commission, we've got a positive attitude, and we're going for constitutional changes. Of course, what are we going to change in the Constitution? After the referendum law, we will discuss the proposal for constitutional amendments. The changes concern the choice of public prosecutors and their deputies, as well as the process of electing judges and presidents. Also, the composition of the Supreme Judiciary Council will change, and the state's major prosecutors will change their name. The proposed amendments abolish the three-year probationary work of judges and prosecutors and provide for changes in the responsibilities of the National Assembly and decision-making in the Assembly. The election of judges today, currently, is defined by Article 99, as the situation falls within the constitutional jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We have launched the procedure of amending the Constitution and this procedure must end, because there is no possibility that after parliamentary elections some new assembly of the National Assembly will continue this procedure, it would already have to go into the whole procedure of constitutional changes over and over again. We from the JS are certainly in favour of finding the best and most optimal solution that would regulate this area and, in line with these changes, we will take part in the work on this issue, as a parliamentary party. I must say, the independence of the judicial authority exists under the present constitution. In Article 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees judges the continuity and immutability of the judicial function only after the first election when they are elected for three years. The intensity of these proposed constitutional changes is heading towards increasing the independence of the judicial branch of power, by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I must draw attention to the fact that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a reflection of the people's will, and that is how the choice of judges reflects that same will. We can make here an ideal system of choice of judges and judicial authorities and ensure the highest possible degree of independence of the holder of judicial functions, and that it is designed for reasons not all the way to the system, but to people, to each individual holder of the judicial function, or to each individual judge, to its professional, moral and other qualities. A good judge, the one who took the oath to judge by law and by law, if he is committed to his work, professional and faithful oaths he has made, which he respects generally accepted values in society, such a judge was, is and will be independent. Those who are fortunately few, those who look at their own personal or political interest in what we can see in individuals lately, were neither independent judges, because they were not bound by the right and sworn oath, but by the interest that stretches. We in the single Serbia believe that the principle of judicial independence is the central postulate of a democratic order based on the rule of law. We believe that judicial independence is not worthy of itself, and it is not and cannot be regarded as the privilege of a branch of state government or a holder of a judicial function, but an institutional means of protecting human rights and freedoms. In order to fully achieve this objective, an independent and impartial judiciary based on the foundations of respect and protection of human rights and freedoms is necessary to contribute to this by their own expertise, training and commitment. Because Rico Fer himself said “the escalators are worth as much as those invited to apply them. ” Of course, we need to improve and prepare every area of our society, including the judiciary. It needs to be made even more efficient, better and better, but not because someone on the side is asking us, but above all, for our own sake, because those on the side, or world centres of political power, certainly want Serbia to impose the right of force, and Serbia can only respond to this right by force of justice and justice. Never underestimate the force of justice and justice. She's tough. This can be seen all these years back in the case of our southern province, on many other examples, both in our country and in the world. To conclude, the Unique Serbia is for Serbia in which the people's will is ruled, not by individuals who want to impose their will on the people with help from the side. The referendum and the people's initiative are tools for carrying out national will, and JS advocates Serbia's prosperity and justice. In this sense, the Single Serbia will support the draft law on the referendum and the People's Initiative in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10838	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, National MP Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10839	I thank you, the chairman, the vice president of the National Assembly, Mrs. Jevdzic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister, with associates, the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative on which we are discussing today is the oldest non-compliant law with the Constitution and international regulations, 15 years since the adoption of the Constitution in 2006, is not in line with the highest legal act, although the deadline for the harmonisation of all laws was in 2008 and despite the fact that the Venice Commission repeatedly pointed to the need to amend the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. Today, 27 years after the adoption and 15 years after the adoption of the Constitution, we are discussing the draft law on the referendum and the People's Initiative. In addition to harmonising the law with the Constitution, it is also in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe from the revised code of good practice in the area of the referendum, in October 2020. It also incorporates some elements and EU directives on electronic civil initiative. I note this because there are no serious and very unfounded criticisms in public. I haven't seen a single concrete proposal exactly how some of the elements that are being criticised should look. I'm not talking here, of course, about constructive critics, those who took part in the public debate, but about critics who instead of explaining why we haven't changed the law for 15 years and brought it into line with the Constitution, and instead of working on education on affirming citizens' activities through mechanisms of direct, direct democracy, broader conspiracy theory, not truth and half information. It is high time we put the political differences aside, at least when it comes to the introduction of mechanisms, which involve citizens in the creation of laws and regulations, introduce principles and individual responsibilities for the creation of laws. What does that mean exactly, and what I mean by that, I'm going to bring you closer through the example of Switzerland. I take this example without the intention of making an inappropriate comparison of our country with Switzerland, but to make it known that by passing this law we have a chance to affirm direct democracy and allow citizens to directly decide what they consider important for the quality of their lives and the conditions in which they live and work. Switzerland is a country ahead of the referendum in Europe and where citizens plead, even the appearance of streets and fountains. Swiss citizens successfully apply the possibility of direct influence on a change of law, including the Constitution. Citizens say several times a year about various issues, which has positive effects in terms of civic understanding of their role in society, or understanding that they have the opportunity to exercise their right and say what they think. Direct democracy, namely the right to a referendum, has been created in the Swiss system in which politicians respect and understand very much that the decisions they make can be denied in the referendum, which alone brings a high level of political responsibility, and thus stability. The Swiss will, for example, issue a referendum on Sunday on the introduction of any pass slips. The National Initiative and the referendum enables not only public participation in matters of law and constitution, but first of all determine the public's attitude towards power. The Swiss understand power, first of all as something to participate in. This Law is exactly the opportunity for us to give our citizens the opportunity to make a direct statement about issues that they consider significant. The draft law on the referendum and the People's Initiative contains a good part of the democratic mechanisms applied in Switzerland. So I decided to state this particular case, of course, in line with our legal system. I analyzed the bill very carefully and very carefully. The general impression of the law in general is that the proposed amendments establish the highest democratic standards applicable in the Member States of the European Union. The application of these standards leads to significant participation of citizens in decision-making and legislation. The participation of citizens in the public and decision-making processes is a common value in the European and global political culture that is best built and improved precisely through direct participation of citizens in the decision-making process. We in the Social Democratic Party of Serbia are looking right through it at the value of this law. Analyzing the proposal, I tried to look at things as critically as possible because I think it is useful to understand as much as possible all the criticisms that are heard in public about this proposal. I have to say that I have not found logic or understood what is publicized irresponsiblely, often manipulatively and unobstructedly at the level of conspiracy theories about the reasons why we allegedly pass this Law. What I see is that this proposal and the referendum work, and even more so in the section on people's initiatives, has all the elements that benefit society as a whole in the long term. I also see that this law gives us the chance to involve citizens as much as possible in the decision-making process and to make citizens aware that using the mechanisms that the law provides can be far more active and directly involved in the creation of the law, by improving society by its own means. I really don't see anything wrong with improving the rights of citizens so that people's initiatives can and can influence the adoption of laws or their amendment. I believe that the law on the referendum and the People's Initiative is the starting point that citizens are fundamentally interested in how their community works, what is necessary and what they want to change and improve in the environments they live in. The basic papers in this bill are as follows. The removal of the voter turnout threshold, which was required by the existing rules by most of the registered voters, is now the majority of the voters out. This is one of the basic newspapers in order to bring the Constitution into line. Namely, the constitution stipulates that the conditions for a change in the constitution adopted by the Assembly are that the majority of those who go to the elections vote. In the current referendum law, it says otherwise. It says that the decision is made by most of the total number of voters. The largest number of criticisms addressed during the public debate and in some media were precisely about the issue of turnout. Serbia's constitution deals with Article 203, paragraph 8, precise conditions on the success of the referendum, and it is said: "When the Treaty amending the Constitution is put to the fore, citizens shall enter into a referendum no later than 60 days from the day of the adoption of the Act amending the Constitution. The change in the constitution was adopted if the majority of voters voted for a change in the referendum." I wanted to read this precisely from the Constitution of Serbia because it confirms that the law on referendums is being amended in order to abolish the mandatory presence of most registered voters, because in the event of a conflict between the provisions of the law and the provisions of the Constitution, the provision of the Constitution applies, of course, so that in that sense the amendments to the law would not be necessary for the implementation of a constitutional referendum on the amendment of the Constitution. The solution would also exist with the applicable law. The provisions of the Constitution would, of course, apply. A provision referring to the fact that to succeed the referendum is enough for the majority of voters to vote for it, and not for the majority of those enrolled, some at first sight seem not strong enough in the sense that they will not always reflect the citizens' position on a question. I think exactly the opposite. It is necessary to raise citizens' awareness of their active participation in public affairs at all levels of government, and thus to decide on issues relevant to their lives. That is what I was talking about at the beginning, citing in detail and extensive and an example of Switzerland. Let's move on. One for us in the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, the most important amendment to this law, is that the deadline for the signing is being extended. Therefore, a national initiative requires 30,000 signatures, and the deadline extends from seven to 90 days. Mostly because of this short period of time, the people’s initiative has not been so often, or almost by no means, applied or tolerated. It is also a major problem that there is no unique record of submitted initiatives, and so far it has been difficult to gather information on the people's submitted and unrealised initiatives. The majority of the information on the submitted initiatives was collected by the NGO CRTA and are found in the 2018 brochure and the organisation, which addresses problems in the exercise of the right to submit a national initiative. Otherwise, it has been discussed by counterpart Balint since the inauguration of the multi-party, at the republican level, with three referendums. So, in 1990, we changed the Constitution, in 2006, and in 1998 we declared that we did not want foreign representatives to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija. A statement on state symbols and constitutional amendments in 1992 was unsuccessful because less than half of the voters came out. When it comes to the People's Initiative, it was practically just one and that initiative of the Tijana Juric Foundation, which was implemented in amendments to the Criminal Law. At the local level, the referendums were largely held on the issue of introducing local self-sufficients. The extension of the 90-day deadline to collect signatures opens up the possibility of national initiatives being significantly higher in the future period. Whether or not they will depend on the idea itself, the proposal, the initiative and the collected signatures for which the certificate will be paid a minimum, almost symbolic fee of 50 dinars. Participants in the public debate have pointed out the need not to charge this fee in the implementation of national initiatives, as there is no provision in the current Law on Referendum and People's Initiatives. However, since the law stipulates that electronic signatures do not require overa, it can be concluded by simple logic that the costs of collection and verification can in the future and how they can be reduced to a minimum and thus will not discourage citizens from using a folk initiative that can propose to adopt, amend or suspend the validity of the Constitution, law, other regulations and general acts at the republic, province and local level. Also, at least 150,000 voters' signatures are submitted for a proposal to change the constitution. From this point on, it is clear that the law opens up the possibility of a new dynamic and activeism and involving citizens in the exercise of power through a national initiative and referendum, which was almost impossible for the current law, since it has long since been obsolete and restrictive, shown great shortcomings. Direct democracy is older than the representative model and can only further advance the representation model, and thus our work of the MPs in the future. It is noteworthy that the bill recognises and introduces, according to the legal action of the decision, a binding and advisory referendum. That's what you were talking about in the opening statement. Different types of referendums are foreseen by the Republic, the province and the local ones, and according to the time of adoption of the act under the referendum - previous or subsequent and by species - constitutional, legislative or administrative. Furthermore, it is extremely important that this proposal sets out in detail and provides for a referendum campaign, which is not regulated at all by the current law, even mentioned, while the proposed amendments are detailedly regulated and which can be organised and how campaign costs are financed, the special account, reporting, equal access to parties that advocate different responses to the referendum issue, as well as evenly and correctly informing citizens of all important issues on which they declare in the referendum. So, for the end, but no less important is that the criticisms of the Venice Commission were so positive that neither this recommendation on the application of the law, just a year after the application, can overshadow even good criticisms, positive criticisms and what the law itself can bring to us in the future if all together, I repeat it again, putting political differences aside, we see as one new possibility to strengthen the role of citizens in the exercise of power. Is he any good? Can it get any better? It is certain that, however, this law is certainly a completely new start after 15 years, and because of everything I have already stated in my presentation, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support this proposal in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10840	I thank the deputy president of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. For our children, the National MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10841	Thank you, Your Honor. Mrs. Obradovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the very name of the bill we are discussing today discusses how important the issue is today on the agenda - the Law on the referendum and the People's Initiative. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "The sovereignty comes from citizens who hold a referendum, a national initiative and through their freely elected representatives." The current referendum law was passed in 1994. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in 2006 and it is clear that there was no political will to bring this important law into line with the Constitution and bring it to an end in 2008, as prescribed by the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which I say was adopted in 2006. Now, not only is there a political will, but it is simply accepted that this job must be completed, that it is not healthy for our legislative system, that there is a law that is not in accordance with the Constitution and therefore the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and has formed the Working Group that has worked on this proposal. The most important provision that I would point out, whose alignment is under way, is to prescribe censorship for the referendum's success. Article 203(8) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "When the Act on Change of the Constitution is put to the fore, citizens shall enter into a referendum no later than 60 days from the date of adoption of the Act amending the Constitution. The change in the constitution was adopted if the majority of voters voted for a change in the referendum." In the current referendum law, there is a provision that more than half of the voters enrolled are required to succeed in the referendum. This provision does not comply with the abovementioned Article of the Constitution, therefore there is a real need for the new Law on Referendum to be brought into line with the current Constitution. In addition to harmonising with the Constitution, it was important to recognise and apply the highest standards for the implementation of referendums and national initiatives established in European countries, but also in other democratic countries and the most significant standards are the recommendations of the Council of Europe. In this regard, I can assess that it was of great importance that the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government co-operation with the Venice Commission, whose experts have helped to make this proposal, just as they have helped to draw up a draft act on amending the Constitution. It is not that we have just copied all their recommendations, that we have adopted these recommendations and put them in any act or law, it is that according to their guidelines, we will correct our legislation in order to meet the standards that apply in European countries. We can only do this if we adapt the rules in force in the EU to our legal and political system, in general to the society in which we live and our system to those rules. We are aware of the fact that one of the priorities of the work of the Serbian government is to achieve full membership in the EU and that there are many challenges ahead that we will have to respond to and hopefully do so successfully. In this regard, co-operation with the Venice Commission was crucial, both for the drafting of the Treaty amending the Constitution and for co-operation with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which was working on drawing up this draft law on the referendum that we are discussing today. The constitution defines a number of kinds of referendums and it is good that we can see in this proposal that all these species are regulated. So it's a republican, circuit and local referendum. Furthermore, there is a referendum for the whole territory or for part of the territory, mandatory and optional, previous and subsequent, constitutional, legislative and administrative and advisory. It is logical that a different type of referendum is called for for different questions. In this way, the questions defined by the Constitution and for which it is necessary to declare all citizens will be discussed, but if any issue concerns, say, the local community, or some other referendum, which is important to address the issue that is also important for that part of our country's territory. In this way, it is possible to continue to declare citizens, to participate citizens in decision-making, ultimately, themselves. On the other hand, it also means a great help to the state and local self-government, because then we will know, then the institutions of the state and local self-government will know how citizens think and in which direction should go in the future. I believe that it is crucial for the application of this law and for the participation of the wider circle of people in the referendum, which will be possible in such a way that this law will provide for the ability to vote and internally displaced persons to go to the polling post in Serbia who choose or stay abroad. In this way, we can expect law enforcement in full capacity when it comes to allowing citizens to participate in decision-making, which is also one of the priorities for the adoption of this law. What I would like to point out as particularly important is the public, to whom this proposal is given great attention. An obligation is imposed on the competent electoral commission, which is in this case the RIK, to prepare an act to be given to citizens, so-called. "objective information" on the matter of the referendum precisely for the reason that citizens may be able to obtain the necessary information, so that they can look at all the arguments and decide how they will plead, how they will answer the referendum question, whether their answer will be for or against the question that is being asked, whether it relates to the territory of our country or is related to the local community. The objective information will be available, i.e. in the form of a memo, delivered to all voters at their residence addresses. Furthermore, protecting the right during the referendum is another very important issue that this law regulates. A citizen whom the voting committee has unfoundedly prevented to vote or injured at the polling post the right to vote freely and in secret, but also an authorised legislator, every MP, MP or committee member for the decision made, the action carried out or the failure of the committee responsible, the voting committee or the subcommittee, shall have the right to object to the committee responsible within 48 hours. These provisions on these issues further regulate deadlines. Therefore, the competent commission shall decide on the objection within 96 hours. Against the committee's solution, brought by appeal, the objector may appeal to the administrative court. The deadline is also 96 hours, but what may be more important for Serbian citizens than the deadlines at the moment is that two-stage decision-making has been secured, which will certainly protect citizens' rights during the referendum. I would also like to take a brief look at the provisions relating to the People's Initiative. The National Initiative will be able to lead to a referendum being called upon by citizens. So, at least three voters form an initial committee with a proposal for a folk initiative. Prior to the beginning of the signing, the initial committee shall submit a proposal for a national initiative to the President of the relevant Assembly in order to implement the verification procedure. The President of the Assembly determines whether the proposal for a People's Initiative concerns issues that cannot be called a referendum, whether the proposal has been submitted in the prescribed form provided for by the law, of course, depending on what kind of national initiative is proposed, whether the proposal has been submitted by an initial committee formed in accordance with this referendum law and whether the subject matter of the referendum is, of course, within the competence of the Assembly to which the initiative is addressed. If the proposal for a People's Initiative is in accordance with the law and with all conditions required, the President of the Assembly will inform the Initiative Committee when it starts to run 90 days to collect signatures for the list of signatories. What is otherwise suggested, what we can see in this proposal in relation to the current law is a deadline for collecting signatures that is extended from seven to 90 days and in this way I want to say that it has been left almost 13 times as long as what is in force today for the collection of signatures, which, of course, will make it much easier for citizens to organise their obligations much easier at this stage of the procedure. The legitimacy of the people's initiative is achieved precisely through the overarching of these signatures, but the important news is, as we could hear from Minister Obradovic, the possibility of collecting electronic signatures from citizens who are not subject to the approval of the signature. The bill also abolished the obligation to apply to the interior ministry to collect signatures. After handing over the list of signatories to the Assembly, a check of the submitted lists and, of course, a comparison with the voter list shall be carried out. If a sufficient number of signatures are collected, the national initiative is considered to be launched. Where a national initiative is launched with the aim of calling a referendum, the committee responsible, i.e. the working body of the Assembly, shall confirm whether the other conditions provided for in this law are met and shall forward to the Assembly a request for a referendum. The working bodies' meetings may also be attended by the chairman of the initiative committee, which is of great importance for the involvement of citizens, and during this process, of course, a proposal can be rejected. After checking the list of signatures, the list of signatories and when deciding on a request for the opening committee's referendum, of course, has the right to appeal to the Administrative Court if it considers that the Assembly has not made the right decision. The National Initiative as a form of direct democracy is an important procedure for our country. It is therefore present in our system and is very important if we want to follow the democratic level of European countries and in this area. What is important is that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government have understood the task of making the proposal that is today before us properly. What does it mean in a proper way? It means that, above all, it aligns the provisions with the Constitution as the highest legal act, that the provisions are made in both normative and content terms in a way that will be compatible with our legal system and other laws which are important for the matter of referendums, but also that it complies with the rules applicable in the EU and that it correctly implements the recommendations received by the Venice Commission either in the course of the draft law process, either in the end, by obtaining a positive opinion on the draft law. Because of Serbia's position in the process of obtaining full membership in the EU, much must be done to take care of all the details that I have just stated because on the one hand we have committed ourselves to implementing the rules or postulate the EU, but on the other hand we must do so in such a way that it does not disturb our legislative or political system or the standards that are in force with us today. In that sense, I would like to say that the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government absolutely fulfilled the task according to the Venice Commission, but it also fulfilled the deadlines which may have been a little imposed on the implementation of constitutional changes. I'm glad we finally showed that we're a team that's on one mission. We've worked on different acts, but those acts are hard to connect. Of course, I mean here except for the Ministry of State and local self-government and the Ministry of Justice and the National Assembly. What I'd like to react because I think it's important is to place lies and insinuations that are meant to do something under the grain, as if no one can go to the government site or to the National Assembly website and check out what acts are in the procedure, and of course they can and these lies are used to invite people not to go to the referendum. So I'm not talking about maybe calling people to give a negative answer for example when it comes to constitutional changes in the referendum. This is about inviting people not to go to the referendum at all. I think it's a much more dangerous situation because it causes dissatisfaction with the citizens why they're not asked. Furthermore, they think that passing such a law is wrong by listening exclusively to misinformation. On the other hand, the law will not be able to be applied in full capacity if citizens are not interested in giving their opinion in a referendum on important issues. In any case, it damages the state, and ultimately damages all citizens of Serbia. A bad atmosphere is being created, citizens are turning away from achieving their rights and all for collecting cheap political points, so cheap that even the status of our southern KIM province is being used for these purposes, of course when we talk about calling a referendum because of constitutional changes that, I stress, are happening in the area of justice. The truths of course spread through a part of the tycoon media and individuals who are trying to gain supporters in any way. No matter how dirty the campaign is, we won't let the repeated lie become true again. The people will decide and decide and nothing will happen until the people decide. We from the SNS have always been ready to ask the people, listen to the people, ask the citizens, and what their electoral will is and the citizens of Serbia have been giving us the legitimacy to lead Serbia forward since 2012. It's as if they're making up a pattern – fiction is also being placed around Rio Tint and the environment, about the Expropriation Act, so of course it's being used today when we should adopt the Law on Referendum. Whatever is current and good for citizens is immediately tycoon media and some quasi politicians begin to deal with it on a daily basis and accuse the authorities without any arguments. Just look, I'll single out one who's not too interesting to me because he's terribly vulgar and rude, Marko Vidojković, with the title, if some camera could catch this, "What's that smell? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” His show is broadcast on Gilas's Nova.rs platform and he deceives the people by saying that the Constitution can change in any way and that even change the preamble and that KIM will be expelled from the composition of the Republic of Serbia and all under the heading "What exactly does that smell like? “ and I would say that it smells exclusively of his untruth here. The Serbian Progressive Party, unlike such people, does not deceive the people. We have not built on this any SNS policy, nor the politics of the Serbian state. Aleksandar Vukic always gave all the facts to the citizens, always explained every decision that was made solely for the sake of making the citizens better. We have nothing to fear. What are we afraid of? Big and hard work? The seriousness and accountability policies we've been carrying out since 2012? Politics in which Serbian citizens are first and many times have we shown and proved it? We are not afraid and I repeat it here – neither the tycoon, nor their media, nor their lies, nor the dirty campaign, and we are aware that because of the presidential elections ahead, this dirty campaign will be even stronger. There's nothing that can cancel our results. There is nothing that can bring down the country's construction and development policy, the rise of Serbia at all levels and in every area. You will see what a serious political party means when we present a programme at the party assembly that awaits us, and then you will see, with all due respect, how united and divided in different columns and columns, how they have no policy on which to build a political story that will be good for the citizens of Serbia but build their politics exclusively on fiction and gossip. Whenever we do something, and it's criticised without arguments, without a proposal on which we might have made some progress, I know that what's being criticised is that we did it right. Among other things, in the last few days, a hack is being conducted and against, I will use a little more time from the parliamentary group, if you will allow me, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee, both on social networks and on tycoon media, we are probably now in focus because we are preparing constitutional changes. The main objection, more than nebulous and obviously malignant, is that the meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives last for a short time and refers to how quickly I read or speak at these sessions. I am also appalled by the fact that some opposition politicians who were MPs have joined in doing so, in my view, show how much they were not interested in doing their job here, getting acquainted with the work of the National Assembly and representing their political parties, but before they represent all citizens of Serbia here. Let them be sure that I will answer every lie and insinuation, first of all because I represent the citizens of Serbia, but also because I also take care of the integrity of the Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the legislation and my colleagues who are doing their job very correctly. So, it doesn't matter how fast we talk or read, it's important that all the proposals, as well as the referendum law, as you can see, are discussed in the tide, because on our Committee, the proposals are only formally assessed as proposals that are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. But, well, the ignorant and the petty political souls don't want to admit it, and I believe they don't, because, as soon as you work, you're not good, as soon as you work for Serbia, that's what those in different opposition columns say, and if you're still in SNS, then you're on a pillar of shame, even though you're not guilty of anything. When you try to defend yourself against such people, they tell you that you mean nothing to the people, even though you've proven the opposite many times, and that maybe from Twitter whose profile is that cow's picture, which hides behind some name and last name that's not his name, won't vote for you. All right. Here, we'll take it. We'll be a punching bag, but we'll pass good laws in the National Assembly. We will lead the Republic of Serbia forward. Such will remain at the political bottom, colliding in their hatred and ignorance, and Serbia, led by President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS policy, will continue to develop and provide citizens with a good life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10842	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children". The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10843	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Mrs Obradovic, the respected representatives of the ministry, is correct, is completely right, counterpart Zaric Kovacevic, much of the demagogy, political demagogy and political pamphlets have heard of the past days and the past months when it comes to the proposal for a referendum law and a people's initiative and when it comes to amendments that need to be amended, all due to cheap political points. But, as always, there are things you just can't hide, you can't make it up. There's no situation here that one lie if it's spoken a hundred times becomes true. It won't be true. Because everything we do today will be valorized in January of the month, the reason why we do it today and then it will be perfectly clear. Let's get first of all, I don't want to deal with others, which is the reason for the adoption of the referendum law and the People's Initiative. It's our constitutional obligation. The first law was passed in 1994. One change was in 1998. The constitution was adopted in 2006 and, accordingly, the Law on Referendum and the People's Initiative was to be agreed by the end of 2008. What has not been agreed is the irresponsible and inconclusive relationship of those who should have done and done so. What exactly is going on here as a topic? I come back from a debate and it's kind of funny to me, so sometimes I wonder if those who give that opinion and those attitudes believe it? So, the Rio Tinto theme. Wait, the research will take two years and after two years no one will talk about Rio Tint again, right? On the other hand, why don't they say what they thought as government ministers about Rio Tint from 2008 to 2012 -- as a development opportunity, as a development project. I spoke with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who was then a minister and told me. He told me what personal attitudes they had. So for them, Rio Tinto was a developmental opportunity. It's something else now. Preambula. No mention of preambles and preamble changes has been mentioned. So, to make it perfectly clear to the citizens of Serbia, who knows which way we repeat, Serbia will never accept KIM's unilaterally declared independence. I guess that makes sense to everyone. In particular, it should be clear to them after the 2020 talks in the United States, when the president of Serbia said - point 10 remains foreign. Whoever wants and whoever thinks that putting pressure on Serbia can do something about Serbia accepting a self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, just wasting time. That's absolutely not the point. What's the specific theme? This is what I'm saying now for the benefit of the citizens, although that's what my colleagues were talking about. What's a particular subject, and why are we doing all this? Very often until the last report of the European Commission, which we will discuss here in the plural, otherwise I think it is a good practice introduced by the President of the National Assembly, that after a session on European integration and a proposal for conclusions that have been made, the European Commission's report here is being discussed in plenary. So Serbia shows clear determination and determination on the path of European integration. Our main strategic foreign policy goal is full membership in the EU. I'm sorry, but until the latest report is constantly honouring Serbia in the European Commission's reports that there is no political will in Serbia to deal with the fight against crime and the rule of law. Now, on the one hand, Serbia is showing that in one serious way it deals with organised, non-selective and continuous fight against crime and that it is a zero degree of tolerance, when we talk about crime and corruption, that there is one synchronised action when it comes to the MUP and when it comes to our legislative activity in terms of the adoption of laws that help fight crime, the continuation of the fight against crime, such as the Law on the Origin of Property. On the other hand, when it comes to the rule of law, I guess it's perfectly logical when we talk about the rule of law, so the goal that we want to achieve the amendments that are proposed and I hear, I'm getting a positive opinion, but I'm not going to talk today about amendments, but on Sunday, after the session on constitutional issues, when the final decision is made, therefore, to amendments that specifically refer to Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. So the goal is to strengthen and strengthen the Serbian judiciary. The goal is to make courts and prosecutors more effective and independent. Wait, we as a parliament give up what one of our powers was, and that's legislative, right, that's how we choose judges here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Where will you increase your independence when it comes to justice? So the key goal of all that we are doing today is to strengthen and strengthen the Serbian judiciary. We use the current political moment and compare it to the real situation in Serbia. Were those critics trying to do something like that today? I would be ashamed to be in their place and say, "We are not." Yes, from 2009 to 2011. You know why they stopped in 2011? Because it was supposed to change the preamble. It's basically the same thing for you, to do one parallel and a dyspression, with border crossings. All papers, all documents concerning border crossings were signed by 2001, and since the elections were in May 2012 and the assessment was that this would have a negative impact on the campaign of those who had majority authority in Serbia then stopped. Now, that is why it stopped with this story about the alignment of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative with the 2006 Constitution, because there was a preamble that had to change. We don't do that. So he wanted to do someone else, only they'd never have the courage to say it openly. As far as I know, the first task force was built, I think, in 2017 and 2018, right? I'm talking about this ruling coalition. At that time, positive opinions were received on amendments amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Why isn't it realized? Because professional associations were not in agreement with these amendments. As far as I know, in 2019, the task force continued to function. Two meetings were, as far as I followed, August and October I think it's months. That's when the amendments line up. Therefore, full consent of the Venice Commission is achieved. Here I would like to highlight, above all, the role and the minister of justice and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, counterpart Zaric Kovacevic, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Justice. My colleague, the fact that someone doesn't know how many boards it takes and why it takes 15 minutes, and sometimes 2.5 or three hours, don't pay attention to it, every comment in this context should be a compliment to you because it's an indicator of their elemental ignorance. So they didn't deal with parliament and committees when they were in this room. So now we have consent and professional associations and it is very important that suggestions and proposals of the Venice Commission are implemented. There were more conversations here in parliament. We were also representatives of the parliamentary groups, representatives of the extraparliamentary parties participated. It is good, Minister, that you have implemented those proposals and suggestions sent by the Venice Commission and that a positive opinion from the Venice Commission has been given. What exactly do I mean when I say that? I see we've been criticised, I can see it from the debate, because I've been in an argument with one of the so-called representatives. The opposition. I see we're being criticised for not having a mandatory censorship. Excuse me, correct me if I'm wrong, mandatory censorship is not a Venice standard. He exists, I think, in five or six states, and for that, the full consent of the Venice Commission was obtained. The second thing, also mentioned by counterpart Zaric Kovacevic, is a tax on over the signature. The realistically perceiving one is very high in Serbia, 400 dinars. Fifty dinars, when we're talking election lists and a signature certificate. It's reduced as it was to 40 dinars, but you can't do it without a signature certificate. You can't go without a notary certificate, because then what's your confirmation of the legal certainty of the National Initiative if you don't have certified signatures at the notaries. The next thing I think is very important is an independent body that will provide information on the conduct of the referendum. I know there was doubt, whether it would be the Government of the Republic of Serbia or whether it would be RIK. I think it's the right solution to be RIK, because RIK has the resources to do it, and on the other hand in RIK's work will be included in those extraparliamentary parties, so here you go, it's all so transparent. When I talk about RIK, what was not clear to the representatives of the Venice Commission, and I participated in the meeting, where 23 members of the RIK are now from. Very clear, completely clear. This is the result of an inter-party dialogue, and that is one concession that this ruling coalition has made, I don't think any ruling coalition would make such a concession, that the extra-parliamentary parties that do not have their representatives here in the assembly have representatives in the RIK and in the six plus six consolidation. As for the permanent election committees, of course, it will not be possible for you to have representatives of a political option on one election board. This will be done by the Bureau of Statistics, as so far, proportionately similar to the powers of the parliamentary groups, but we have made a concession here after the inter-party dialogue by the representatives of the extraparliamentary opposition having one plus one, so practically two members in constant composition. Now, I've summed up, eight and a half thousand polling stations times two, that's just for the start of 17,000 observers. Objections have been extended, i.e. the possibility of complaints and complaints, the time has doubled. We think it's a good thing you accepted this suggestion from 24 to 48, or 48 to 96 hours. The different types of referendum are defined more clearly, the principles for conducting a referendum when a referendum can be held, which is that it cannot be subject to a referendum in particular. So I think these are some basic and essential things that are very important and we think it's very good that you implemented them in this legislative proposal. Now, let me explain a little to those who say - you are adopting the emergency procedure of the referendum law, you are changing the amendment to the Constitution, and on the other hand you are adopting the Expropriation Act, you want to sell out the state, SNS and SPS, it is literally said, they want to sell out the state. It is basic ignorance, elemental ignorance, because if they knew something, they would understand that there are certain deadlines and that we have to respect those deadlines, and above all we are responsible and serious people, both this Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we said we'd work on the rule of law and the independence and efficiency of courts and prosecutors, then we'd work on it, and we'd finish that job, but we have to finish it in this session. Right? Since next year we have an extraordinary parliamentary election, most likely, that we have presidential elections, that we have city elections, well, ladies and gentlemen, there are certain deadlines, there are certain deadlines when elections have to be called. This assembly must adopt these changes, because unless it adopts them within the planned deadlines, then we will not be able to do what our goal was when it comes to the rule of law. That is why it is fully justified on January 16th, remains quite enough time for any complaints and complaints, and for extraordinary parliamentary elections to be discussed during February. That's the only reason why an emergency procedure. To have all the choices at the same time, because there are more reasons why we need all the choices to have at the same time. The first and basic reason is financial nature. We are still facing the biggest health challenge facing the whole world, and we believe that every dinar needs to be saved, to direct it to exactly what we talked about on yesterday here when we talked about the 2022 budget, and that's the standard of living citizens and capital investment. In order for Serbia to continue to develop, we have preserved macroeconomic stability, we have preserved hard-earned fiscal achievements. Now we need to turn around, regardless of the pandemic, life shouldn't stop, we need to turn to growth and development. In particular, when it comes to the referendum issue, the paper is that, in the future, before the decision to call the committee of the National Assembly's referendums on constitutional issues, or the competent working body of the circuit assembly or the assembly of the local self-government unit, it will be duty to obtain a positive opinion from the committee on the proposal for a referendum issue, which we also consider to be a very good solution. Since I've run out of time of 20 minutes, and the Honorable Chairman says that somehow I always plan on having those 20 minutes, here, I'll respect and now 20 minutes. So, at the very end, I will repeat once again, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, of course, will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10844	I would like to thank the chairman of the SPS Parliamentary Group. Since there are no more registered presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The first on the list is MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10845	I thank you, Your Honor, the President. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues, citizens of Serbia, here is another important thing that has not been on the agenda so far. Otherwise, we all know when the Constitution was passed, when we had the obligation to adapt all these necessary things after the adoption of the Constitution, but these previous governments, the previous meetings of the Assembly did not accept. We all know that was necessary. We will discuss it during the day. Dear Minister, I think that you as a competent ministry are all the things that are needed to prepare the proposal for this referendum law, the People's Initiative, that you have done all of this in the best way, where for the first time we have the possibility of both the earlier constitution and the constitution which was and which is currently, normally, is a constitution that was really legitimate, legal, but, on the other hand, the law on the referendum has not been passed. The positive thing is that now that this law is passed, otherwise, I, as an MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, will support the proposal for a referendum law and a people's initiative, because in the coming period, this democratic instrument, the People's Initiative, will be more adapted to all our conditions, that tomorrow we as people, if we have certain initiatives and in the locale, in the district, in the region, we can move these things, to be done in a democratic way, to be the direct will of those citizens who have a certain need to do something. I think it's a positive thing, because so far we've had certain initiatives, desires, but it couldn't be done just because it was necessary to go out in that referendum or some initiative in local self-government, to get at least 50% plus one voter out to make the referendum work. It was very difficult, because a large number of our people at that point or those moments didn't want to come out because they simply didn't have any initiative or maybe the need to get to every man, which means now that we're adopting this referendum law, the law on the people's initiative, as people are more present in every household, with every man, to get to know him, to know what's going on. Because the essence of all is the adoption of this law and the need to pass such a law is that each man, a certain group of people, would be given the opportunity to do something about the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that it would be good for every citizen in our republic. I've always been in favour of solving those things that are very necessary and in such a way that as a society, as a democratic society, as people who want democracy to be put in the first place in every respect, normally they have rights and obligations, because I've listened several times to some people who led the state in the previous period, until 2012, even there was some initiative and there was talk of passing the law that compulsory people had to go out and who didn't come out to vote to write his punishment. No, we don't want to do that. In this way, we want to give the possibility that anyone who wants certain things to be done through signatures, through initiatives, that in the Assembly or the committee in local congregations, or citizens in these municipalities, it can be done in the best way, without any coercion, without some punishment, but in a voluntary way, through education, through calls, through appeals, through conversations with a person face to face. We will succeed in changing certain things, which means that this law and this initiative that we are talking about now is necessary and I think that this will give results in the next period, that certain things agree with the Constitution, that certain things, which the Venice Commission has previously adopted, have given positive guidance, that this will be done, because we all want our Serbia and we to go towards the EU, that we have laws that will be adapted and everything that is necessary for the benefit of all of our citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Those things that are said, that in this way, when we are changing the law, or we are passing a law that has not been passed since the constitution, that we want to deceive the people, no, in this way we want to enable democratic instruments to be able to be easier to use in any place, whether it is local self-government, whether the Republic, that people through certain referendums, through certain initiatives can change some things and be directly involved in making it the most positive. Your Honor, Minister, I have confidence in your work, in the work of our government. Once again, I think it's necessary and necessary. Once again, I, as People's MP and President of the United Peasants' Party, will support the draft law on the referendum. Now, for the end of the day, I'd just like to say a few things about my colleague, Amelia, to congratulate her on her election as MP. She came here to the Assembly in a way, I think that's the worst thing, when academic Zukorlic died, a man who left a deep trail here for everyone here in the Assembly, who had his rights, his own goal, and that's justice and reconciliation, respect for all of us who are citizens of Serbia, so whether we are Orthodox religions, whether we are Islamic religions, it doesn't matter, we are all people and he who has set that course, I expect that fellow Amela will continue with her people, because our common goal is life in our Serbia, to make it better for everyone, whether he lives in Svrelig or Tutin or in Subotica. Once again, thank you very much, and I expect that we will support the bill, because the parliamentary club will surely support this.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10846	Thank you. The time foreseen for your parliamentary group has been spent. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10847	My position as an opposition MP and an independent MP does not allow me to spend time, since I have little, on the good side of this law. There are a lot of good sides, but unfortunately I won't be able to do it. The good thing is, first of all, the possibility of a referendum and a people's initiative returning to our political legal system is kind of open. What makes me notice this law, first of all, is that everything we do, we often do under pressure from Brussels, from the EU. The Venice Commission itself thinks it's long since lost its moral credibility to perform as someone who protects democracy. Very or unmistakable or mild or unpronounced when the referendum will of the people in northern Macedonia was violated, when Montenegro is allowed to enter NATO without a referendum, when various other freedoms and rights have been violated in the election process across Western Europe, i.e. The EU, when the largest election theft in mankind's history was made, which is the presidential election in America, when many violations were committed that led to the political West and their civilization no longer having the moral right to teach us either democracy or legal order. That's why I don't think they're the authority we're supposed to call on. On the other hand, I think that the censorship that ceases to exist in this referendum law is something that one large part of the political public that makes people who are not party-organised kicks out of the decision-making process. Those who are abstinent are not political idiots, as ancient Greece says, those who are not interested in living in the community. In our case, the mass of abstinents are proof that our political class, and this is not only the problem of these authorities and SNS, but for many years, lost the trust of the people and that many of them have a very clear political stance, but they do not want to support any of the political options, any of the parties in the elections. It is the responsibility of all of us, of course, the greatest responsibility of one who still has the greatest authority and the greatest influence in the electoral body. On the other hand, when you suddenly throw out the census this way, we bring everything into an absurd situation that in some next referendum, fewer people will decide than, say, those who have submitted an initiative for the referendum. So, theoretically, it can happen, which reduces the level of legitimacy of all those who organized this referendum. Then we come into a situation that you will be able to arrange for the minority at a party congress, especially one of the huge parties like SNS, to look like a referendum, which again puts most people who disagree with you, and are not ready to vote for other political options, cannot express their position. In Serbian society, in the Serbian people, after all these years of wrong policies, abstinences are politically defined and it is particularly important to give them a chance to send their message when referendums are organised at the national, republican level and when it comes to all of these citizens, and those who have come out and those who have not come out. Instead of throwing out the censorship, it would be good to do something, which is not my idea, but the idea of a colleague from your ruling majority, I hope that they have submitted an amendment so that I can vote for it, which is that a kind of degree-of-census should be introduced, let's say when deciding to change the constitution remains 50% plus one cent, when deciding on some systemic organic laws, let's say, 40% plus one cent, when deciding on changes to some other laws, and maybe the province's statutes, 30% plus one, when it comes down to a local level, say, 15% plus one, in any case, that some level of legitimacy should be placed in those referendums. If it is said to be a constitutional problem – it is not, because it would not be the opposite of the Constitution, it would be just some sort of development of what the Constitution left as a legal void. And what I want to send as a message from the SNS is that it's amazing that a party that has 700,000 members, in a nation that doesn't have seven million, means, on average, there are more of you than communists in the People's Republic of China, and you haven't even freed Serbia from NATO troops, you haven't even expanded it, as they freed China and expanded it, and in that way, with such a large electoral body, with such great potential, with such great mobilization power, it's just amazing that when it comes to organising capillaries and winning elections, you're willing to ask your people for ten capillary votes, and if you have 700,000 members, in every referendum, just your own neighbors, a few neighbors, it would be enough to pass 50% plus one. So that's the problem. Given that I received this information from the SNS people and I know that some have had the courage not to vote for government proposals, I'm surprised that Mr. Bratislava Jugovic, was afraid, had become a coward, so this time he will vote for the law. Of course, those who know how the Rules of Procedure works know what I did. I don't normally do this, but so be it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10848	Please don't speak directly, but of course you've caused a circle of replicas. I've got a few people in the system. First, I will give the right to the replica of two minutes to an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, as it is directly mentioned by the SNS, Jeleni Zaric Kovacevic, and then Bratislav Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10849	Thank you, Chairman. Don't expect a circle of replicas from me. Those who know the Rules of Procedure well, and I am one of them, will not cause a replica in their reporting. The basic motto of the SNS is that the people are wondering, and the people will ask themselves at the next referendum and in each other's referendum, in accordance with the law that we are going to vote today. The Serbian advanced party under pressure Brussels is doing nothing. The previous government has done much under pressure from various foreign embassies. What I've come to most of all for is to introduce the citizens to one fact, which is that the censorship doesn't cease to exist. This bill is in line with the Constitution, which was adopted in 2006, by which the censorship exists and represents most of the voters who went out, not most of the voters enrolled. Therefore, the harmonisation of this draft law with the 2006 Constitution does not mean the abolition of the censorship. As many of us as there are in the SNS, thank God, there are many of us, and there will be more of us, and Serbia has not been freed from either the Chinese or the NATO troops, we freed Serbia from the yellow tycoon power that gave these people nothing, because the citizens were wondering in 2012 if they would have money for salaries and pensions, because the citizens were wondering if they would be able to provide anything to the children, because they were wondering if Dragan Gilas in Belgrade had remained in debt to the families of 400,000 or 400 million, or however much money they owed to the citizens of Serbia. It freed the SNS from Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10850	Thank you. The right to replica has Bratislav Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10851	Mr. Glissic, here I am calling you by name. It's not possible that I got scared. Without false modesty, but courage is a word that describes me, that's what anyone who knows me well will tell you. I'd be against this law if he were bad, but this law is good, it's really good, because we can't even the abstinent and the one who actively participates in the decision-making. Here, I'm going to give a concrete example that is pressuring the public right now. "Rio Tinto", if it were a referendum issue, I would circle - no. I'm against the arrival of Rio Tinta. But my "no" can't be the same as the one who tweets and drinks espresso with cream and gets bored, tweets against the authorities and doesn't even know why it's against "Rio Tinta" etc. So when you have the right to vote, you should also have the obligation to decide on your own country. The only alternative to this law that I would like to vote for is, let's say, to take an example of Cyprus where if you don't go to a referendum or the polls are fined, or as you once did in Greece, a passport will be taken from you. I look forward to Serbia in which 100% of the citizens with the right to vote will come out and express their views on all issues. It's the highlight of democracy. Since we will not pass such a law, then we cannot equate abstinents with citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who do not know only about voting rights but also know about the obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10852	Thank you. I don't have anyone else in the system. Does that mean we can move on or does anyone else want a word? If not, we'll move on. The word has a minister, Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10853	Thank you, Chairman, I thought there were more MPs who applied, obviously gave up since they were clear answers. I would like to refer to these criticisms of the law that Mr Glisic made, you said that you did not want to talk about the good things of this law, that you do not have time to speak, because you are limited and that it tells me that you wanted long and that there is room to talk about the good things of this law for a long time. Thank you for that. It is a constructive approach in the work of parliament from my point of view, because it is good when something in this country is done, to say, this is done in a valid way and this is good for the state of Serbia, that is, for its citizens. Often in the political struggle and in the heat of political struggle, we somehow put aside what this general interest is, and we want to personally show that we are smarter and more capable than the others, and that is why Parliament serves to make that general interest always a priority somewhere. I'm glad you're the opposition MP now playing that card. On the other hand, I'm surprised that you criticized this censorship and that you've made one, to say, replacement thesis, criticizing and abolishing the censorship we're really bound to. We don't have much room to think about whether or not to end the censorship. We are bound by the 2006 Constitution, this is an obligation that should have been fulfilled long ago, we are now fulfilling it, not by our fault, but by some other circumstances we are correcting the existence of censors, we are abolishing it and the referendum is considered successful if most of the voters who came out have declared themselves a subject of the referendum. On the other hand, when I said that you had made a replacement thesis, actually, we would have allowed the punishment of active voters by the abstinents to continue, that the abstinences punish those who want to participate actively in the changes in society, who want a good initiative, to turn a good idea into an act into a legal solution. Since 2008 I have been involved in politics, since 2012 I have been in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. My goal was always to show all the good initiatives and the struggles of facing the water here in parliament where politicians and political parties can show their power and the distance of their, the power of their, the breadth of their political thoughts by turning good ideas into proposals for legal solutions. It is the essence, not the streets, not the protests, not the violence, but then you started counting the members of the SNS, you started to doubt the trust that citizens and members of the SNS still have in our policy, and that's where you got interested when you started counting what it would be if our members called two, three, five neighbours, so we could succeed in the referendum, so that's the situation that we point out when it's over the signature. We do not want and did not write this law for SNS, this law is written for citizens of Serbia, for citizens of Serbia who want their activists to translate their will into a legal solution. To collect signatures, where the idea is so good, where I'm going to pay 40 dinars to verify my signature because I want my will to be verified and to stand behind that idea, to put it into the initiative, and the initiative to translate and plead on the referendum, if that initiative has come to an end and after that into a legal solution, into some act. It is a path that changes societies, which citizens who want to participate in positive changes in their society, must follow. And I'm counting on ten thousand euros, because that's the main criticism, it doesn't ask 40 dinars for an overture of signatures, because who's going to raise ten thousand euros. Well, why are you gathering on a crowd? I don't know what moment we got to the crowd, someone to find ten grand and buy an initiative for themselves. It's a time far behind us. We're talking about the accumulated will and the power of the citizens to make some kind of change. We're not talking about money here, this is just one technical piece to verify that job that the signer is doing. On the other hand, you have a way to collect signatures electronically, on the e-Government portal, and there is no cost and there are strictly protected data. There are absolutely no objections that over 40 dinars is expensive, because we're not talking about the aggregate, but we're talking about that none of us who are watching this transmission right now have a problem giving 40 dinars for a good idea that they want to stand behind. I don't believe there are such people, but we have another problem, when the idea isn't good enough, when people don't believe that idea. So, those who want to buy that story, they have a problem with 10,000 euros. We at SNS don't have a trust problem, but I think you've changed a little bit, it'll show you our meeting on Saturday, the SNS Assembly where you'll see what it'll look like together, what kind of party, program documents we'll go out with. You will see that it is a political party that has and is responsible for the exercise of power in the country. And how he has good plans for the future. There are leaders who will remain at our helm listening to Serbia's wishes, still leading the SNS. A man who is currently with Travellers in Russia who is fighting for a better future and a better destiny for Serbia. Just like that, working 24 hours, not for your own party, working for your country, we can make big moves. What matters is, I'll end up with it, it's a good thing you said there's not enough time to talk about the good side of this law. Thank you for that, it is a proper work in parliament and so is the love of your country.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10854	Thank you. The word has a professor, Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10855	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr Orlic, a respected minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as you have seen before us, is a bill on the referendum and the people's initiative that my colleagues and colleagues spoke of very well before me. Let me just say in order to clarify a few sentences, it is true, as the predecessors said, that this is the oldest non-compliant legal act since the adoption of the Constitution in 2006. Yesterday and today, they're criticizing those who should have brought it. Everything they did not only in legal regulation, but also in practical terms in other activities they did out of marketing. They were only interested in marketing, not reality. Let me just say two more sentences. This amendment to the law on referenda in the People's Initiative has nothing to do with Rio Tint. That is already said, neither is it against the Constitution, but it is in harmony with the Constitution. You heard Gilas the day before yesterday. What he needs to be trusted. He did everything from marketing. He didn't do anything real. Well, here on November 19th, 2011 he lied criticizing us. He lied, quote: "None of us has signed that the Serbian people are genocide. “ A quote has been completed. Here, I'll tell him he signed it. The resolution was signed by his vice-president Marinika Tepic, the tenth in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia 2016, including Sulja Ugljanin, Enis Imamovic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Canak, Nenad Bilic, Natasa Micic, Goran Cabrdi, Elena Papuga, Marinika Tepic and Nada Lazic. Is that right, MPs? You who remember, and those who now look at us from their apartments and houses, while they were here, and left the National Assembly. Everything Dragan Gilas and his DS did was from the marketing reality. Gilasu never cared about the development of the city of Belgrade, respected Belgrade citizens, or the better life of our citizens, not only in Belgrade, but throughout Serbia. I'm going to bring some specifics out for Belgrade now, so that the Belgrade citizens can see that he did everything he did was out of marketing. That is not what I, not members of the SNS, say, but said by the former US ambassador here in Belgrade, Cameron Manter, who said in 2009 literally: "Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade's development is only marketing, not real. “ A quote has been completed. Did you hear this, dear Belgraders? That's why Gilas's when he was mayor of Belgrade was all marketing, not reality. That is why we, respected Belgrade citizens, will remember him and be recorded as the worst mayor in Belgrade's history. Here's the fact. Now I'm going to give a few more evidence. So for Gilas "Belgrade on Water" was just marketing, and for Aleksandra Vukića the complete reality. Is that right, respected Belgrade citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Let's move on. So for Gilas, the Belgrade Metro was just marketing, you remember, and for Alexander Vukic, you've seen complete reality these days. So for Gilas the reconstruction of the National Museum was just marketing, and for Alexander Vucica the reality. Thirteen years they've been working at the National Museum haven't moved since the beginning, like Donald Duck. Let's move on, for Gilas the construction of the Museum of Contemporary Art was just marketing, was it so respected Belgraders? Of course it is, and for Alexander Wolf, it's a complete reality. Let's move on, so for Gilas the reconstruction of the Republic Square in Belgrade was marketing, and for Alexander Vukic only the reality. Let's move on, so for Dragan Gilas, and in Europe otherwise known Gilas, building a fast track Belgrade-Novi Sad was only marketing, and respected Belgraders for Alexander Vukic's reality. Let's move on, so for Gilas the construction of a new modern health home in Borca, the Palilula municipality in Belgrade, I was marketing, and for Alexander Vukic, you saw complete reality. The home of health is one of the most modern built in Borca. So for Gilas the construction of the Clinical and Hospital Centre in Belgrade for years was marketing, and for Alexander Vukic, the respected Belgraders, you saw, reality. So for Gilas, the reconstruction of health homes in the municipality of Palilula, Grocko, Chukarica, not to mention further, was just marketing, but for Alexander Vukica's reality. So for Đilas the construction of "Dedenje 1" and "Dedenje 2" the Institute was only marketing, and for Aleksandra Vukic the reality of the respected Belgraders. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we heard yesterday and yesterday from a number of people who daily know nothing but swearing, spitting on SNS, especially by Alexander Vukic and his family and some MPs and ministers. I will now, after yesterday's interview with Dr. Teodorovic, say that Academyman Teodorovic has been abused, that he is idolatry, that he is rude, that he has been defiled, that he is without character, that he is dishonest, immoral, that he is arrogant, that he is cautious, that he is... That he's perfidious, that he's impure, that he's devious, that he's ashamed, that he's bold, that he's unworthy, that he's unworthy, that he's calculated, that he's corrupt, that he's unworthy, and that he's unconscious. Well, Dr. Teodorovic, after all you've been saying for the last three months, you're a man like this. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you have seen who reported and criticised the Army these days, none other than former Serbian Army Chief of Staff Zdravko Ponos. Who's Zdravko Ponoš? He made progress overnight. Let the citizens know why he has made progress and what connection he has with the then President of the Republic of Tadic, and not only with him, but also with some generals who were on the opposite side of our army. As Chief of Staff, he was executed for Serbia's Army, Zdravko Ponos. Look at the miracles, he gave it up when he saw it, even though Boris Tadic set it up. Then, lo and behold, he was drawn to the Wolf of Jeremic for money. Every member of Serbia's army today, believe me, red from shame when the Serbia Army rating gives Zdravko Ponos. As a general, he stood calm in front of NATO lieutenants, while the Serbian army bravely extradited to The Hague. Isn't that right, Mr. Posh? He promised the US senator that Serbia's Army would cut from 62,000 to 27,000. And he cut it down. Anyone who thought as a patriot in the Serbian Army was expelled during his time as head of Serbia's General Staff. He retired along with Tadic, Serbia's top personnel, 28 generals in the best years and the best patriot generals. Is that right, Mr. Posh, or isn't it? He destroyed Serbia's military and military weapons to a fire unit. He kept visiting the Western embassies, he's doing it today, it's a public secret. Mr. Posh, you're just a spy. He destroyed the PVO system, along with Tadic, 9,218 missile arrows, and even 420 launchers for those missiles. That's what Zdravko Posh did. In his time, Montenegro separated, and he worked on both him and Tadic to separate from Serbia. In his time, Kosovo's independence was declared. As his chief Tadic gave up Kosovo's independence, that's what I was talking about. He criticises Serbia's military equipment today, both he and Tadic. How not when they destroyed it. Tadic said, quote: "Why do we need the Serbian Army? “ A quote has been completed. Zdravko Ponoš destroyed 200 tanks, 120 armored transporters, 90 cowboys, 36 thresholds in old iron sold. He bought only eight rockets for MiG 29, which only flew on Saturdays during his time and carried hay for feeding horses. And today he is running for president of the Republic of Serbia. From Serbia neither S would have stayed. Who else answered these days? His boss, believe it or not, Boris Tadic, otherwise, called a lipicaner, pretty. This man has no shame in telling this authority in 14.11.2020: “This power of Alexander Vukic is filled with picturesque fools. ” So, Mr. Tadic, are hundreds of miles of highways for you fools? Mr. Tadic, is the Serbian Army now equipped at an envious level for you? Is building hundreds of homes of health, clinical centres and schools for you fools? For you, Mr. Tadic, nonsense is because, you say, we are today the sovereign country and Alexander Vukic the only free ruler in Europe. Tell me whether or not it is? That's why they're scrawny fools. For you, the nonsense of hundreds of factories were raised, hundreds of thousands of employees, and in your time 637 and 500,000, the exact number of these were taken, you fired the worker. How many billion euros have you entered the country, and how many have come out and you have no shame and you have no shame and you report back to politics? Imagine miracles that Boris Tadic resented Alexander Vukic for going to the funeral of the late Mitrovica Montenegrin-Priority Amphilochy. Well, I understand him, because Boris Tadic is not a member of the Serbian Orthodox Church, he is the Orthodox church of Montenegrins Milo Djukanovic. That's why he said it. That's why he resented it. That's what this is about. Imagine if I said it either Alexander Martinovic or Milenko Jovanovic or anyone here, or Mr. Mirkovic, anyone, anyone behind me sitting or you, Mr. Orlic, what would happen? Imagine what the Prime Minister said to Tadic. He said in 14.11.2020, "Anna Brnabic is semi-literate." What if we were to insult them like that? Well, is he in writing? Well, Ana Brnabic did not give up Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Tadic, you gave up Kosovo and Metohija. I've quoted you 100 times to this home and I'll do it again, no shame or shame. It will never, nor Alexander Vukic, give up Kosovo and Metohija, but will correct what can be corrected. Dear citizens, this very man I'm talking about, in 27.7.2006, in a conversation with US envoy Vizner, admitted and provided him with, quote now, a conviction that he broke and accepted Kosovo's independence as the outcome. This quote was transmitted by a prominent Belgrade newspaper on 8.9.2011. What do you expect from this man today? This one is running for president of Serbia. From Serbia neither would the "S" remain. So also former President Tadic said in a conversation with US Assistant Secretary of State Deputy Secretary Daniel Fried, "The independence of Kosovo and Metohija does not have to mean loss," pay attention to respected citizens, "if it is properly determined in voters' heads". That's how you cheated on your citizens, Mr. Tadic, and you have no shame and shame to go out in front of Serbian citizens. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, while the representatives of the main part of the opposition lie daily or, they say, are false, and I must for the sake of the citizens, the citizens know our language, lie daily about Alexander Vukic, about our country, about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, without a programme... Their program is just hate, and we advised them to make the program better. As they spit on the state of Serbia and citizens, Aleksandar Vukic daily hits the cornerstone of individual factories or opens, builds highways, schools, roads and so on, expanding Serbia's reputation in the world and today is at an envious level. They have a problem with work, and Boris Tadic, and Vuk Jeremic, the unhappy Alexic, and Sutanovac and that Borko Stefanovic, the Luftiguz ordinary. He was here for three minutes in 24 hours at the National Assembly. They've got a problem with work. And you, gentlemen of the so-called Gilas-controlled media, have a problem with Alexander Vukic's work. You have the biggest problem he's doing and you have to show it on your TV, not in 24... or in the "Dnevnik" of RTS in the 15th minute, but in the first, when the statesman comes, when one factory is built. That's your problem. In three months he's built more factories than you have in five years, and that's the problem, because they have to show it. You have a problem with your work, just like you had a problem with your work in this home. Mr. Gilas is the beginner of a Javezluka in the state of Serbia. He called on the MPs of the people, remember, lastly calling for them to leave this house, to fight in the street, and this is what he said when he came from the United States: “Let us withdraw the messengers of the people. We'll get the media. They have to explode somewhere." Is that how the country is defended, Mr. Gilas, from 619m euros in 56 accounts and who knows how many countries? Dear Belgraders, three and a half billion dinars stole from you from pockets that this government of Radojić and Vesic is returning now to the children's name. There were 9,500 dinars in the kindergarten, and how much is less today? Now, that's facts. Go back to this home, cross the data. You won't? And when you were, you were coming in for five minutes, talking and running from this home. In the end, these days, the trouble happened in Croatia. If you have seen, respected citizens, the Croatian press has announced that Nikola Tesla has left power to Alexander Vukic. He left his powers, he says, because no ruler in Europe has ever met with the world's largest, as they say, leaders of the world more than Alexander Vukic has. Nineteen times with Vladimir Putin, with a Chinese, with an American vice president, with a Chinese president. They've listed everything. Dear former my neighbour Croats, it is true that Nikola Tesla has left power. I know who has these powers and who beats them both to Aleksandra Vukic and the Serbian people, and the Serbian people through Alexander Vukic all positive energy. My advice is to you: turn to yourself, return the Serbs to the fires of eternity. No earthquakes will happen to you or floods. Face some things. Welcome this Serbian people, because he never hated Croatians or Croatia, because he fought for centuries for Croatia, but it was just the other way around. While our president is spreading international reputation abroad today, not only internationally, but he is fighting for the health of all our citizens and our neighbours in the region, he is leading peace policy, stability policy and Serbia's modernisation policy... This word "modernization", accelerated modernisation will be interesting for another four years, because we are entering a phase of accelerated modernisation, and therefore we are being attacked from both the east and the west and the south and these worst, inside, domestic these whispers, which, through certain non-governmental organisations, in the fruit of the environment, demonstrate not only the state of Serbia and the president of Vucic, but also the Serbian people. On that behalf, lived the Republic of Serbia, lived our president! Let him be happy today, and I believe he'll be talking to Putin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10856	Thank you, Professor. The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10857	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, the honourable minister with your assistants, the story of the referendum is the story of whether we politicians want to hear the voice of the people, whether we politicians are interested in what the problems of the people are, do we want to solve the problems that bother them daily? It's a story of a referendum. Are our citizens at the center of our attention or is it something else? It is absolutely unacceptable any criticism on this subject, essentially and phenomenally I cannot accept it. Let's go back to ancient Greece. It was precisely where democracy was conceived that the most significant decisions were made in the markets of Athenian, in consultation with the people, in the vote of the people, and there are the beginnings of a direct democracy which is essentially what I am, a concept of democracy and means, the rule of the people. Because without the people, there's no authority, and there's no state. In any case, today, if we see, my colleague Natasa Mihajlovic has also stated that even the most modern countries, the most developed countries of the West, such as Switzerland, the referendum and the people's initiative, use almost every month to reach decisions that correspond to the people, which affect the people. They're practically from trivial things, for example, what would look like a square, where there would be a fountain, where wooded, to more complex things, would decide by popular will, by direct vote of the people. How come, for example, we have in the last two months and they already organise the second referendum on November 29th on what to look like a piece of politics in that country, to see what the people think, what does the people think about those who don't get vaccinated, what does the people think about those who threaten others? There's nothing more important than that. The bill that is before us today, and we have seen that it passed almost 15 years ago, is certainly more modern and comprehensive and solves all the problems that we have encountered throughout this many years in the implementation of the referendum itself and the people's initiative. It is an amazing fact that only three referendums and only one national initiative, a good people's initiative, have succeeded in our country since the start of the multi-party. "Tian's Law," where we practically imposed the most severe punishments, including the life sentence, for people who are ruthless, for people who commit the most disgusting crimes. It's a folk initiative. The people's initiative is, since everyone else is talking more about the referendum, it's very important to me, and I think it's really a tool that our citizens use very little, precisely because the law isn't good. Look, we put in a week for people to collect 30,000 signatures in the past law. That's incredible and impossible. It is the legislator's mistake that we did not have the people's initiatives and did not involve the people, and you will see how life-saving it is from an example that I will give you and how good it is for a society, for its democracy, for the people to say what they want. And we have one single initiative! I must commend you that we in the New Market are trying to listen to what the citizens want through the budget. Every year before budgeting, we do a survey asking people, citizens, how they want and through which projects to spend our common money. We've both been last year, and before, and these, we've practically heard what they want. Today we have 10 projects that we have run for, and by 26 this month we will find out what our citizens want in Pazar - whether they want us to spend our budget on, there are 10 items, whether to improve our health response, buy new vehicles to the patronage services, whether to clean up some dumps or to repair, whether to treat rare diseases, to repair some dumps, etc., etc. We'll ask the people what they want. Believe me, interest is enormous. People want to participate in policymaking and their future. And that's the message. The poll is not a folk initiative, but it is a close communication with a people who must be part of the government. We didn't fall from Mars, we're part of the people, and we represent that people. I am convinced that the more frequent implementation of these people's initiatives, including the referendum, will contribute not only to the involvement of people and citizens in the decision-making process, but to the strengthening of the trust of our citizens in its power, which is very important to us today. They'll restore trust in power. It's very important to us today at the time of the pandemic. One study that I want to complete with, which has just been conducted in 26 cantons of Switzerland, has shown that these people who often carry out the referendums are much happier in life and have this personal sense of happiness and satisfaction, than other parts of the world where the referendum is not so dominant. There are two explanations. First, which directly creates a policy that affects their lives and others, no less important, which they ask themselves, what they are involved. Just that they're wondering isn't really a surprise that democracy itself improves mood and brings happiness. People still can't live on white bread, but they're social beings, moral beings, they want to participate, that they're part of the decision, they want to be part of the system and create their own future. I'll finish and end up with Aristotle's idea, because Aristotle is an ancient moralist and someone who's established ethics, and believe me, if you read a little philosophy, that ancient philosophers are the strongest day and day at the time of modern philosophy. Great Aristotle tells the great truth: "People need democracy so they can pursue virtue and try to act in harmony with it on a social plan and thus reach common happiness." Given that the modern and efficient Law on Referendum and People's Initiative makes it easier for our citizens to participate in the decision-making process, raise the level of trust of citizens in power and ultimately make our citizens happier and more satisfied, the SDPS will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10858	Thank you. The word is from the vice president of the Assembly, Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10859	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the adoption of a new Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, respects the recommendations of all relevant international documents, beginning with the Universal Declaration on Human Rights of 1948, which recognises and acknowledges that everyone has the right to participate in the public affairs of his country, directly or through the freely elected representatives. Connecting the principle of direct participation of citizens with the right of citizens to local self-government was made for the first time, also in 1985, by adopting the European Charter of Local Self-Government in the Council of Europe, and in 2018, the Republic of Serbia passed the Law on confirming an additional protocol to this particular European Charter of Local Self-Government on the right to participate in the affairs of local authorities. As part of a delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for many years and in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I must mention that this very organisation, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted two recommendations, was one in 2005, and the second in 2007, which is appealed to the use of direct democracy, and a fund was established under the name of the European Institute for Initiatives and Referendum. Let's get back to the Republic of Serbia, that is, local self-government and autonomous provinces. Although, according to the law and the autonomous province itself and the units of local self-government and the Constitution, they have the opportunity to use the referendum and the people's initiative as a form of direct democracy in matters of their jurisdiction, it is clear, and today we have heard in several presentations of respected previous speakers, that due to the restrictive provisions and access to this existing very old referendum law over 27 years, very few citizens' initiatives have been successfully and adopted. If we are talking about the AP Vojvodina, six civil initiatives have been launched in the assembly of the AP Vojvodina. There was only one debate during this period, and neither was adopted. Therefore, for us, the MPs of the SVM Group, it is extremely important that what we heard in the previous presentation, that this proposal extends the deadline for the signing of the National Initiative by seven, which was indeed the lowest possible deadline in parallel practice, from seven to 90 days, as well as the provision of which the president of our parliamentary group spoke in his presentation – the introduction of an electronic folk initiative. This regulation is in fact in line with the new standards mentioned by the Council of Europe by adopting Recommendation 2004/11 of the Committee of Ministers on Legal, Operational and Technical Standards in Electronic Voting. In view of this, therefore, the restrictive nature of the applicable law does not surprise at all that the citizens had no confidence so far, they had little knowledge of the possibilities of these initiatives and even worse use of them. So they did not believe in direct democratic participation. That's why it's important. Of course, I believe, I sincerely believe that the goal of all of us is to encourage the direct participation of citizens in decision-making. I must point out, since there has been a lot of talk today about the Venice Commission, that there have been a few opinions both on the foreplay and on the draft of this proposal ahead of us, but I also have to mention some of the recommendations of the Venice Commission. One of the recommendations was to abolish or at least reduce the fees for the signing, starting with the fact that citizens would probably respond positively to the eased possibilities of direct democracy, which is partly done. I just mentioned Switzerland. We must stress that this proposal is largely built and somehow watching the Swiss do it, how they're so successful. So the proposal for this referendum law and the People's Initiative is like a Swiss model. We must not ignore the fact that 223 referendums and civil initiatives were conducted at federal level in Switzerland from 1981 to 2006. We'll agree it's an imposter number. A lot was written in the press, it was said here today that the special attention of all, and the public, and the provision of which the concept of fullness is lifted. It is proposed that the decision was taken in a referendum following the adoption of this law if voted for by the majority of the citizens who went out in the territory for which the referendum was called. Although on the one hand it is believed that the high degree of turnout is an indicator of the democratic legitimacy of the referendum, practice is very colourful and different. I must stress that if we talk about comparative practice, compare experience and what is the situation in other countries most countries do not predict the quorum of fullness of results, and where it exists appeared in two forms. One is the quorum of output, and the other is the quorum of confirmation or verification. I'm going to try to make specific examples of different countries. For example, more than 50% of eligible voters are required in Italy, Croatia, Bulgaria, Malta, Lithuania, Russia, Macedonia, Latvia. The quorum is half the voters who participated in the parliamentary elections, while for example, in Azerbaijan, only 25% of voters were enrolled. In Poland and Portugal, if the turnout is below 50% of the referendum is defacto considered consultative and is not binding. On the other hand, in order for the referendum to be valid rarely requires a high percentage of votes for, for example in Latvia where it is 50% plus one, and more often requires so-called. a particularly relative majority. In Hungary, neighbouring Hungary, it is one quarter of the electoral body, in Denmark 40% of the electoral body, in Armenia, Albania is one third of the voters. In some political systems, there is a prerequisite for a double majority, for example in Australia, in addition to conditions that at least half of the elected voters must vote for the proposal, the proposal must be supported in at least four of the six federal units. It is common for people's initiatives and referendums to be guaranteed by the constitutions. The exception is Belgium, the Netherlands, Norway, Cyprus, which practice ad hoc laws. The comparison, in the last decade of the previous 20th century and the first decade of the 21st century, confirms that there is a growing awareness among citizens of the importance of direct citizens' decision, for example from 1990 to 2000, 405 national referendums were held around the world, and three times higher between 2000 and 2010, the figure increased dramatically. This is also confirmed by various public opinion surveys in individual EU Member States, as well as at EU level. In France, for example, 82% of citizens are in favour of a referendum that is initiated by citizens, while in the Netherlands where there is no constitutional obligation only a advisory referendum – 81% of citizens support the introduction of a mandatory referendum. In line with all the recommendations of the Venice Commission are defined and different kinds of referendums and we heard about it here today. The pre-biscite prescribed by the Constitution falls within the category of mandatory referendums and most often concerns the constitutional changes themselves. Such a form of referendum was prescribed, as we heard, by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but also by the constitutions of Switzerland, Austria, Denmark, Australia, Liechtenstein, in the 49 states of the United States, as well as by the provinces of Bavaria and Hesen in the Federal Republic of Germany. In order for citizens to participate in the political decision-making process, it is important that they be objectively informed on the subject of referendums and national initiatives and therefore SVM MPs welcome provisions that extend the deadline for objective information to citizens from eight to 20 days. To make decisions, citizens simply need to be informed, which is a way to reduce political apathy, abstinence and stronger participatory culture. So we certainly support this proposal. We will vote for him in the voting day, and we deeply believe that the application of this law will lead to an increase in how the referendum, as well as successful folk initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10860	Thank you. The word is from the MPs of the people, Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10861	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Orlic, the esteemed Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, such as my esteemed colleagues in the previous part of today's day, is today the draft law on the referendum and the People's Initiative. At the beginning of my presentation, I must say that this is a bill that represents one of the most significant legal acts in the current assembly. With the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act, in Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clearly prescribed that sovereignty comes from citizens, who carry out this sovereignty either through a referendum, or through a national initiative, or through their legitimately elected representatives, or from the MPs. This law allows citizens of the Republic of Serbia to express their will on certain important issues concerning both the state and society as a whole. It is important to say that the current Law on Referendum and People's Initiative was passed here in the House of the National Assembly in 1994, and that it did not suffer the procedure of alignment with the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which I would, on the one hand, cite as obvious legal subsidies. All-European societies are developing much faster today than we could all expect in 1994. The issues that are important to the state or the whole society require attitudes and opinions of a large number of members of that society, because that is the only way we can achieve the principle of democracy, and only in this way can we provide citizens with the opportunity to express their will on certain important issues. But, of course, it is necessary that the will and intention of a whole or a particular society have its legal basis on certain issues, which is precisely the Law on the referendum and the People's Initiative. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted long ago in 2006, and given the very dynamic political, social, and other different circumstances, the Constitution clearly defines the principles as the highest legal act, clearly defines the rights and obligations, clearly defines the provisions relating to territorial and political organisation, but also issues which are important for the exercise of the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is obvious that political will did not exist in 2008, that the current Law on Referendum and People's Initiative is fully embodied with the country's highest legal act. When we talk about these reasons, we can view them exclusively through political reasons. Today we have complete hysteria in our country when we talk about the proposal for a referendum law and a people's initiative. This hysteria is driven exclusively by representatives of opposition parties who have not done anything until 2012, or to use existing legal acts with European legislation, and if they have always said here that they fully advocated European values and that they are fully in favour of European legislation. I will remind you, in 2006, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was passed, 48 hours past any legal provisions, past any legal practice of citizens of the Republic of Serbia voted 48 hours to succeed. The result of this referendum is that we from Montenegro at that time, from the common state, have received another neighbour. Why did the representatives of the then DS not match existing legal acts with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? One of the reasons why this bill entered the House of the National Assembly is the upcoming referendum when it comes to amending parts of the Constitution relating to part of the judiciary. Today you have representatives of the opposition parties, representatives of the extraparliamentary parties, and here I am mostly talking about Mr Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Lutovac and others who represent the bloc who do not want to talk to legitimately elected representatives of their people and who speak, and who are calling on their voters not to go to the upcoming referendum. In all the talks held with representatives of the current political parties, the Venice Commission expressed its maximum, or stated that the maximum commitment to the current legislative acts is to be met with European legislation and also said that we have achieved some, or positive progress when we talk about this serious and responsible process. But we must remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that representatives of the then DS where all of these are sitting today, who represent DS resets, who need to be united in order to get to their citizens and to get some legitimacy to enter the House of National Assembly, they have not listened to certain proposals, certain constructive views of the then called by the Venice Commission, and because of these non-acceptations of the views of the Venice Commission, we have been given the opportunity to implement judicial reform in 2009 and 2010, in order for the DS judiciary as the third independent branch of power to be influenced by its influence. We have the same situation today, the exact same situation, so that they invite their electoral body not to go to the referendum. Why not go to a referendum, which is the problem, that if we, as the current political majority, want the judiciary to be even more independent, even more transparent, even more objective, which certainly is much better than it was in the period before 2012. You've had previous days of hysteria when we're talking about the bill of expropriation. Who needs that? It is necessary for those who have not even read the bill. It is a bill that was also passed in 1995, and they didn't remember to customize it, i.e. they didn't remember to bring amendments and additions, and that the law corresponds to the real social circumstances that existed 20 years later. They're telling us everything, and they didn't do anything until 2012. What is certainly the subject of this political hysteria of theirs, but not of political hysteria, so that they tell us something concrete, that they, by their own motion, improve a certain legislative proposal, because they do not have the opportunity to sit here with us today in the National Assembly and discuss it, because we have not done as representatives of the SNS anything negative that we do not allow them to enter the parliament here. They did it because of their political vanity and by making a decision to boycott the elections. Today, Mr Lutovac, the president of the DS tells us about how sovereignty was taken from the people. How was she taken from the people? As a carrier of sovereignty, the people transfer this sovereignty to the legitimately elected MPs. I remind you that in June 2020, SNS was supported by 60% of citizens, and these elections were given by certain opposition parties, but that these elections were legitimately recognised by many European and world institutions. Today, those who did not want to be taken into account by the people, because they do not have a political agenda, they do nothing good for their people, they are telling us today that the question of censorship is the question that should lead to people not going to the referendum and that it is a condition that people should go to the streets, as it has been for the past 48 hours, and that I do not know what reasons they are protesting just because the law came from the government at whose head Ana Brnabić is and they only used it as a reason to spit again on Alexander Vukic and SNS. What's the problem with censorship? There's no problem when we talk about censorship. The provision exists in today's 2006 constitution, that decisions are made mostly by voters. But what's the problem, what we wanted, is to imitate our legislation with European legislation, part of it, but on the other hand, not to let when it comes to certain issues that are relevant to the state and society, to, in some ways, see what the electoral body will do that we can take under the term - abstinents. Because if we don't get 50 plus 1, if the abstinents stay at home for a variety of reasons, we'll have a situation to hold a referendum when we talk about an important issue, and that's the question of the judiciary today, that referendum doesn't work out completely, and that we have to postpone that referendum from one year to the next. It is the same mantra, the same mantra census was used for the Expropriation Act, although the law clearly defines and clearly guarantees the personal property rights of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. To avoid debt, I would just like to say that the bill is certainly fully protected by the Constitution and the law protects the personal and electoral rights of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and clearly shows the provisions relating to timely notification of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Not only will we fully protect every individual and electoral right, what opposition representatives will not say is that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives will work on the referendum issue in the coming days, that it will forward it to the RIK. When we talk about RIK, why opposition representatives do not say they will have new six members, that this has never happened in modern history, to give extraparliamentary parties to RIK members. In an interview Dejan Djurdjevic said it well, we had the will to give opposition representatives an atomic bomb that they do not know how to use. No, they don't know anything about using what we give them. We give them members of the temporary media surveillance body, they rebel. We've got members of the RIK, they won't give their representatives. They also talk again after they get six members of the RIK, that the elections will be illegal. It's just looking for a reason to justify the absence of your political programme. I hope, personally, as a member of the SNS, together with my MP, Aleksandar Vukic - for our children, I will vote in favour of this bill, because I really believe that this and similar legislative proposals provide conditions for better, stronger and more modern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10862	Thank you. Since no word has been reported on the list of MPs' groups. Before the initial search is concluded, I ask if the words of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want to do so. Mr. Miletic, you have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10863	I thank you, Dr. Orlic. Once again, respected Serbian citizens, the party of justice and reconciliation MPs and the United Peasant Party will support the proposal for a referendum law because it is good, because it is necessary and I think it is possible that we as a people take a better path, that the democratic instruments they have now given us, that we use it in the best way. So today, as well as in the coming days, we will need to get as close to our people as possible, to tell them the truth, and the only real truth is that it is our desire to get as close to the people as possible and to be for the benefit of every citizen of our country of Serbia. Now I would take the opportunity to end this day, or International Day of Fight against Women, to congratulate all women, to fight, to be strong and normal that we as men, as men, never come into a situation to do anything that is bad for our wife. A big problem that was before, but our women need to know that we have to be there for them and that if every woman has any family problems, at work she can't keep her mouth shut, she has to say it loud and clear, because she has a law that protects every man and every woman and every man. Once again, my dear friends, in front of the United Peasants' Party, I will vote in favour of the bill's proposals, and so does our parliamentary club. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10864	Thank you. The word has a minister, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10865	Thank you, Chairman, thank you to all the MPs who participated today in the debate. At 4:00 p.m., we are expected to have a regular term of government issues, and I assume that we will also rely on this topic that is extremely current in Serbia, and on the other hand I expect that since 1600 hours we are talking about visiting the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic Russia and the results that have been achieved during today's meeting with the President of the Russian Federation, because this is indeed a continuation of good co-operation, a continuation of excellent co-operation, the real point is that the relationship between Serbia and Russia has never been at a higher point of co-operation. About all this later, but this is the last piece of information I get from that visit, so that's why I want you to... But I guess the prime minister will talk more about that visit to Russia and, of course, I'm President Vukic later. Let's get back to this referendum bill. I thanked you very much for your participation and for all who, during the preparation of this law, have helped a great deal, and for the state authorities and institutions, of course, NGOs, international institutions that have helped us to get a bill that is in line with European rules and European practice. Of course, there is also a great contribution from the Venice Commission, which has insisted all along, from the very beginning, to being in line with the Venice principles and we have succeeded in that. The abolition of censorship was one of the things that the Venice Commission strongly welcomed, because by abolishing the censorship, you are actually strengthening civil activity and allowing what you are, citizens, to translate into that people's initiative, which will be confirmed in the referendum, and then become a certain legal act. What we've changed in this referendum law and the people's initiative, I'm just going to briefly tax it out, so other than abolishing the censorship, we've extended the signing time to 90 days, and it's been seven days before. It is also not mandatory to report a signing point to the interior ministry, as was the earlier case. This significantly facilitates the process of collecting signatures. It's also available on electronic signature collection, where you're free of signature overtures, because you'll have to verify electronically otherwise through the e-Government portal, so there's no cost of 40 dinars, because we've heard a lot of criticism at the expense of the overta signing costing 40 dinars. Here, once again to confirm that really when it comes to a good idea, when you're carrying something that is a good policy that will improve the lives of citizens in your environment, whether it's a local, a province or a republic, 40 dinars is the least of the problems in the whole story. We have defined the kinds of referendums in particular, and we have also received extraordinary commendation from the Venice Commission in the way we have defined the different kinds of referendums. Then the referendum campaign, it had not been before, as well as the way of funding the referendum campaign, as well as the precisely defined all phases of the referendum, where earlier without such a good definition there could have been room for different types of abuses, and this time it is not a situation. We're talking about a referendum campaign, it takes 45 to 60 days to hold a referendum. It is very important that you know that RIK also has an obligation to prepare complete objective information for voters, voters, which will be delivered to the address of each voter's residence. Information that contains arguments for and against issues, i.e. topics discussed in the referendum and is obliged to be published in the media and on the internet, so that voters are in a position to make a good decision on how to plead in the referendum. The deadline for the objection is also extended, so that protection of voters' rights is strengthened compared to the previous period. The composition of the voting committees and the bodies implementing the referendum have also been defined to detail, and this has not been the case before. Of course, what I have already mentioned, an act with information on the subject of the referendum is something that is new and very important. And when we talk about this referendum having something to do with Rio Tint and Kosovo, I will repeat, this proposal for a referendum law has nothing to do with Rio Tint and Kosovo. The proposal for a referendum law has nothing to do with Rio Tint or Kosovo. This should be repeated countless times, as so many people say lies and Protestants, all those who call themselves environmental activists, and at this point in fact lead to a serious error the largest number of citizens in Serbia. The best legislative proposal for a referendum at the moment, not only in Serbia, in the region, was confirmed by the Venice Commission. The implementation of this referendum will be another exam for all of us, a referendum on which constitutional amendments in the area of justice should be confirmed, and this will be another test for us, and I think that today, we will wait and vote, during today, we have passed another very serious and difficult test on the seriousness of our country in the European judiciary system. I thank you once again for your cooperation, and I can't wait to see January 16th, to see how we're going to implement all this stuff we wrote in this law. This will close the mouth of all those who suspect at this time that our draft laws hide something other than the great progress and open doors of democracy in Serbia, above all to carry out the will of citizens and various civil initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10866	I thank the promoters and all those who participated in today's debate. Now, according to members 27 and 205. Rules of Procedure, I set a break until 4:00 p.m., when we continue to work in the session's session on asking questions to the government last Thursday of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10867	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, allow me to remind you once more of the rules of the Rules of Procedure. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. Following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum period of two minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall apply, by not allowing replication and indication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I welcome the Prime Minister and members of the government. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The first on the list is MP Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10868	Dear Prime Minister Mrs. Brnabic, my question is being addressed to a debate that has been going on in parliament this week, and it's kind of rhetorical. This is the question – is everything we are doing right now and the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative and the Expropriation Act, as well as constitutional changes actually serve to make the government a better environment for foreign investors in Serbia? This appears to be a rhetorical issue and can be interpreted as such, but when I explain it, we will find that the Serbian government and the Serbian ruling coalition have the wrong concept of developing the country, in terms of continuing Euro-Atlantic integration, in the same way that it has basically been one abandoned ideology of Margaret Thatcher, which means that everything you do is to make the state as weak and as much as possible to come up with large capital and that it will make a good development in society. I think that theory has already ended and that it is high time to move towards a kind of ethics, i.e. strengthening the state, which must both foreign and domestic capital to put under control. Why am I saying that? When you look at what my colleagues from the SNS are constantly criticising -- the former regimes that have committed robbery privatisations, they have done it because they also enslaved this idea of Euro-Atlantic integration, because robbery privatisations are the result of a quick and reckless privatisation and they have privatised the economy. At the time of the SNS government, we experienced a kind of privatisation of the state. When I say that, I don't mean in a peorative way, but in fact, because let's just say the idea of public-private partnerships, of all these things where you give public services to private firms, is a kind of privatisation of the state, by the idea of a weak state, so as not to burden the budget. This is precisely what we look at in the notary, which meant that everything that used to be, the services of the verifying, which went into the budget of the direct state, has been converted into something that today private people take as their profit and are very taxed and thus a small and disabling state, i.e. Citizens, to use justice. On the other hand, there are forced perpetrators who were also activated during the SNS authorities. These are also private individuals doing the work of a court enforcer, who once served as a state. There's this painful situation with foreign banks, which day and day are trying to avoid their responsibility for robbing people through imaginary services. It's used through the Supreme Cassation Court and its interpretation of the law. Then, there's this story with Rio Tinto, which already campaigns through RTS in Serbia for a positive solution to his desire to dig ore here, and on the other hand, the same RTS forbids our citizens to release another video that would put it all a little differently. So, all that says is that maybe we're in the wrong concept. I also personally think that Chinese companies should be controlled, because this "Linglong" thing was a big scandal, for the simple reason that, no matter how much I respect the Chinese civilization alternative, I know that capital, whatever it is called, is the same and that it needs to be controlled. Just one more thing, I'm sorry I broke a little term, I asked a few times, and no one from the government answered me, I'm not sure if it was true, but it would be disastrous if we had only five mining inspectors on some 300 mining companies working in Serbia to control it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10869	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10870	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I must somehow, it seems to me and most of us who deal with politics in the Republic of Serbia today marked the day, to thank President Alexander Vukic for the phenomenally negotiated agreement with President Putin. I would say that we all expected for a long time this day when President Aleksandar Vukic met with President Putin about, among other things, the price of gas and a new treaty for the Republic of Serbia and with fear today expected it to pass. What I heard from President Alexander Vukic, like everyone, from his address from Sochi is better than he could ever have imagined from us. We're extending, practically annexing an existing contract for the next six months, for the most difficult winter months, at the moment that, today, the price of gas is $964, when from day to day the price of gas passes, that we in the hardest months have $270, so in the next six months, under the same conditions that we had before this gas crisis, the energy crisis is an incredible thing, an unspeakable, unrealistic thing for the Republic of Serbia. If you think about the economy and our citizens, our consumers, this is security and stability, but this is also an indicator of how well Serbia is fighting in the most difficult situations. For our economy, this means that at the price of gas, we are virtually five times more competitive today than anyone else on the world and European market. It's amazing stuff. Thank you very much. Thank you also to the partners of the Russian Federation and President Putin for everything they have done with this great act for both our citizens and our economy. Now to return to the subject and questions of the honourable MP. So when you say that all of this we're doing here is creating a better environment for foreign investors, I'll tell you two things. One, when we create a better environment for foreign investors, that also means that we create a better environment for domestic investors. There has been no difference between foreign and domestic investors in the Republic of Serbia since 2015. Before that, there was a big difference. In the first decade of 2000, foreign investors were greatly privileged. When the Investment Act was changed, if I'm not mistaken, it was 2015 or 2016, we can check, according to this new law that most of the National Assembly, which ultimately makes, the backbone is SNS, we've evened out domestic and foreign investors. We have righted one great injustice. So when we fight to have a good environment for investors, which I think is good for our country and for the citizens of Serbia and there's nothing wrong with that, we fight for investors, for domestic and foreign. When we fight that we have a good environment for investors, which I think is good for our country and for the citizens of Serbia, and there is absolutely nothing wrong with that, we fight for investors, for domestic and foreign. When you ask, do you create a good environment for foreign investors, then you practically ask me, do you fight for an even better environment for family firms in the Republic of Serbia? Are you fighting for a better environment for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Serbia? Yeah, we're fighting. I don't see anything wrong with that. But are the laws you mentioned above, above all amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act and the Referendum Act, due to investors? No, they have nothing to do with investors, neither law nor law. The referendum law has something to do with our obligation to bring the law into line with the Constitution and respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The law was due to be amended by 2009. Unfortunately, it hasn't changed. In that sense, we did not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has changed, has changed some of the provisions that had then to be changed in the referendum law, so at this point we have to amend the Law on Referendum in order to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the Expropriation Act, as I talked about during the budget debate, the Expropriation Act has nothing to do with investors, has to do with capital investment projects, but primarily capital projects financed and implemented and implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in order to make life in the Republic of Serbia even more quality, in order to implement capital projects more efficiently or efficiently than we do at this point in order to build both highways and railways and similar projects, above all. You know, today, unfortunately, in the Republic of Serbia, we lost another life at the Ibaric Master's. You know, how many lives we lost at the Ibari Masteral until we opened the highway to Cačka, the Ibari Masteral of Death, as it is unfortunately called in the Republic of Serbia. Every day we could build that highway faster was worth one or two or three human lives. So the highway to Požega, I said, and I said, the day I was going to defend the budget and present the budget, if we had this Expansion Act, we would have opened up a highway for Saint Nicholas to Požega. Unfortunately, we didn't, so we'll open the highway to Požega in 2022. And again, it has nothing to do with foreign investors, it has nothing to do with domestic investors, it really is all in line with the best interests of the Republic of Serbia and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and it is about better quality of citizens, and not a better environment for foreign investors, although again I don't think there is anything wrong with having a better environment for foreign investors because this means a better environment for domestic investors. You mentioned several times in your presentation of Euro-Atlantic integration, so let me correct you and remind you because it is amazing to me that there is a MP in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who still doesn't know that, we are not on the Euro-Atlantic path, we are on the European path. We seek European integration, not Atlantic integration. We don't want to be a member of the NATO Pact, we've said it many times, repeated it several times. For the last time, I made that clear and loud at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during one of the meetings, a session of a working meeting just in the presence of NATO representatives. We are military neutral, that's our policy, that's at the end of our people's wishes, so that I can correct you because obviously you're not informed in that sense are not Euro-Atlantic integration, these are European integrations. Since you've mentioned a lot of things, I'll just sort of answer some. As far as public-private partnerships are concerned, and to say that public-private partnerships are some kind of privatisation. Absolutely, 100% incorrect. Just to correct you and there, public-private partnerships have absolutely nothing to do with privatisation, when you privatize something you sold to someone. It's theirs, from now on forever, until they decide eventually to sell, and the state may sometimes decide to buy it again, but it's theirs, at their disposal. There is no connection in this sense to the state of Serbia anymore, with ownership of something that is privatised. In public-private partnerships with or without concession elements, ownership remains the Republic of Serbia. When we gave the airport a concession, it was our airport. A private partner manages the airport and invests in the airport because he believes that he will, of course, profit from it. It will make some profit only if the airport makes a profit by paying one part of the profits to the Republic of Serbia and after 25 years returning the airport with its new infrastructure to the Republic of Serbia. How is that some kind of privatisation? It's a great delusion that you're in. So we understand each other, it has nothing to do with privatisation. When you privatize something, you're no longer the owner of it. When you give something in a public-private partnership you're still the owner of it and it comes back to you. It remains the property of the Republic of Serbia. Finally and again, Rio Tinto. Do they expect a positive solution to their, as you say, for their case or not? I really don't know, and that's just their problem. We are clear, loud, once, twice, 100 times, here's a million times to tell you, tell you, there are two things that will determine whether this project will be implemented or not. Whether Rio Tinto will be in Serbia or not. One thing, first thing, the most important thing, the judge on environmental impact assessment. A study on the environmental impact assessment, the entire project, each part of it individually and mines and dumps and that processing facility and cumulative impact all three projects together. Another block, or another big thing that is needed, if a study of environmental impact assessment and three things and a cumulative impact says it's okay and another thing is what people are going to say about the project. Without that, there's no front and no project. Completely clear, completely transparent, completely unequivocal. The fact that someone is politicizing it, because there is no other idea what to present to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is their problem. I think that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia heard us well and clearly and loudly, and now I say it again and have fully understood and appreciated it. So, the environment and what the people are going to say about it. A study on environmental impact assessment may say it is a great project and will not have a negative impact on the environment, but that people in Serbia will say we will not, and then it will be no. So, without any anxiety about it, no one's gonna do anything overnight. We will not work like those who allowed Rio Tint in 2004, to repeat, in 2004, those hypocrites, who are protesting Rio Tint today, gave Rio Tint nine licenses, including a permit to drill a major diameter. Those who today dare to see them as hypocrites, and we politicians and all citizens, to watch them in front of this House or in front of the government or in front of the Presidency, those who signed these permits to Rio Tintu, who praised the project. You have a press clipping ever since, look what they've been saying about Rio Tint, the same ones that are protesting today against Rio Tinta. Because, unfortunately, they have no other agenda, no other plan and nothing else to offer the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so they're getting hold of this. Whether they hope for a positive solution or not will depend on only these two factors and nothing will work without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10871	Thank you. Ambassador Vladan Glisic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10872	As far as public-private partnerships are concerned, yes, I suppose you know that I know so much about both law and economy and that I know that this is not a situation where someone privatises the resources of a country. That's why public-private partnerships are invented, so corporations can get into partnership with the state and use public resources without perhaps having responsibility for what's left behind. I'm talking about it because we have experience. The Latino-American states also had experience with public-private partnerships in the areas of sewage, water, water industry, where they were giving foreign corporations, the type of Rio Tinto only in this area of water management to manage these waters, and they, because they were focused on profit, came to reduce everything they needed to maintain the system, so when the system broke, they simply retreated because it was not their property. They pulled out the profits and the property remained state-owned. So, a public-private partnership is one concept that is definitely related to the idea of a weak state, strong capital, especially a foreign one that is present and a country that serves foreign capital. That is why I mentioned a public-private partnership as one symbolic form of it all, but my emphasis was on private perpetrators who forcefully execute judicial judgments, on notaries, on the behaviour of foreign banks in Serbia, and on behaviour and justice that will soon be freed from the control of the people's representatives and will be able to be controlled by some other centres of power of domestic and foreign power. As far as military neutrality is concerned, yes, it is declarative and while the position of this authority may be declarative. True military neutrality is achieved by the Law on Military Neutrality, which is constantly avoided from passing and by the request of one of the international truths, it would be best for the Security Council to guarantee this military neutrality. Until we meet these formal legal conditions, we will not end Euro-Atlantic integration. Why I'm talking about Euro-Atlantic integration. Because according to SOFA agreements and similar agreements, NATO soldiers have absolutely no need for us to become part of the NATO Pact, they are entitled to fly across our skies whenever they want and as they will, have every possible and impossible advantage that a neutral state could not allow such an alliance to use. So, in that sense, in that sense, I wanted to explain what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10873	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10874	I wanted to say a few things since you started in the previous show on Rio Tint. Two things. First, let's get back to the past and then give a message to the citizens and citizens of Serbia, but first and foremost to the people who live in the Adriatic, Loznica, first and foremost the Mačvani District. So, first research, but let's just count them pretty well for years when it was. So, the first solution to research lithium in the Adriatic territory was first given in 2004, then given in 2005, then once again in late 2005, and then in 2007, in 2008. These are the years when the Serbian Progressive Party was not in power, neither Vukic nor Brnabic, nor all of us. So again in 2008, in 2009, then in April 2011, then in December 2013, when the solution was confirmed when more, it simply had to be done. Now, what's the big deal? These are research solutions, they are neither the first nor the last and they are happening in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, not only for lithium but also for other very important critical minerals that are important in our country, but for the message of this government and the message of the president, and above all the messages of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia first gave no solution to the exploitation of lithium in the territory of the Adriatic. Secondly, the government of the Republic of Serbia did not sign any contracts with the company Rio Tinto, none at all. No matter what we listen to every day on some media or on some television, it must still be a contract signed somewhere. No, nothing's signed, because the way we do is transparent and transparent. Then, when we are and if we do any of this, the public of Serbia will be aware of what it means to exploit lithium in the first place, what it looks like and what the impact on the environment is, so if the citizens decide to do it, then we will do it again publicly and again transparently. As we listen to citizens every day, it doesn't matter now whether they're just protests or certain televisions, certain shows, certain newspapers that give us all kinds of pictures from some parts of the world and that tell us that this is what Jadar will look like and that's what Serbia, some surreal environmentalists, the surreal experts who explain to us how Jadar will disappear, how Drina will be destroyed, so that water, or bad water, unquality water, polluted water will get to Belgrade, so Belgrade won't have water, etc. These are all some apocalyptic stories that we listen to every day. But that's where people live and listen to it, that's not true. Everyone in Serbia today who goes public and tells these things lies because no one knows what the impact on the environment will look like today because studies on environmental impact assessment of the potential exploitation of lithium in the Adriatic territory are not finished. So everything else is a hope story, everything else is a theory. So whatever you hear, that Jadar will disappear, that everyone will disappear from the Adriatic, that we as a state will not exist are a lie. When the studies are over, then we'll all watch them and we'll all talk about them, so when the studies are over, and when people know exactly how it affects their orchard, their water, their house, their future generations, then we'll make decisions. Therefore, you believe in your country and your government, it is a message to the citizens. So, when the studies are completed, information will be available to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10875	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Angelka Atanaskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10876	Thank you. I only wanted to answer Mr. Glisic's question about the start of his investment and economy, as I am currently in the economy, and I have spent my whole life in the economy and I remember the times well that were when the previous government led this country. So I can say that the factories that were destroyed at the time were all closed. For example, our factory received instead of a plate of eggs, or oranges, or dried meat products, and not to list such nonsense. So there was no pay, and there was no work. Most of them were all as closed as they are today. The fact that someone doesn't like a stranger coming, unfortunately, we'll have to, and investors have to come because our industries have been destroyed. Our industries were not then assisted by the ministry, from the state, as is now being done by the government of Alexander Vukic. Every business activity is supported by the Ministry of Economy through various types of projects and from all ministries, not only the Ministry of Economy. So, sir, we're going to have to take strangers, hire our people, let our people live, that they can educate children and continue to live and that this country can live. What anyone doesn't like, we're sorry, but I'm glad we have this GDP today, that we have this situation in the world where everyone and every ambassador who's come to me has always been commendable. So, we'll still work with investors from abroad and open factories every day if we have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10877	Thank you. Mr. Glissic, would you like to make a comment? (Vladan Glisic: Yes. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10878	It is a comment. Obviously, we have different concepts and that's normal. You're the government, I'm the opposition, but when an opposition MP and opposition sometimes uses some too strong expressions and too strong images, and since I don't really want to be a demagogue, and I use it in public often as an argument when I'm talking about a situation with a weak state and strong foreign corporations, I'd like you to really answer how many mining inspectors we have? Is it true that we only have five functional companies and over 300 mining companies work in Serbia? It would be good for him to hear the public, and for me to know that I'm not using the wrong information, if it's wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10879	Okay. In order to hear these answers, we must first hear the MP Samir Tandir who is next reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10880	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected Prime Minister, respected Deputy Prime Minister, respected Minister and Minister, my first question was addressed to the Prime Minister. First, I congratulate the adopted budget, which we, as the Justice and Reconciliation Party, supported by the strongest Bosniak party in the Republic of Serbia. Last time you weren't here, there was also a calendar anniversary of the government and that question that I wanted to ask you back then, I'm going to ask you now. So we have a year and a little bit more than the constitution of your government. What is it that you are, by which results are you most pleased and is there anything we may have missed, that you as a government have missed? Is there anything you regret? Why am I asking this question? I think that the government, and we as MPs who voted for your government, are not enough to represent the results of this government's work. You mentioned a good example - the Ibar highway and the highway. Auto-open once and then citizens and citizens, who are always right, you know, that's understood, and the bypasses and the dump resolution, and no one ever mentions that it's a problem that lasted 60 years. I simply think about the results, and my party and I, we MPs who voted for your government really want to hear and present these results and simply be proud of these results. The second question I want to ask you as Prime Minister is the pandemic situation with the Kovid 19 virus. So, what's the situation, what are the projections? Can we expect any new measures, will there be a fall? This, among other things, I want not only because of our citizens, but also because of our diaspora. So we get into the days when the holidays are closer. Very likely a large number of our diaspora will come. I come from the end of our land of Sandzak and my people have a really big diaspora. People will come as a result of New Year's holidays, as a result of Christmas holidays, which perform a little earlier in Europe. Can we expect new measures there? Also, I will refer to Minister of Mining and Energy Zorana Mihajlovic – how long did it take to replace the high voltage and low voltage network in the area of the Sanjay municipalities? You were almost in Priboy. What I have as a date, by September 1st 2022, is to be released to Novi Pazar and Tutin. We have a problem with land expropriation. I want citizens in Novi Pazar and Tutin to hear what the problems are and when the pipeline will start to build towards Prijepolje, Priboj and Novi Varosha. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10881	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10882	Thank you. As far as the government's greatest successes and the things I'm proudest of and as Prime Minister for the first year, I have to go with Kovid. Unfortunately, the pandemic of the coronary virus continued. We also said in the exposé that it would be one of the government's top priorities, to successfully fight the pandemic, to preserve the health and lives of citizens and to try, as far as we can, to protect our health system. What we have managed, to remind myself, during the first year of government work, is that the first in continental Europe to obtain vaccines against the coronary virus, and that is even four different types of vaccines at that time. Today we already have five, because in the meantime we have "Modern" but it does not enter these first year of government work, and to make one system in which you really are very easy, quite effectively you can apply for the vaccine, to vaccinate yourself in any city or municipality in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia with any vaccine you want and then remind you that the time has come for the relaccination, to remind you that the time has come and the time has come for a third or buster dose, so that's something that seems to be one of the most important things. Also, we promised to do everything, and we opened up additionally, in accordance with that promise, even three completely new hospitals with over 2,000 beds for people who had Kovid. Three hospitals, one in Belgrade, in Batajnica, one in Kruševec, one in Novi Sad, and when Kovid passes, hospitals will serve within our healthcare system to provide additional healthcare and care to all our citizens. In particular, it seems important to me that this is important in Novi Sad, because it will actually be something that Novi Sad had long dreamed of and long expected justifiable, and this is the General Hospital for Novi Sad which the city did not have, but only had a Clinical Center, but it is as if you say there is no General Hospital or any other hospital in Belgrade except the Clinical Centre which is the Clinical Center of Serbia. That's right for the Novi Sad Clinical Center of Vojvodina. Also, economic results. As part of the covid, we have launched the production of two vaccines in the Republic of Serbia and the Russian vaccine Sputnik and the Chinese vaccine “Sinofarm”. Also, something that in every sense will mean much more security, I would say even national security because such threats, such as this pandemic, will be something that is likely to be repeated in decades ahead, so that we will have new resources that as a country, we will be able to defend ourselves much better in the future and much more ready to welcome any similar situation. Economic results, as all our citizens know, have some of the best economic results in Europe and in such difficult circumstances in 2020, an economic downturn of only 0.9% and this year a much faster growth and a more dynamic recovery than we anticipated and expected, and we will have a growth of over 7%. We've opened 60,000 jobs in the last 12 months. These are all the things that are rightly proud of this government of the Republic of Serbia and the continued growth of wages and pensions, including a minimumer that, despite last year's economic downturn and pandemics, has still increased 6.6% and this year an additional 9.4% and about 500 euros in total, one-time assistance to all our pensioners. These are all the things we managed to pull together. After all, thanks to the three economic packages of support measures for the economy and citizens, we invested over eight billion euros in our economy and economy, which has shown extraordinary toughness and resilience, so it seems to me that all of us and all of our citizens should be proud of what we have achieved. I have some good news for you and for Tutin. Again, I know that you too, the late Ambassador Muamer Zukorlic, have talked about it all the time, and you've been asking about it. We are today, so I remembered that, because today we had a regular session of the government at 13.00 hours, and we adopted a proposal from the Ministry of Economy to measure incentives for one investment by the ESB "Pellets" for Tutin. Encourage 50 new jobs, so here's one good news for Tutin too. As for the current situation and new measures, the situation, as you can see, is much better than it was, is being repaired continuously. Whether this will continue depends on many factors. It depends not on it if, but when, that Delta plus the variant will arrive in Serbia. We see it's everywhere, after all, in the environment. We also see in all the countries of the environment, Croatia, Hungary, BiH, Austria, the worst numbers since the start of the pandemic in terms of the newly infected, so we will see how it will be in Serbia. Once again I pray and appeal to anyone who has not been vaccinated, it depends on us very much. But it's a better situation, I hope it continues that way. At this point, we have almost three million 100,000 people vaccinated with the first dose. So exactly 3.094,514 people who are 57.3% of the adult population, so the adult population. If you're looking at a 12-year-old population, we're about 50%, 49.7%. The revaccinated 55% of the adult population and the third dose received 26.6% of the adult population or 1,437,253 people. What concerns, of course, the inoculation of young people. We keep talking about this, between 18 and 30 years of age in that population, or in the 18-30 age group, we only have 28.1% of vaccines, and in the 12-17-year-old population only 3.27%. We are the best in the central city municipality of Belgrade, Stari Grad, where we already have 83.6% of the vaccinated, Sava Venac with 82%. Then the third, no longer Vrachar, but Presevo, so Presevo with 77.7% vaccines, then Vrachar goes, then New Belgrade. In total, we have five local self-governments that are above 70%. So, really, people need to be much, much better to be safe. As far as new measures are concerned, I held yesterday's consultations with the Medical Department of Crisis. They are still for the introduction of a 24 hour pass code in Serbia in all closed facilities, so we talked about it. We were also talking about the possibility of introducing a ski pass pin on ski slopes and ski dogs, which was also a recommendation for the medical work of the Crisis Headquarters. Now I'm telling you completely open, completely transparent, what the doctors were looking for, and that the break starts from 20 December and lasts until 10 January. We're still talking about it, we're thinking about these things. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to hold a crisis staff session this week, but we have permanent consultations, as you can see. So we're going to have a crisis staff session soon, but these are the topics we're talking about because that's what the doctors from the CID were looking for. It's something that's on the table right now. I'm not sure if all of this is necessary right now, but it'll all depend on how we get numbers in the next few days. But, clearly and transparently, that's what doctors are looking for. Of course, I will continue to consult them as well as ministers, and above all Minister Loncar. We'll also see what's going on in the hospitals. At this point, we have every day more laid off from the hospital than hospitalized. So, slowly reduces that pressure on hospitals. But I understand doctors want prevention because of that Delta plus soy do something to keep us as safe as possible, especially because we're entering these winter months that are both the worst and the most problematic compared to this pandemic. So we'll see in the next few days, but so far it's getting better and it's positive news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10883	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10884	As far as the pipeline is concerned, it is absolutely safe for the works to begin at the end of February. A little over a month ago, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a report on the project. So, the papers will start in February. The plan should be completed in a year and two months and believes there will be no deviations, given how significant this pipeline is. When we talk about a high-voltage, general distribution network and high-voltage distribution in that part of Serbia, I have to admit that big money has been allocated in the budget this year and "Electro Networks of Serbia", but also a new company, Serbia's distribution company. It must take us several years to make, in certain parts of Serbia, conditions for real energy security when we talk about power supply. This is what people who live in certain parts of Serbia know very well, especially when winter comes or early spring comes, then we always have problems with the outbursts. In any case, the money is secured, the projects are done, so for the next year or two, I believe we won't talk at all about whether everything is ready in the distribution network. As far as mining is concerned, I must refer to the question of the previous MP. I mean, first of all, we need to be aware that Serbia is also a mining state and that today we are in this world of huge global change, fighting climate change, we need to be aware that Serbia is among other things a country rich in critical minerals. So these are the minerals that will be needed or are necessary for the implementation of the green transition, i.e. the green agenda. It's not just lithium, lithium is just one of them, but it's copper, it's gold, it's antimony. There is all this in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and not in small quantities. Serbia is a country that recently opened the "Peki Chukaru" mine in Bor, which will certainly make Serbia second in Europe, not only for copper production, but for gold production and only for the exploitation of the lower bed, so the lower zone of the mine. It's also moving to explore the upper area of the mine and we believe we'll be the first in Europe. I mean, so we shouldn't be ashamed of what we have in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and think mining is something that's not good. It is good if it is implemented according to all principles and standards of environmental and energy. As for control and mining inspectors, there are enough of them at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, which shows that 230 inspection findings were made in this year only in the area of mining, that some 160 inspections were made last year, that if we were to keep an eye on it at the end of this year, it was 30% more than some previous years. So don't worry about control. What's important is to be aware that it's not scary when research is being done in mining, that these research can take years, that through these research we first know what we have in our territory. We need to know that in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the value of proven mineral resources, hence proven mineral reserves, is 250 billion euros. So that's what we have underground. Whether, in what way, we will be able to help our economic development depends primarily on ourselves, or on respecting all European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10885	Thank you. Mr. Tandir, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10886	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. It is indeed one happy news for all the citizens and citizens of our country, in Sandzak, and especially in Tutin. Rahmtli academics Zukorlic really had a dream of bringing in one big, minimum investment in every Sanjay city. I'm really glad we're going with Tutin and this subsidy and 50 new jobs, it's going to mean a lot to them, to all citizens and citizens in Tutin. However, I want everyone to know that 98% of citizens and citizens are Bosniak nationalities in Tutin, and local self-government did not find it appropriate that the day Zukorlic passed away, moved to Ahiret, declared a day of mourning. So what's behind it, that's what it says about them, and what's behind us is our doings. That's what generations will remember after us. Thank you and the Minister for your reply. What is my next question is the Prime Minister, but also the Minister of Demography, Mr. Dimitrovic. We debated here last time, about demographics. We pointed out how big a problem this is, especially for a part of the country where I come from. What has certainly made all of us happy is the announcement by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, about the set of measures in terms of demographics and about stopping this negative trend. What I would ask you is some dynamics of implementing measures, and what do we who live in these edged municipalities or people living inside can expect from these announced measures, and when can we expect your ministry to start implementing them? My next question is for the minister without portfolio, Minister Tonchev. So the budget's been adopted. What is your ministry's main goal next year? Your two ministries are very important to a part of the state, where I come from, and we really expect a lot from you. I would like to commend your ministry's initiative when it comes to the "Ethno Food" fair, which is now being held. We have a large number of fairs. However, the lease of booths and space and marketing costs a lot. What's a good thing your ministry is doing, is it's totally free of charge for devastated municipalities like the Prepolje municipality and all the Sanjak municipalities. It means a lot, and food is a resource that we really trust and something we have to offer and what it can do with economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10887	Thank you. The word has a Minister Tonchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10888	Dear Prime Minister, honourable fellow ministers, chairman of the Assembly, dear MPs, thank you for this question and I can tell you that in your area, the government of Serbia, through my ministry, which it has formed, and you can see for yourself that the formation of such a ministry, that the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic and our complete government, is making sure that even the devastated municipalities, or our poor neighborhoods, will speed up to the arrival of these developed municipalities and cities, not to say, such as Belgrade. Here you are, downstairs, Raška got seven million, built one lift in the home of health, Sjenica got a six-million-dollar Shadow House adaptation and 900 dinars, Tutin got a seven-million-dollar working machine, a six-million-dollar, 900-dollar sewerage, and Nova Varosh got a new 6.5-million-dollar X-ray machine, and Preboy made sidewalks for seven million dinars. We, as a ministry, are responsible, and we also have put up tenders, i.e. we have given money for project documentation. So Nova Varoš received a million and 700 thousand dinars for the project of market editing, Sjenica - a plan of general regulation of a million and a half dinars, Prijepolje – reconstruction of the streets of two million dinars. In 2022, the budget was increased. I'm not very happy. I spoke to the finance minister and we got about 40 million more money than last year, which is what you saw when the municipal budget was adopted. We will discuss the competition in January as well as the development of documentation projects. This year, all 44 municipalities received almost equal money from this ministry and we expect to continue to develop these underdeveloped municipalities. As far as the fair is concerned, we have paid stands, total costs all so that farmers, i.e. producers and food and brandy and drinks can exhibit their products, i.e. Serbia and Belgrade can see what is being produced in these rural areas. You know what, we have to look after these young people, we have to protect those environments because life has to live in Serbia and out of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10889	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10890	I wanted to talk about the measure of population policy, but Ratko will talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10891	Minister Dmitrović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10892	Mr. Tandir, you are one of the people who shows great interest otherwise in the sphere of demographics, which is very good and thank you for that and I have talked to you, and now I am also using the opportunity to tell you and the family of the deceased of ours, I can tell a friend who is no longer with us, and who has often talked to me on the subject, also showing great interest, Muamer Zukorlic. It's about him. The measures you mentioned and which President Vukic made public two days ago are in fact a hint of a package that should be adopted relatively quickly. So, to bring it together, there are still a few important measures very, in the course of December, and it has been starting since early January, no later than January. Of course, it's about the measures that apply to everything. There are no exceptions. They also relate to the end from which you come and in these tours and my personal and my associates, who have already crossed a hundred municipalities, we have been to you and recorded the situation, we have seen what the characteristics are, what can be specifically helped further, which is a specific feature of this space. We're going to do something very quickly, but these measures, I repeat, are very stimulating and in the locale too, and it has nothing to do with these measures – people are doing something and they are aware of the huge problem we face both as a state and as a people and as all the citizens who live here. I hope we can talk about this again as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10893	Thank you. Mr. Tandir, would you like two minutes to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10894	Thank you to the honourable ministers for their answers. Your two ministries are very important. The media may not be enough attention, but with the Ministry of the Village for all underdeveloped municipalities, we really hope that we can move these things in the right direction and that the citizens and the citizens all feel one improvement. I want to thank the Prime Minister and the people of her cabinet who are truly committed to work and work day and night to make all citizens and citizens feel this country as their home. Rahmtli Academyman Muamer Zukorlic has been pursuing a policy of reconciliation. We MPs and officials, members, supporters of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, will continue to be permanent in the coming period. What I'm saying is that he was an uncompromising anti-crime fighter, corruption, drug gangs, and the defense of extremism. I'm sorry the minister of police isn't here today. It's something we need to open up as a topic. We can't let any space in this country, and I'm not of course most interested in where I come from, to see the loss of one such man as a chance to destabilize a certain part of this country and to make political profit in any way. In the next period, I expect that we should start the talks in this direction, especially when it comes to the security situation in the Sjenica, both in Novi Pazar and in Prijepolje, to provide the best possible security for all our citizens, and when we have security, we will also have investments and new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10895	Thank you. The next reported is MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10896	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Ministers, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, spoke earlier about what problems we face when we talk about education in the time of the pandemic and spoke about school vacation, certainly the central theme of these days and justified by the country's health situation. However, I have to express one concern by the parents who are coming, which concerns the subject of education, i.e. the enrollment of students who are in the eighth grade of primary school and the fourth grade of high school, i.e. in high school. We've been witnessing that since the pandemic outbreak, students have gone to some extraordinary teaching regime. I'll remind you how it all flowed. So, since March 2020, students have attended classes by the end of the school year online, and then throughout last year 2020/2021. the years went combined. So one day they went to school, and the other day online, or they spent 15 days at school, 15 days online. You know what it's like in the heads of a student, they're kind of insecure and the day they don't go to school they don't take it seriously. This year they're going after a regime that I think is quite suitable for these opportunities, but it's still not in those extraordinary circumstances that we're used to. So the question arises how many students have adopted from that plan and the program that was originally intended for them? So it's been two and a half years, one serious period. On the other hand, I hear from my parents that they're worried about how students are going to enroll in high schools and colleges, and that there's a fair way to do that. First of all, because of the level of knowledge that was adopted in this way and secondly because of the criteria. I'll remind you, I think the measures that the government introduced at the time were excellent and the Ministry of Education really did well, in such a difficult situation, implemented an online teaching programme, but the fact is that this level of knowledge is not what it was planned for. The teachers themselves had problems during online classes when grading students. It couldn't have been as adequate an evaluation as it would have been. So, are we now considering a different model that would have been modified according to the plan and the curriculum in the previous two and a half years? I think it's time for us to think already in November, December, about modifying the way we enroll in high school and colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10897	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10898	Thank you. You've quite well identified the problem, I think, and the problem of the parents. So, I said, I think Minister Ruzic talked about it too, we seem to have conducted online teaching in the best way possible. We were myself thinking the only country that did not lose a single day of teaching in 2020, because since 2018 we have started introducing digital classrooms, digital and teaching content, etc. So we were more prepared than many other countries. We did it, of course, for some other initiatives, for some other reasons. We did it to modernise our education, to make education more interesting and more receptive, to make it easier for teachers, teachers about teachers, etc. It's one way to digitise education that we started in 2017, but it helped us a lot during the pandemic. However, this teaching cannot be compared to physical schooling and teaching. That's why we, too, are always trying to find a balance between what is, of course, the best of anti- epidemic measures to protect the lives of citizens' health and, again, the health system and our medical workers, to how generations that are currently at school don't lose too much. It's always tough decisions. One of the reasons why we're talking right now is whether or not we should go on a vacation on December 20th. That's one reason. The second reason is that in a large number of schools the evaluation has not been completed, and then both students and teachers will have a problem. The third reason for being careful and thinking about whether to do as doctors have recommended is that we also don't know what the epidemic situation is going to be during January, February or March, so maybe we should keep that time as a reserve that if the numbers start growing again then we have time, and yet that the more kids go to school. So it's all difficult decisions and it's a big responsibility on us. Anyway, the Ministry of Education will watch with both unions and parents what's best to do. I guarantee you that we will find the best possible solution for both admission exams and enrollment, given everything that has been going on since March 2020. I don't think there's any reason to worry, but we are concerned because there are generations of children who have been practically since March 2020, or in April 2021, there will be two years that they don't go to school normally. A year, I'm sorry. So, on March 6th, we had our first case, in April, if I'm not mistaken, we switched to online teaching. So April 2021 is a year. Practically, two academics, two school years that are completely extraordinary. So we'll keep that in mind and we'll find the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10899	The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10900	Thank you. Second question addressed to the Prime Minister. I'll remind you, in June of this year you were in the King, in my city, at a really nice event, when you shared the keys to the apartments that were built for security forces. I remember, you were there, and when the foundation stone was laid, two years before that. Indeed, you could see how changed the city's picture was, of course for the better, in a positive sense, how this part of the city was built thanks to this project. I think it's an excellent project. It was seen that the city had successfully done its part of the job, that the Republic had done its part of the work properly. In that one combination we got part of the completed project and 200 apartments are already finished, they got the first tenants. Another 700 apartments are expected to be completed in the next period. But it's not the only city where this kind of apartment is built. We first passed a law on the part of the government, since now Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, these apartments for security forces. Later, we had an amendment and an addition to the law, so that these apartments could be competed with by members of the families of fallen fighters and wartime military invalids. My question concerns whether we have plans in the future to expand the category of those who will be able to compete for these apartments, especially medical workers, doctors, nurses and educational workers? I think the doctors are really in this situation when they've faced great problems during the pandemic and how they deserve to be given one chance, both them and the educators, that they can do this one good, extremely favourable way, on the financial side, to solve their housing issue. In a conversation with local self-government representatives, I also learned that when apartments are built that are expected to have more space and that there will be places left for other categories to apply to this type of apartment. Of course, we should consider applying a solution like this in the future, when we have already entered a project like this, both for young couples and scientists. So my question is can we expect in the future to expand the project to other services that work in the public sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10901	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10902	A quick and simple answer – yes. As promised, we will work to expand this to young couples, to expand to health care workers, and to think eventually about both educators. That's what we're working on right now, to define the exact categories and how to do it in the best possible way. I'm glad we finished our apartments for the members of the Security Service in the King's first phase. Not all apartments are still being sold so that we are planning a new call soon with some changed criteria so that not only is there application, interest and quick fingers, but also in accordance with what President Aleksandar Vukic has resented and said that it is a little more sophisticated and that special attention should be paid to young people, of course, who have yet to create families, so they need those apartments and that we want to keep in service, that we still have clearer criteria for people with years of training in security services. So at this point, the commission is making me these new criteria, and I believe that in the next few weeks, we're going to announce a new call with new criteria for security housing. We're also working on expanding categories. I also want to say that when I resented the mayor when we were in the King, that I am glad that we ended the first phase of the apartments for families hit by an earthquake on Dosite Street and now we're moving into phase two and we learned, hopefully, from the mistakes that we made then, those delays we had, so the second, third and fourth phases, there are four phases in total, going much faster. So I hope and expect to visit the King again soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10903	The word is Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10904	Thank you. I hope you will soon come to the King's likeness. When you're talking about these buildings that were damaged in the earthquake now, we're solving one question that hasn't been solved for years, which means a lot to people who have lost their roof over their heads, and I think we'll be done soon. A quarter of the project is completed, one building, I think the other three will be completed soon and people will be able to move in. Also, the government’s predominant attitude to young people is commendable. When you spoke about education earlier, we must also think about health and our educators and children, but of course also adopt a certain level of knowledge. Especially to praise this responsible relationship when we talk about all categories employed in the public sector and in health care, and education, above all about young people, and this is one responsible policy. We saw yesterday according to the measures announced that they would be brought, concerning population policy, and I think that in a few years we will all be able to be satisfied with such measures together and that we will have concrete results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10905	The word is Dr. Emesha Uri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10906	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, respected ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, respected vice president, respected fellow MPs, I would first welcome this new programme of demographic measures brought by the Serbian government. I am pleased to recognize some of our suggestions from the Union of Duchy Hungarians to go in the direction, to recognize the needs of young people, young mothers and future mothers and absolutely get more financial help for the first child than it was before. Benefit of young parents, students, and there is an opportunity that can really improve the birth rate and absolutely help in buying the first apartment for young parents is something that may be of the utmost importance. My question would refer to further steps, whether it is possible to think about some benefits primarily for employers, if they will hire future young mothers, or young women, regardless of whether they are college-educated or even with primary school, because right now we have a situation where many employers see themselves as soon as they see a female person competing for a job have a future fear that she will go to pregnancy very quickly. In our view, perhaps we should think primarily of the aspect of employers who could benefit from the employment of young women, future mothers. Secondly, we have already had some suggestions on improving the organized diet of children by schools that also relieves parents' fears of how they will be organised around daily activities regarding the child. Then, it is also a significant organized diet in factories, in large institutions where more women young mothers work, which could also thus satisfy their needs. In our view, it is very important to organise additional classes at schools, free of charge if possible and extended stay where teachers, teachers, could master all homework with children and mothers would not have to do it additionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10907	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10908	Thank you for asking, it is without further ado, I think at this point absolutely the most important subject and absolute priority. I'm glad President Aleksandar Vukic spoke little yesterday about new measures to support population policy. After all, he is like the President of the Republic, someone who constantly insists that the Government is working more on it, thinking about it, seeing what else is possible in terms of the law and what laws should be amended, as we did then amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act to families with children and saying that these are not final changes, but that it is always something that will be constantly worked on to correct things when we see that in practice they can function better or not function well enough. We stick to it. We're really going to continue to change the Financial Support Act for families with children, to redefine some things. Also, the president looks at the overall budget and finance of what it is that we as a government can do to give more support. So, to repeat what the president said, as we have already agreed, it is that by January 1st for the first child instead of 100,000 dinars we will immediately pay 300,000 dinars from the state. So far, we haven't changed the help we introduced for the second, third and fourth children. She stayed at that level we had, which is for the second child of 10,000 per month for two years, for the third child of 12,000 dinars a month for ten years and for the fourth child 10 years at 18,000 dinars per month. We're looking at what we can do. So it's just about calculating the financial effects and understanding what it is that we can do without any problem because these are obligations that citizens understand, which we are long-term taking over and we need to ensure that we can do without any problems to pay. So we're working on it right now, and we can expect some more changes. As you said, therefore, in order to encourage and motivate young people to create families because it is again one of the problems that we have, not only we, which have other European countries, the United States, more advanced countries, I would say, generally have this problem, which is that in the older years you have a child, so 30 plus, so you're practically losing one generation. So, as special support measures for young people to have children, it's that if women get pregnant during studies that the test deadlines are not valid, also, of course, for future fathers, if they're students. That we have deadlines for all colleges that have to finish up to 26 years of life, medically up to 28 years of life, so that in this sense we make it easier for them, and to see that it is not only something that is acceptable in our society, but it is welcome in our society and something that is still extremely important for our country. Also, a new measure of assistance in self-determining, i.e. buying apartments where the state will give between 10,000 and 20,000 euros practically on a gift, with the goal of motivating young people to get out of parents' homes and start their own lives, and in that case the right of property on that apartment goes to the mother. What we are further thinking about is, as I said, additional changes and additions to the Financial Support Act to families with children, and that we will better define the status of mother entrepreneurs, because this remains insufficiently well-defined and I think we all agree in the government that we should further assist the mothers of entrepreneurs and support them because we want to strengthen and strengthen and encourage the entrepreneurial culture in the Republic of Serbia, and that in this law, as we currently have it, we have not done it in the best possible way, so that is what we are doing and what we are thinking, with a large number of organisations dealing with these issues, which I would like to thank at this time, because they give us really concrete professional assistance and support. We've also had as many talks as Minister Lonchar and I last week. I also discussed this with President Vukic to further improve our laws if it is necessary to pass new laws concerning medically assisted insemination, so that, practically, women from Serbia who currently have to go abroad can do so in Serbia. So we have women leaving here, going to Skopje, going to Thessaloniki, going to Istanbul, to Prague, they have to have opportunities to do it in their own country. So we're Minister Loncar and I agreed yesterday to form a task force that will end as soon as possible. I'd also like you to deliver your suggestions. This is a good idea for employers, to provide us with your suggestions to take into account, because it really concerns all of us, and it's best that we all work together on it, so somehow every day and continuously, we're promoting the whole area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10909	The word has Minister Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10910	Let me just add a few sentences. So, what you mentioned, it turns out to be a very big problem with young women, when they first meet the employer and when they don't know how to be honest in that interview, so they say they'd want a family, that they'd want kids, their ability to get a job is very small or when you don't talk, and they tell him that they're in a different state, there starts a very difficult period for them. Now, this measure that we have proposed and that will certainly take effect so that we can study and take, whoever wants it, can have two children, and then comes before it again, to be figurative, in front of that employer, and to him we have some idea of how to prevent it, and we'll see in the next month, and then it's a different story, then someone is 26 years old, 27 and has a motherhood, take one or two children, and it's a different path and possibilities and everything that comes before that woman. So we went there as far as possible to give these opportunities. Thank you for your interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10911	Minister Mihajlovic please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10912	As far as employers are concerned, we recently passed the Law on Gender Equality. For a long time, it has been discussed, in fact, that we have adopted a modern law on gender equality, and within that law, there is one whole section just that it is forbidden, therefore, in accordance with the Law on Gender Equality, that the employer asks you any question regarding your status or potential questions whether you are or not, whether you want to have a family or not. I say – punishable, that means there will be inspections, that it can be reported, that such employers will certainly bear sanctions. So we settled it through the law. Now in the next year, or two days when inspections are formed, it will begin in part to happen, but we simply need to know that it is no longer allowed. You are not allowed to be asked for an image, you are not allowed to be asked whether or not you have children, you are not allowed to be asked if you want to have them, you are not allowed to be asked a single question about your private life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10913	Thank you. Next question, Dr. Emeshe Uri.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10914	Thank you for your comprehensive response and for your good guidance. I think there is an interactive co-operation between us MPs with asked questions and suggestions and ministries. Another question I would like to ask Minister Lonchar about the large number of healthcare workers who have the lowest coefficients, and with that, the lowest earnings. I would pull the parallel if it didn't matter, especially with today's experience after the pandemic and in the middle of the pandemic, it doesn't matter if one driver drives, no offense, no cement, no potatoes, no cabbage, no living man whose life is in danger, hard to move, where he needs to help and get that patient into the vehicle and get out of the vehicle as far as the driver is concerned. Also, hygienics, maids, cooks who provide food to severely ill patients who are most often in first contact with infectious patients also receive practically the same income, i.e. the same coefficient, the lowest coefficients, because they also have the lowest school equipment as maids in some public institutions offices. Is there any thought of these coefficients being corrected somewhere? Is it possible to make contact with patients as one factor that increases their profits? As for the drivers themselves in emergency care, or emergency medical services, I think we all now have a lot of experience with emergency interventions of these very services, and we know that drivers in these services are almost equally involved in providing emergency medical attention, and they are not recognized by these coefficients to provide that help. I believe that this takes time to create a new scale of these coefficients, but it would be worth thinking about, because health is practically today, in today's world, the fundamental right of every man and without quality services in the healthcare system no one will have the feeling that this need is respected. We all have experience now or personal experience, or one of our closest ones has been in contact with health care institutions, notice if they're clean, whether they're being well maintained, what kind of people help us get to these health institutions, what kind of drivers they are, what kind of food they are. So somewhere, that material income of theirs may well be motivated to be a better health care service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10915	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10916	As for the driver, you're absolutely right, I don't want to underestimate anyone or anything. An extremely difficult and responsible job, especially an ambulance driver carrying sick and injured patients. What we're doing right now, we're doing one draft to regulate it and make these drivers one special category, to insult only what they deserve and what they do. In the meantime, we are trying in all ways with the administrations of these institutions that work to get certain stimulations, all that is possible under the current law and regulations to get and make up for what they're doing. I believe that finally most of the citizens, unfortunately, had the opportunity to get acquainted with all of this and that, apart from this crown that was and the more often they were in contact, when they see, when they come to the intervention on any other issue, that drivers are selflessly helping and doing other things that other drivers in other categories don't do. We're working on it being evaluated. As far as the janitors' workers are concerned, we've seen that this is a serious problem. For what reason? Simply, health institutions come into a situation where they have sufficient number of janitors by systematization, but these janitors, after a certain time when they get a job for permanent sickness, go to expertise and get expertise so they can't do that job anymore. Then you have to find a solution for them, to do something else, that it isn't, and you're limited, on the other hand, by systematicization to hire, because it comes out to you to have a sufficient number. Then you're going round and round, and the most suffering is the health care facility, or patients, because they don't care how you find all this to work. Of course, if they're the reason you pay, if they're hard work, if they're all that. What we've concluded, we're already on our way, and we're going to have to go more and more, go austorsing. It just turned out to be the best solution. They are already opening up, and I hope that more specialized companies, companies, or whatever they call themselves, will be open, which will only be dealt with, which will have these licences that they can work in health institutions, hospitals, clinical centres, health homes, and that they will meet the conditions to maintain hygiene and all that is necessary in that. Then we won't have that problem anymore, because they'll have to regulate it themselves, then you won't come to work one day and tell you – here, 10, 15 maids didn't come today, they're sick and stuff, or they get expertise, so they can't work. You can't find that on the market today, come and hire. That's not real, that's what citizens need to know. We're on our way, I say. That's what happened in Batajnica, that's what happened in Kruševec, and I think he's doing it now in Novi Sad. There's still a lot of hospitals out there that use it. We don't have any problems right now. They work out of cleaning, laundry, somewhere to store food, so all the things that are necessary. Simply, you make a contract, they have tasks and conditions that must be fulfilled, which quality of cleaning must be, which is how the medical facility is done. For food they get exactly how much calories and what to do, what quality laundry, because it's laundry that literally washes every few hours. That's how long it takes you both a sheet and pajamas and everything else in the hospital. So that's where we're going, and that's the solution for now. As far as the driver is concerned, we'll make it right, because I really think everyone's convinced it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10917	The word is Dr. Emeshe Uri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10918	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Now I would take the chance first to commend our health system again. There was a short period when we seemed to be behind the world, but yet we're still open and there's only one restriction actually is that the hoard of passes that every citizen of ours can get by receiving a vaccine or passing a disease or being tested, and yet we have the possibility of going out, we're not in a lokdown, like much more advanced countries. I would also like to thank the prime minister in front of the SVM for very good, as I just said, interactive co-operation. So, our suggestions are being noticed and if they're good, then they're being built into some decisions somewhere. In practice, I would like to commend all the ministers of all the ministries for their extraordinary co-operation with our group of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10919	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10920	Dear government members, today is November 25th, World Day Against Violence Against Women. I'm glad most of the members of the government are actually ladies. I think we're gonna have good conversation for what I want to say and ask. Simply, there is one big world action – 16 days of activistism in the fight against violence against women. We of Unity Serbia, of course, as I am sure and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, think that this fight against violence against women must last 365 days a year, i.e. should be permanent and permanent. We are witnessing that violence against women is present in our society. We have examples every day, various examples in our press and the media. So I can ask this question to the prime minister, but also to the vice-president of the government, who is also president of the Co-ordination Body for Gender Equality, as well as Minister Kisic, whose responsibility is probably part of her ministry, but also of all ministers present here. Simple, what is the government's plan to fight violence against women? We are witnessing that we have examples and people who plead to be leaders of a part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are representing themselves as leaders of certain political options, a group, who are also witnessed by violence against women, for whom there is an official note at the police station in Vrakar that he beat his wife, that he also beat her father in front of children. It's about Dragan Gilas. This is not new, but we believe that this matrix of behavior by someone who pleads to be a public figure, who pleads to be important and influential in our society, really provides a bad example and needs to be constantly highlighted and repeated everywhere and in every place, and that it is also a kind of fight against violence against women. Of course, my question is what I asked you on earlier occasions. What did the system institutions do with that case? Where did the investigation of violence against the wife committed by Dragan Gilas, leader of the Freedom and Justice Party, if that's what his party is called, and where does he care about the case and why the system institutions don't solve it? We in Unity Serbia really believe that violence against women is a crime that does not go out of date. Dragan Gilas could make a deal with his wife, we really understand that woman, a single mother, but simply institutions can't settle with anyone when it comes to a crime, and this is a criminal act for which there are witnesses, for which there is an official note and for which there is all possible evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10921	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10922	Thank you for saying that today is International Day to Fight Violence Against Women and Girls. I agree with you and we all agree in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I believe the vast majority here, or all MPs and MPs, that every day we should fight violence against women and girls. I think the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we've brought it out several times, zero tolerance to violence, zero tolerance to violence against women, zero tolerance to violence against girls. The normative and legislative state of Serbia has brought everything it needs from laws, sublegal acts, all strategies of action plans. What's very important is the police and social institutions and the Ministry of Justice are very well connected, and that's very important when we're talking about fighting violence against women and girls at all. But since you've warned us from the beginning, that mostly here, of course, the Prime Minister and Minister, it's all nice, but in order to really fight violence against women and girls, it takes men and women to fight it, they can't just do it, and if there's a chance that we can still work on our laws, we'll do it. We're also thinking if there's a chance that we can still complete our laws, we'll do it. We are also considering that several laws, from Criminal Law to Family Law, are further changed in the work of early marriages. We believe that early marriages, and there are many, not only in the Roma population, they grow in the general population, so girls who enter marriage 15 years ago, and 18 years ago, are a kind of human trafficking. So these are some things that are ahead of us that are going to change. And to truly fight violence against women and girls, then we have to do it from little feet, then it's done from family, kindergarten, schools. These 16 days of activists starting today in the whole world, not only in Serbia, we fight in December 16 days, or we try to explain how important this is to the whole world, it has started to happen actively in Serbia since 2014. Since that year, we mark every year 16 days of activistism. As far as the case is concerned, it is certain that the institutions of the system should do their job. I don't know exactly where it's stuck, but regardless, I think it's very important that public figures, politicians, are exactly what they are. So they set an example for the entire public, for all citizens and for Serbian citizens as they behave. In view of their behavior towards their loved ones, it doesn't matter if someone is with you now, or if she's your ex-wife, she's talking about how they'll behave in power if we come to power. Public figures are far more responsible than everyone else in one society, especially when we talk about fighting violence against women and girls. Therefore, the invitation, of course, to fight together and to make it possible for all women and girls to live healthier and better in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10923	The People's MP of Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10924	I understand you as representatives of the executive authority, that you do not want to comment on the work of institutions that are independent of the executive authority, but I am giving myself the right to comment. Simply, such cases of violence against women, I don't see the reaction of these protectors of citizens and other independent institutions, who are the most capable of this is to potentify this independence from the executive authority. Why am I saying this? We have recently had one situation that the Commissioner for Information's inspection of public importance went to the inspection control of the winery in which, as a result, the President of the Republic's office works and is employed. In that inspection, later, investigative journalists discovered that one of the members of the inspection was, in fact, a member of one opposition party, and that she was a candidate in the local elections of the same opposition party. Now I ask you, are these independent institutions independent only of the executive authority, from the National Assembly of Serbia, from the state of the Republic of Serbia, and not independent of the opposition and opposition political parties? It is simply strange and symptomatic that independent institutions mix personal and private politicalaffinities with work that work. I ask the question, is it possible for someone who is a political activist and engaged politically to work in these independent institutions and how to fight it? The second question is also commendation, we could hear from the President of the Republic yesterday that a new incentive programme was created to increase natural growth in the Republic of Serbia. We know that this is one of our country's biggest problems and that the state is determined to fight this situation. Also, we had information that somewhere around 53,000 people in the state of Serbia in a year were less than there were in the previous year. The situation naturally calls for a state reaction and looks forward to the fact that, according to the president of the Republic, about 300,000 dinars or over 2,500 euros will be allocated for each first-born child, that young couples will even have some incentive to buy apartments. What's my question is whether, perhaps, you'll be presenting a comprehensive programme for the next few days, but let's say, the state is considering further reliefs for pregnant women and pregnant women and their working-law status when it comes to the birth and stimulation of the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10925	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10926	Thank you. First of all, about this last question, as I said, we are still thinking about what additional incentives we can give. We're open to all suggestions. Whoever has a proposal can send us to the government, because this is a question of all of us and the future of our country again, what incentives we can give, whether these incentives should go directly to families, whether these incentives should go eventually, as the MP mentioned earlier, perhaps to employers if they hire young women. So if you have any suggestions, we're going to be happy to consider them and we're going to look to further separate significant funds on this issue and as an investment in this area because that is our future. It is, after all, something you should be working for, because all the roads you build, and all the railroads you build, and all the schools you build, and all the investments you bring from abroad, and that you encourage domestically here in Serbia, the jobs you open, it's not worth anything, if you don't have a future in terms of people. So this is the most important priority right now, not only the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I also know that the highest priority of the President of the Republic and the biggest concern of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. So we'll keep working on it. As for independent institutions, they are generally independent of the executive government, therefore, independent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but they correspond to the National Assembly, that is, you. They report to the National Assembly, they have to answer the questions of the National Assembly, and they have to give any further explanations to the National Assembly. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and elects people who run these independent institutions. As Prime Minister, I can't interfere, I can hardly comment, but I will repeat what I once said, as far as this issue is concerned. Inspections by the Office of the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Meaning and Protection of Personality Information, which she had control over the winery in which Danilo Vukic, the older son of President Aleksandr Vukic works. You know, if we've come all this way to control shops and wine shops, because they have, I don't know, how much I understand Internet sales, so let's see if and how they process personality data, okay, but then at the same time tell us that we're world champions in that. Say that everything else is well done in the country, that everything is so good and so perfect that now we can go and control the work of the shops, because that's fair. If we have achieved such standards that independent institutions that control personality data go to shops and wineries because they have online sales or I don't know what else, so I can't imagine they have anything but any ordinary Maxi, then it should be made clear and loud that the Republic of Serbia has reached such standards in respect of information, transparency, respect for information of public importance and personality data that we now have only regular surveillance and control over shops. Again, if we haven't reached those standards, then why are we controlling the shops? But independent institutions need such things and such information to provide the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that is, to you. I wouldn't get any further involved in that. Finally, somehow, somehow, and accidentally, an independent attack on Danil Vukic, independent media, independent analysts, independent institutions, citizens who happen to come across and always with some amazing information and data, which eventually turns out to be incorrect and we have never heard – sorry, and we have never heard an explanation before, just instead of that, a new attack. Each of these attacks is an attack on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, each, on the policy he leads, on SNS politics, and finally on all the results we all have together. But when I say all together, I mean together with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because of the support that we as Government have here in the National Assembly of you Members of Parliament, who are directly representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So it's like that and it's the only logic and it won't go away. We will fight against it, not only because we are protecting the president of the Republic of Serbia and the president of our party, but because we are protecting the truth, thus protecting the results, protecting the family, and thus protecting and reminding those red lines in policies that have never been crossed before, while those who are in opposition today have not become opposition. You never knew in Serbia if anyone in power has a brother or a sister, whether they have children and what they're called and what they do. That was the red line. It's never been attacked. Unfortunately, today's opposition, this grouped around Gilas and his associates, I would say in a party by making it easier to explain that they are all employees of his company. So it's not a party, so they're bound by ideology or ideas, they're people all up to one employee in a Multigroup. For everything they say, everything they do gets a month's salary, like someone else does at another company, so he has to do what his job is and what he's paid for, so these people do what they do for a month's salary. And we have to fight it. So I want to say once again, and in that sense, without actually entering into the work of independent institutions, it's not my place to interfere, nor may I, nor can I, nor do I have the authority to allow any such attacks, we will not allow and as much as it takes, we will fight it. If it's every day, it's no problem every day. We must protect the truth. Some red lines must be known. Some political culture must be known and someone must protect that political culture and keep reminding it. Cursing someone's mother, not a political culture, not just any activism, it's not nice, it's not funny, it's not fun. Cursing and threatening someone's children isn't political culture, it's not nice, it's not funny, it's not fun. We'll fight it and we won't stop and we won't give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10927	Mr. Starchevich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10928	Just for a little while. Thank you for your response. This isn't the first time you've abused a position in one of the independent bodies. Remember the previous public defender who left the post for his political campaign. What I can't support from JS, and I'm sure all 250 MPs here, too, is that it becomes one manners of behavior, matrix and practice. I am glad and I am sure that all of us as MPs will fight such a phenomenon, and I am glad to hear that you as government are also resolved to fight and that you will not stand in this way to fight such situations, it is simply not natural to have the energy of individual independent bodies and opposition parties, it is simply not normal, it is not the flow of Europe, it is not the flow of Serbia, it is not a fluid, and we simply have to fight it. I'm glad we're all going to solve these situations together, actually, I'm sure. What is important and what I want to say is that we from the JS, we also really support this program of stimulating birth, that is to say, support the policy that is found, because indeed one of the important items and our programme is the fight against the white plague, as people say, that is, the imbalance between birth and mortality. So any support in this regard and this project to increase our country's natural growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10929	The next question is asked, MP Radovan Aregina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10930	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs, MPs, respected Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, with ministers and ministers, I want to take this opportunity first and say that I am from this summer, simply what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see, and what they very much respect this is the last day of Thursday, when the government answers its MPs to certain questions and that is something that has been accepted among citizens as a serious democratic category, and we need to continue. I especially want to thank you, because by following, you are here at every session, answering everyone and all kinds of questions. So that's something that's positive. I believe that many of us who come from small places then have the opportunity to ask a particular question, which tangs us, and which tangs the citizens, and who should get the answer. My specific question today concerns not only the Kladovo municipality, it refers to many of the municipalities on the Danube coast. I see that there is also a respected minister, or vice-president of the Ministry of Energy Zorana Mihajlovic, so you will understand me. I don't expect a complete answer from you today, just so you know, I just want to put this as one finding that as the Government of the Republic of Serbia that takes care of citizens who care about development, which is also evident on the roads to East Serbia and by everything you do, I think you consider this to be considered because some previous governments have made us one big problem that we have as Kladovo, as the Municipality of Negotin and others. That goes for the next one. The Serbian Parliaments in 1990 passed a regulation that compensated for the damage caused by the slow water caused by the construction of the Gerdap 1 hydropower plant and Djerdap 2, as well as the rise of groundwater levels, swimming and changing the natural water regime, land damage and so on. The special decision of the Assembly then provides for compensation for the use of goods of special interest belonging to municipalities in the area of slowdowns created by the construction of the ‘Gerdap 1’ and ‘Gerdap 2’ hydropower plants. The fee was called the Rent Fund. The rent fee was deducted from the prices of kilowatt hours produced on the generator in all hydropower plants. From these funds, municipalities in the blue area solved problems caused by swimming, land, devastation, road collapse, immersion, and other communal problems. Due to frequent changes in water levels in the accumulation caused by the water potential exploitation regime for the production of hydroelectric energy in power plants, the damage is increasing every year. The majority of Kladovo municipality is affected by the construction of the Đerdap 2 hydropower plant. The newly formed lake ‘Gerdap 2’ then melts certain parts, including the entire villages, or local communities that have gravitated and gravity on the coast of Danube, downriver from the hydropower plant ‘Gerdap 1’. For example, when you're walking in Kladov in the pier or sitting in one of the restaurants, gardens that look at the Danube, you don't actually look at the Danube, you're looking at Gerdupese Lake 2. It is specifically the local community of Novi Sip, Davidovac, Kladovnica, Kladovo, Kostol, Mala Vrbica, Velika Vrbica, Krtovo, Korborvo, Vajuga, Milutinovac, Velesnica, Ljubičevac, Grabovica, Fast Palanka and Tekia, which was relocated by building HE Đerdap I, as well as the Fast Palanka and Vajuga, etc. An unfortunate 2006 Mining Act abolished the rent fund, and that seems to me to be the last member of the Mining Act. The rent we used by an unfortunate name has certainly nothing to do with the Mining Act and the last member, so we believe and we all know that this type of rent is a market category, so I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you, Madam Prime Minister, at the head of the government and all... and I ask Orlic to forgive me for these half-minutes, I will not use those two minutes because it is a unique question, that in the next period, it is not an obligation, to consider the possibilities for Kladova and other municipalities to replace it in some way by the Gerdap I and II Hydropower Plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10931	Thank you, Mr. Aregina. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10932	You said yourself, in the 1990s, the law was passed, and everything you've said so far took some time, but that doesn't mean that people wouldn't get it wrong here, if all that was left and nothing happened on the roads, the problems that existed, that generally happen when we have big hydropower plants in question. So the state has been working and repairing. The cities themselves and local self-government couldn't do it. She worked, first of all, the state and kept doing it. I'm not sure that's how it can just come back, but what I think might be good, if there's any need for additional support from the "Electroprivreda of Serbia" and the Ministry of Mining, please contact the Ministry to see what's left of it if it's not done, and it's problematic in these municipalities or in some of their parts, local communities, and we'll look at it. So it's not a state of mind that nothing's done. It used to be like that. The state took on all those obligations that were essentially connected to the EPS itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10933	Next question, MP Radovan Aregina.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10934	Ms. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, so I didn't say at all that the state didn't do anything, nor did I intend to. The state has done a lot in our area and here I am in the past, you have not come, but I have here in every discussion and mentioned what the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this Assembly headed by the President of the Assembly is doing in lawmaking and all of us here present in solving many problems. I just want to tell you that as long as there are Gjerdap I and Gerdap II, as long as there are accumulation lakes Gjerdap I, Gjerdap II, the problems will be and the problems are constant as long as they exist and there are no choirs. That's what the profession and the science say, and so does the citizens. The citizens are not at all dissatisfied. We are dissatisfied as those who once led the municipality and today's people who run the municipality, because this is the serious income that we lost in 2006, which in that year amounted to 60 million dinars, which is some value of a million euros. We lost over two and a half billion dinars in 2006 through various donations that we had since Gerdap. We today, Gerdap, you know we can't, and we just have to talk to anyone, because my question is concrete, so that we can figure out ways. You're here in the second part where you mentioned it, and you said very well that we should address the Ministry and that together the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry find certain modalities and with the EPS that the issue, as far as Kladovo municipality... Believe me, 2,200 acres was immersed by the construction of Gjerdapa II, of which 1,100 acres of the most fertile oracies. Let me tell you something, the rent fund as such was not used only by Kladovo municipality, the smaller part was used by Negotin municipality, used by Majdanpek municipality, Golubac, Požarec, Smederevo, Kovin, even Belgrade and Novi Sad and they were not allocated funds for them as for Kladovo, because they had smaller problems. That's why I'm telling you in my best interest, because I also see good faith in you to find it. It's not your fault, it's not our fault, and if we're going to be historical, we've brought rent in the 1990s. Unfortunately, in 2006, someone accidentally found a way and a mode to end it. We are now in the best way, the message of all citizens, no matter what political option, is to see, because I think the strategic position of Kladov and the citizens of Kladov municipality deserve it, especially those 1,100 of our citizens who have invested their bones in the statehood of Serbia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10935	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10936	It was built a long time ago by Gerdap I and Gerdap II. I don't mind meeting you at the Ministry, but I'm also not sure that it's realistic that we're going back now and that what you want to pay for now, because it's money, but I'm here to sit down to see what exactly the problems you're having since the operation of the Gerdap II hydropower plants, along with Elektroprivred Serbia, are going to be building a new Đerdap III capacity, so the Ministry's doors are open to you, to you and, of course, your colleagues from Kladov and all other places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10937	You changed your mind for those two minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10938	Just to thank the minister. We've already put down a tone of answers and I can see that we're sure to solve something, which is very important to us, and it will certainly be for the benefit of all citizens. We've opened the topic. I agree that neither we nor you are to blame. That's what someone did. I agree we can't retroactively return, but we see what we can do next year to help these municipalities, or the Kladovo municipality. I thank both the government and you, Madam Minister, for your understanding and your invitation to the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10939	The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10940	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. First, I'll take the opportunity, they're pretty short those three minutes, but to welcome all members of the government present, headed by the prime minister. I am very rarely standing, but I always stand when I talk about some topics like those I want to talk about today and about which I want to ask on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group today. It is a rare moment in history, I must say, because it rarely happens that a representative of the largest parliamentary group has the opportunity to ask a question in parliament, but that must be democracy. Namely, some historical writings, a prominent prime minister, said that the most influential Serb in the Russian state was Sava Vladislavic, somewhere in the early 18th century and that he was the man who rightly raised the Serbian issue in the Russian state at the time, with Russian Emperor Nikolai the Great. The Russian state's assistance to the Serbian state was then in another sphere and was needed in the field of education, and it mainly went through this large diplomat and statesman who was then serving the Russian state. She looked into the needs of books for the education of Serbia at the time, where the Metropolitan of Belgrade-Carlovakia Moses addressed and began to arrive in both Mitrovica and Herceg Novi and Žito Misic in Neretva, but also in warm Boka Kotorska. They were looking forward to helping all Serbs back then in the Balkans. What would Sava Vladislavić say today, and what would all of us here say? Who is the most influential Serb in the modern Russian state? It doesn't take a lot of words, I think it would be proud to have one diplomat today, namely one statesman, Serb, Serbian citizen, the Serbian president who enjoys the greatest reputation in the modern Russian state, which today is not in the service of a state, but in the service of Serbia and Serbian citizens. It's the president of the state of Alexander Vukic today. A lot of this topic has been said today by all the media. It was also your first sentence when you started your presentation today and believe that this is the most important political topic that people in the Balkans are looking at today, but just like in the time of Sava Vladislavic, be assured that it is not only seen by citizens of Serbia and those living within these borders, but all those citizens and all those Serbs living outside the Republic of Serbia who are surrounded by two million. Since I don't have much time, I'm going to try to narrow the question down. We heard from the Serbian president today that this price he reached today in talks with the Russian president and with the Russian state, where it is now respected for the 19th time in its mandates, will contribute to 300m euros in savings over the next six months, which is big money. My question is whether Serbs, like at the time of Sava Vladislavic, can look forward to the success of the Serbian president and Serbian state in the Russian authorities and in the negotiations, will that benefit be deployed in both Belgrade and central Serbia, as well as in Republika Srpska, Montenegro, Macedonia, Slovenia, where does our people live? That's why I started this story about Savi Vladislavić and the help that came from Russia at the time. In that light, how far did we get with the construction of an airport in Trebinj? What happens to the construction of the highway and what are the plans when it comes to the highway to Bijeljina? What are the plans when it comes to the hydroenergy potentials built on Drina along with Republika Srpska, and will the government, headed by the president, continue to help our municipalities, our communities, both in the Federation and in Republika Srpska, as well as in Montenegro, as we hope for a better relationship between Montenegrin authorities, given the previous visit by Montenegrin Prime Minister Krivokapic? I've asked a little more questions, but of course you'll answer everything in one way, so we'll continue our conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10941	Thank you. I assume you've been using a bit of time for your final comment. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10942	Thank you. First of all, Your Honor, I would like to thank you personally for inviting and organising my visit to Nevessinj, Prebilovci and Mostar during my term as Prime Minister or since I entered the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's one of the most beautiful days I've ever had, and it's also one of the most interesting days I've ever had, especially visiting the Prebilovers and standing by what I said then, and that's that we're going to do everything we can to make the quality of people's lives, Serbs who have stayed there despite everything that's happened in the last, well, about 100 years. Despite all this, they stayed there and we will do everything we can to help support, finance local infrastructure projects, build our churches, help our cultural societies, cultural and artistic societies, schools, education, etc. Please welcome once again, many of my fathers, Radivoj Krulja, and say that I have spoken to President Vukic about him and the SPC and the temple in Mostar, and that we can see how we can help both this great important and magnificent facility end. As for the price of gas, once again, I started with it, it certainly marked my day, but it also marked somehow the last two months. Today, thanks to the agreement between President Alexander Vukic and President Putin, a great burden has been lifted from our backs today, a huge burden from our backs. I think 100 tons was taken off our backs. We get today, if you look only at today's gas price, once again just to understand how big and important it is, three and a half times cheaper gas. It's our life in the next six months, but then it's winter, and whatever it is, it's going to be a stable market, and we're going to know what's ahead of us in the long term, so it's going to be a lot easier and more predictable to negotiate further with the Russian Federation on new long-term contracts. The big deal is for Serbia and for all our citizens and for our entire economy was won by President Aleksandar Vukic today. Thank him again for that and once again thank President Putin for his understanding and his friendship and his support for Serbia today. Great things are done today, important things for Serbia. As for how this money will be invested, you know, we have saved a lot of money today, but it will allow us to continue uninterruptedly all of those projects that we have planned and an ambitious 2022 budget that will help us in our additional fiscal consolidation in order to slow down in 2022, as we planned, reduce this deficit in itself and make it much easier and public debt and make it easier for us. So it brings that stability and security in the coming months which is so important and, I say, that it will make it so much easier for us to realize and implement all of those projects that we have planned. Perhaps before we planned to start some new, important projects for all of us in Serbia, for our entire people. Will we continue to support Republika Srpska and projects in neighbouring countries, in those municipalities and in those places where the Serb people live? Absolutely. Strong Serbia for them means that we will have more money to finance their quality life through support for local infrastructure projects, construction of kindergartens, schools, hospitals, health homes, buying medical equipment, etc. So we are absolutely continuing with that policy that Alexander Vukic started as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 and when we set out in that kind of support for Republika Srpska, regardless of whether or not we were then in the period of fiscal consolidation, which we fought against the consequences of the flood, what we were fighting against the migrant crisis or facing the migrant crisis, we did find the means then to help the Republika Srpska, small compared to what we later gave when we financially and economically strengthened, but again it was an important sign of solidarity in the times hard to deal with. We continue our projects. You have clearly listed the most important projects, Trebinje Airport, which I think is the completion of project technical documentation and land expropriation. The highway to Bijeljina, we continue to build that direction on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, the highway Sremska Raca – Kuzmin is making good progress and the bridge via Sava, for which we fully bear all the costs and arrange for 90% of the highway financing on BiH territory, or Republika Srpska, 90% of the highway financing to Bijeljina. So I expect, as far as I know, from Republika Srpska, they completed complete project technical documentation, issuing permits, so let's start with that project in 2022 when the construction season starts. As for the construction project, the Buk White, we continue with that. There's been a lot of speculation that we're going to have to pause. We do not pause, we have no decision of the Constitutional Court in BiH, so we continue. As I said, we've done a full legal analysis as responsible investors, which is where I primarily think of Serbia's Elektroprivreda, the EPS, we've done a full legal analysis. We don't see any reason, if only of course it's about laws and law, that anyone pauses or stops the project. I don't rule out anything but I really don't, because such a decision would create complete legal uncertainty for all investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we expect that as investors, i.e. EPS, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as any other investor, to be treated. If he was a German investor, welcome to an open economy and the Serbian investor is probably welcome. In this spirit we continue this project which is extremely important not only for Serbia, Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina, but for the entire energy stability and security of the region and is only one in a series of projects of small and medium-sized hydropower plants on the Drina which we can build together and I expect that we will, as responsible people and build them in the future. So because of the crown, something was late with project-technical documentation, expropriation. I was hoping these projects would start doing everything in 2021. We started only Buk-Bela, Trebinje Airport in 2022 and, of course, on our part, we end up in 2022 that share to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina on our part and then we start building a highway to Bijeljina which, I said, will be financed by 90% of the total amount of 90% will be covered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you and many greetings to our brothers, friends in Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10943	The word has a People's MP, Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10944	President, I suppose the strength of this applause towards you and the members of the government and the Serbian president tells you how important these topics are among us national representatives in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as those living outside its borders. I guess somewhere in the logic of things, I, as chairman of the Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region, am always most interested in these issues, but not just me, but also my fellow Serbian Progressive Party MPs. By the way, this Assembly is being followed by our countrymen all over the region and around the world, and while you were saying, of course, I have already received a greeting from Mostar and a great thanks to the clergy and the faithful people in Mostar for everything you have said in the previous minutes. By the way, I am honored to be as a small part of a major policy led by today's President Vukic, to attend these visits with you, with representatives of the government and to see what our people's needs are in Republika Srpska. Each of those visits was all just not protocol. She was very specific and very decadent. Now one question to you, of course, rhetorically. You don't even have to answer it and question Serbia – do you remember visits from some past times not so long ago? Do you remember how specific they were and how fruit - bearing and protocol they were? Since I said you didn't even have to answer him, but that is ultimately your will, I will tell you – they were all just not concrete. They looked at one of the theatre's representatives of government with our people in the region, some false promises, and beyond all, there was a real hell going on. In what way? In the territory of the Republic of Serbia, they were arrested, persecuted as wild beasts and sent to theaters around the world by those who defended both Croatia and Republika Srpska, not only that, but who defended themselves and their homes. That was the essence of that policy. But what our people would say -- whether or not it happened again. We don't want to talk about it. What I still want to point out is that the government, there, enjoys our great support, in addition to the concrete projects it has been doing, has provided a serious political support in our people and our countrymen in the region. I'll mention it one more time. Common holidays have been established and I thank the Ministry of Labour for recognising this need, a common holiday celebrated by Serbia and Republika Srpska. Since this year it is also a Nevesin rifle and it is something very important for our people in both Republika Srpska and Serbia, but believe me in Montenegro as well. What I am still interested in – as far as we have arrived with the introduction of those common subjects that will be taught by children in Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia and as regards, above all, national culture, language, history, and can we hope that we can also help our people when it comes to the government in Belgrade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10945	Thank you. Vice-President and Minister Ruzic have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10946	I thank the chairman. Just one little supplement. counterpart Vujadinovic as a dedicated MP and just someone who affirms this union between, and a special connection, Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia mentioned a very important topic concerning so-called. identity textbooks and what I can say on behalf of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, certainly and on behalf of my colleagues from Republika Srpska and two competent institutions and two ministries have already held a series of meetings. We have agreed on exactly what is the basis of the community and the textbooks. It was also affirmed by a member of the BiH presidency, Mr Dodik and the President of the Republic, Mr Vukic, and the whole process and procedure is under way and I think it is above all something that is important and necessary for our people or for our countrymen wherever they live and this is, I would say, in the context of all legislative activities, such as the Law on, for example, popularly called, on the protection of Cyrillic Letters, only one piece of a successful mosaic that demonstrates this very community and I am extremely glad that this issue is mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10947	Ambassador Vujadinović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10948	Thank you, Mr. President. Lucky for me, the vice president's gone. He still told me to give up my two minutes. I'm kidding, of course. It would take a lot more than these two minutes. From all that we have been able to hear in this short time today and to see, we can conclude that the government and the president are primarily committed to the improvement and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. those who live within its borders, as well as those who live beyond its borders. I'm going to cut short now, dear Prime Minister, I'm just going to tell you -- you, Serbian President, Serbian Government, a great thank you to us Members of the SNS, above all, for everything you do when it comes to our people in both the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but all that you do when it comes to our people living across the Balkans, and in Slovenia, and in Croatia, and in Montenegro, and in Macedonia, and in Hungary. There is no country in the environment where we have held talks, we as MPs, representatives of the legislative authority, where our political representatives or representatives of the association of citizens do not show great satisfaction and do not express great support for policies headed by today's Serbian President, Aleksandar Vucic. We, SNS MPs, will certainly remain faithful to this policy, we will remain those who will help you and the President, we will remain someone who supports such a kind of policy, but believe me, most importantly, it will remain our people in Serbia and the environment. Apropo that, I am sure it will be difficult and I am sure that in the elections that are already ahead of us, hundreds and a few days, our people will know how to assess this policy and to support those who have brought the country and our people into this state, in a state where Serbia can progress and help those who rely on it. I repeat again -- it will be a difficult task, given the force that the country's president's policy today clashes with money on the political influence of foreign centres, on the criminal structures that are logistical support for such policies, but I am sure that the people will ultimately win. Thank you again for listening to us MPs in this National Assembly. Thank you for doing this for our people in Serbia and beyond. In the end – lived Serbia and lived our people in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10949	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10950	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, I would like to welcome you as a man who comes from southeastern Serbia, from the municipality of Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly I represent the United Peasant Party, and I have been selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Now that we've heard from my colleague, Milimir Vujadinovic, a man who is a real and great Serb, and we're all here and we think in the most part the same, I'm going to ask you a few questions. First, to you, and then I'd ask our minister who comes from southern Serbia, Tonchev. I'll ask you a question first. In particular, I have to say, to boast that yesterday was Minister Momirovic's place where we received funds as a municipality for the construction of a sewer, for the construction of a wastewater factory. It will be a big job for our municipality, it will be a great opportunity for the development of our municipality in the area of tourism because it is near the Old Mountains, because there is a great chance for tourism. My question is – will there be a possibility that within the scope of our government, the budget for 2022, after we have prepared and made as a municipality all supporting documentation, which is for changing asbestos pipes. Our plumbing's been done, one part's in the '60s, the other part's been done in the '70s. As a municipality, we managed to reconstruct most of it, but I think there's 40% of that water line left from the source to the Srlig. Will it be possible to do that in the next year? That would be a great need for us, because we have a good and healthy spring, healthy water, but the part about asbestos pipes is more talked about. It would be good to get rid of it. I know it's in the plan to do it through Program 2025, which our President Vukic announced, and I expect to do it next year because we prepared the project documentation and we handed it over to the Investment Office. I'm sure we'll do that. That's one question. The second question – since I know that we adopted the budget yesterday, where the budget separates more funds for the development of the economy, for the development of agriculture, for the development of health care, for new employment, for sport, which is a great and excellent thing. I say this very little because I come from Srlig, and I live there, and I have to ask about my fellow citizens. We started our sports gym ninety-two years ago. In 2017 we received funds from the Investment Office and now this should finally be completed, i.e. to be completed. It's a need for our little kids, for those young people who do sports. I'd like to hear if there's a possibility within the 2022 budget to do that? For Minister Tonchev, there's only one question and I won't do it again. For Minister Tončev's question, for his ministry that favors us, these underdeveloped municipalities – will the 2022 budget have the opportunity to make those things that we have now applied and not finished doing so next year? Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10951	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10952	Okay, I can promise you that I will also check with the Public Investment Management Office and with the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure regarding who was planned for the complete reconstruction and construction of the water network in the Republic of Serbia in 2022. We have several sources of funding here, including the German "KfW", so we will be in touch with it. If you have a project, technical documentation ready, completed, then it's an extenuating circumstance because we always need ready-made projects, but we need to see that all these projects are synchronised. So if we're already working in the 2022th year of sewerage, wastewater treatment plants, can we technically do the plumbing now and how it affects life in Svrlig. We'll check it out. As for the gym, you mentioned this to me the last time I was in Srlig, we'll see the Ministry of Youth and Sports, with Minister Udovic, but also with the Office for Public Investment Management. It's important to define the priorities well, to do the first things that are most important for people in Srelig because there are extremely big needs everywhere again, and it's important to define priorities. Is that, as I recall, when people told me in Srlig that it was important for them to finish the Atari roads, it was something that was up to local self-government? If local self-government doesn't have enough resources to finish it, let's see if it's better to help in that or in the gym, but just to see what exactly the priorities are. Anyway, it's a good thing we're doing a sewer and wastewater treatment plant, I promise we'll see about these other projects what we can do in 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10953	Thank you. The word has a Minister Tonchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10954	Dear People's MPs, my comrade Miletic, we are together at the same time, when you were president of the Srlig Municipality, I was president of the Surdulic municipality, these are two undeveloped municipalities. We were MPs here together. Now I'm running a ministry that's in charge of local environments like this. As for the municipality of Svrlig, 5,700,000 dinars were given from my ministry this year to build a sports field. It was also given two and a half million to produce project documentation for projects that will be funded in 2022. We bought a van for one association, so we helped the Srlig municipality and we'll continue. I can promise you before the Prime Minister and my fellow ministers that you will not receive small funds, but there will be more funds for your municipality and for the other municipalities in the following year. You're doing projects. We're here to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10955	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10956	Thank you. What I'm asking is, it's about small environments, undeveloped municipalities, mountain-mounted areas. My question of the Ministers of Labour and Social Policy is specifically related, as many of our small communities have problems with the old population of people, related to our geronto service, because within your ministry, all of our associations or those institutions that are licensed, receive funds and work to help our homes of health. My question, will it also be possible in the coming period for this geronto service to be able to function, to visit when it is most difficult for every man, whether he lives in the center of that municipality or in some village at the end of that municipality? This question concerns a large number of our municipalities that are underdeveloped, which are mountain-mounted, which are diverged and have great territory. This is very important for our municipalities, because health homes, and I can commend the Minister of Health and the Ministry of Health, which is well done within the previous year and in the previous years for the employment of new workers and for the needs of the clinics in our villages. So, the geronto service is very important and we have to do it together. One of the very important things for our environments is the question for Minister Atanaskovic, who is involved in the employment of people, since a large number of municipalities, as well as the municipalities from which I come, and such are the fourth and fifth groups, there are over 40, employment through the programmes provided by the ministry, the government through your ministry, and my question is whether there will be more investments like the previous year and this year for southeastern Serbia to employ and bring some new investments into the territory of the Nisav district in particular? This applies to our Nishav district because it is a short-term need for human employment and thus to provide jobs for young people to stay here to work, function and create families, because without work and job, no one will be left in Srvljig, or in Bela Palank, or in Gajin Han, they will not stay in Nis, because the most important thing is to get jobs back to work. I know your ministry is very active. We, as a local self-government, have received certain resources for a project that is important for the construction, specifically for the development of tourism. But the economy and employment of people within the ministry for 2022, as far as I know, has allocated a lot of funds in the budget, whether they will have the opportunity to come directly to us in the territory of the southeast of Serbia, or the Low District. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10957	Thank you. Minister Kisic Tepavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10958	Thank you for the question you have asked, which is directly related to the phenomenon of ageing the population we are facing and also one significant problem in those parts of our country that have somewhat less accessibility and also in a direct relationship with an older population that has often remained in the rural environment. When it comes to geronto housewives, it is one of the services in the community, and as you know every year, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs sets aside dedicated transfers for less developed municipalities in our country which are currently aimed at making local self-government available to them according to the needs. In any case, the need for a geronto housewife and the need for proper care for the oldest population is something that is one of the priorities. So, again, I would like to point out that at the ministry's level, financial resources are allocated and are referred to the level of local self-government that depends on the need on its field of money. Every year there is an increasing amount of money that has been allocated for that purpose, so we hope to continue with such a trend over the next period of time. I note, I hope that this trend of ageing population and this need will grow smaller and that this population policy will stop the trend of ageing in the population, and I hope that we will achieve what we all seek, and it is to make us more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10959	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Atanaskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10960	As for the economy, you know that it was my coming to Srlig's plan, but the disease stopped me from doing it, which doesn't mean I won't do it now in the next period. Investments are not only smaller, so the money that is allocated to direct investment is bigger this year, and the president himself is on that line to bring as much investment as possible into undeveloped areas. Normally, infrastructure has to be done, what we talked about when you were with us there, to prepare the ground for investors. You have a colleague next to you from Priboj who did great, and I, when I was impressed, have a free zone and a complete infrastructure, so every investor wants to come and it's almost filled. So you can learn a lot from them and advise you on how to do what's best to attract an investor to come to such an area the next day. You know that this is much harder than the landscapes are developed, but we are all trying together to do it evenly across Serbia. I'll see you in Srlig soon, I hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10961	Thank you. Ambassador Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10962	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, I can, as a People's MP and representative of the United Peasant Party here in the Assembly, who was elected from the list Alexander Vukic – For our children, be pleased with the work of our government and as a man, I think that this government and previous government, as well as the previous government led by our president, was very strong, that the trend was development. It's all seen, it's done on roads, it's built everything else. Otherwise, today is the International Day of Fight against Women, and we have to work on that plan. We're all here, we want as little violence as possible, and those who are violent ones have to answer for it. Once again, honourable Prime Minister, honourable fellow Members, ministers, you continue, we will work with you to ensure that every municipality, every village gets what it takes for people to live there. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-25-0.u10963	Thank you. Since we have two minutes left, but we have exhausted the list of speakers, I would like to thank the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic and members of the government for their presence. Allow me only in the end with their presence to point out that today is International Day against Violence Against Women. Women are our greatest treasure and I want on behalf of the National Assembly to give maximum support to suppressing violence against women. Secondly, let me repeat again on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia what Prime Minister Ana Brnabic said at the beginning, to welcome President Aleksandar Vukic and President Vladimir Putin's agreement on guaranteed prices and quantities of gas delivery in the coming very important months. This is another evidence of friendly relations between the Russian Federation and Serbia and the extraordinary personal relations between President Putin and Vukic. On behalf of the National Assembly, another card. I thank everyone for your attention, thank the government's representatives, and we have to move on. I am concluding a principled search on the proposal for a referendum law and a people's initiative. According to Article 87(5), I hereby order Thursday, November 25th, 2021, starting at 19:00 and two minutes, as a day for voting on the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 169 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. Before we move to a decision on the Bill on Referendum and People's Initiative, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3 (1) of the Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the referendum and the People's Initiative by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the decision on the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on the referendum and the People's Initiative, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote and declare: total – 180, for – 178, v – two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you he's a member of 83. The draft law on the referendum and the People's Initiative provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote and declare: total – 180, for – 178, v – two. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have completed our decision on early entry into force, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on the referendum and the people's initiative in general. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote and declare: total – 180, for – 178, v – two. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted a bill on referendums and the People's Initiative. I remind you, before the session is concluded, that tomorrow we will continue to work on the agenda points of the session that is under way and that the vote will be in the afternoon. I would like to inform you that a session of members of the Republic Election Commission will most likely be held on Monday, on the basis of this law, and on Tuesday most likely a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the adoption of a proposal for amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Thank you.
