ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u6989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 13th session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 124 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 164 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u6990	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, before I ask a specific question, I would like to thank the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, who visited the municipalities of Prepolje and Priboj on Friday. It's the first time in history that one of the presidents of the state visited Prepolje outside the election campaign. In a conversation I had with the president, I saw a firm determination to keep everything that was promised, to have a balanced regional development and to make the state of Serbia a home for all of our citizens. What makes me particularly happy is that in his address to citizens, the president highlighted everything that is part of the coalition agreement between the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the Serbian Progressive Party, which is building a highway towards Montenegro, continuing and designing the highway towards Sarajevo, gasification, replacement of the low voltage and high voltage network. It is something that is a prerequisite for the economic development of that part of Serbia. What makes me particularly happy is that the president pointed out in his address to citizens that the precondition for investment is stability and a good relationship between the Bosniak and Serbian people. What I'm trying to point out is that Pryboy County is an example of how one valley of hunger can be made into a successful place. It's a municipality that's almost unemployed. Also, this credit belongs to a fellow MP, Krsta Janjusevic. And I want to thank the President for the help he has promised the Municipality of Sjenica. In a conversation with the president of the municipality, he received information on what problems the municipality is in, and that in the municipality, there are now decent, honest and capable people in power. A concrete question I refer to goes to the address of the Justice Ministry - when will the abuse of former Minister of Human and Minority Rights Svetozar Ciplic be examined in the 2008-2011 term? The other day I read the public address of the former minister, where he recommends himself as a reformer and as a new face in politics. And in 2008, when he was appointed minister, Svetozar Ciplic was not new, let alone today. It is a man who has carried out the act of the most brutal discrimination against the Bosniak people. It is a man who suspended the work of the Bosniak National Council for four years in his term as Minister of Human and Minority Rights. What did Svetozar Ciplic do when elections were held for the National Council of Bosniaks in 2010 and when Mufti Muamer Zukorlic – the Bosniak Cultural Community won 49% of the vote and when we came to the moment of the formation of the National Council? Then this expert made a statement, changed his rules and said the Bosniaks were special and needed special rules for them. Since that day, there has been an abuse of the Bosniak National Council, and that is why today we have the situation we have. It's a man who now proposes himself as a legal expert who should be working on electoral conditions. What were the election conditions that year 2010? Well, we had no right to have controllers in polling stations. So much for democracy and the way the election process is experienced by Svetozar Ciplic. I think it's time for us to go through the papers a little bit and the Department of Justice and the D.A. to deal with this case and see what the former minister has been doing in his term, since he's been teaching this country long and long enough to make it look like the legal order of our country. Instead of covering himself with his ears and being in deep political illegality, being despised for all that he has done, he today offers his own policy as a new leader, which as we have seen, rests on discrimination against minority communities and abuse of position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u6991	Thank you. The word has the life of Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u6992	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, wants this opportunity to request information from the competent state authorities on the following. Namely, on December 7th 2014, Vračar Police Station made an official note on the application of former wife Dragan Gilas, Ivo Gilas, following a report that Dragan Gilas committed domestic violence. Namely, the official note says that Dragan Gilas, on December 6th, arrived at the apartment of Ivo Gilas and her family, that he had attacked Ivo Gilas, that he had struck his father, or father, Ivo Gilas, his former father-in-law, that he had inflicted serious physical injuries on him and threatened his wife, Ivo Gilas, to cut off her head. After leaving the scene where he committed domestic violence and violence against his ex-wife, Dragan Gilas told someone - call the police. This gives us the right to suspect that Dragan Gilas wanted to put pressure on the competent state authorities and institutions with the help of his political and economic influence. Given that in 2021 today, we're looking for information on whether something under this official note has been done and done, if not, why not, and we're asking that in that case, if it isn't, the competent authorities take all the legal and necessary action. It is, in fact, the president of the Freedom and Justice Party, the man who designed it himself, through his worker, Marinika Tepic, and planted more lies in Serbia than farmers have sown grain in the last 10 years. Those for the chicken farm say that's where the drugs are made. They muddle the officials of this country, directors of public enterprises, local officials, but they don't have enough and nothing is sacred to them. They continue in their manner to muddle the president of the Republic, muddy members of his family, invent the most disgusting lies against the children of the president of the Republic, and do not give any evidence and place their lies on the media as one ultimate truth, just as in the case of Drana Markovic Palma. As president of the Freedom and Justice Party, Dragan Gilas thinks it's freedom to lie all you want and whatever you want and not to answer. He sees freedom as freedom to beat, threaten, blackmail, invade and break institutions without having to answer for it. He sees justice by righting its lies. He takes these lies as facts by which he charges and by which he judges, and gives no one the right to defend himself. That is Gilas' freedom, and that is Gilas's righteousness, E, so he will not be able to do it. Justice is only in the institutions of the Serbian state, and it is not in Dragan Gilas, nor in the Party of Freedom and Justice, nor in any other political party. So once and for all, we have to stand in the way and therefore ask the authorities to respond to the case of domestic violence and violence against women in the case where we have victims, where we have witnesses, where we have the perpetrator, or the culprit, which is Dragan Gilas. Justice for Gilas' wife and father-in-law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u6993	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Rosalia Ekres.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u6994	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, I would like to ask the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Smuggling the planet, as a way of combating climate change, has been a prominent topic for several years. Ecologist estimates suggest that planting trees would be more effective in reducing harmful gases than other ecological solutions. The European noise average is 46%. Serbia currently has about 29% of the area under the forest, and the National Forest Strategy is seeking to raise this percentage to about 42%. The Autonomous province of Vojvodina with about 6.5% of forest areas, unfortunately, represents an area with the lowest degree of noise in Serbia and Europe. In order to achieve an optimal noise of 14% in Vojvodina, the area under the forest should be at least doubled. The big problem is even an unbalanced schedule of forests. In the 14 municipalities of Vojvodina, the degree of noise is below 1%. Since Vojvodina, as is known, is a predominantly agricultural region, it is not easy to find new areas that could be forested. Areas for deforestation should be sought in lower classes of agricultural land, as well as in traffic and canals. It would also be important to raise wind protection belts, and in urban areas it should try to encase the free space with decorative vegetation. At the beginning of this year, the Ministry of Environment Protection granted 100m dinars for 38 local self-government, many of which are from Vojvodina. Among them is Temerin, a municipality that leads a list of the least forested municipalities and towns in Serbia from below 1%. Temerin is also my birthplace, so I am particularly glad that the Ministry of Environmental Protection has defined 2.2 million dinars to Temerin Municipality for the start of the revitalisation of the monument of nature "Old Park". The area of the park is close to four hectares. It was erected in the early 19th century, parallel to the construction of the Sechenj family castle. By restoring the "Old Park" and the lakes in it, and hopefully the castle, one extremely natural and cultural heritage will be preserved permanently. In the local communities of Vojvodina there are dozens of similar parks with exceptional natural, historical and cultural heritage. I will single out the park in Novi Knezevic, which is protected by the state, as a natural monument of garden and landscape architecture. It was built by the Italian and Fajlic families during the 19th century on about 10 hectares of surface. On this occasion, I am addressing the Ministry of Environment Protection and I am asking the following question -- since the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget by 2021 has increased the initial budget for environmental protection by four billion dinars, is the Ministry planning to launch new competitions for deforestation, and in which the funds would also be defined to revitalise local parks with natural and cultural heritage, as well as to establish new ones with a view to easing climate extremes at local level? I ask the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management – do you think that the amendments to the Forest Law should oblige local self-government to develop a plan of deforestation in which they would define areas suitable for deforestation and resolve property-legal relations on them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u6995	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u6996	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only get a hold of myself, before I ask the question, of what Mr Starcevic was talking about. He asked for justice. I'm not going to mention family, but I'm looking on behalf of the SPS MPs' group for justice for Serbian citizens. Why do I say that? When someone who calls himself an opposition, and who has not learned in life what is the responsibility, seriousness, effort, work, energy and dedication, especially when it comes to the interests of citizens and the interests of the state, the mentally ill person you call the legitimately elected president of the state, the mentally ill person, then you degrade and insult the citizens of Serbia who give the same president enormous support and send a message to the Serbian citizens that they are mentally ill. We are asking for the protection of Serbian citizens from these quasi-politicals. My question today is on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, Culture Minister Maja Gojkovic. In fact, the aspirations of Albanians towards the most valuable Serbian cultural heritage in KIM do not hurt. These days, Albin Kurti came out with a proposal that UNESCO no longer treats as an endangered heritage of cultural monuments in KIM that are listed in the UNESCO World Heritage List. It's the High Decans, the Roast Patriarchate, the Gracanica, the Mother of Ljeviška. When UNESCO declared them a world cultural heritage in 2004 and 2006, I will remind them of the monuments of culture in danger, that is, danger, because there was a complete destruction of everything that was Serbian heritage in the area of KIM. Can't forget all the broken and burned churches, broken crosses on our sanctums, destroyed frescoes, stolen icons and other sacred statues and vessels. There are well-known attacks on the High Decani monastery and on the iguman of the monastery, which aim to make the last Serbian history and culture keepers disappear from the KIM space. Then, Kurti, in order to capture all of our history and culture, which was preserved in the KIM area, even asked that Pristina return to the exhibits held at the National Museum, the Ethnographic Museum and SANA in Belgrade, as if it were theirs and that these are not the central institutions of our country's culture in which cultural treasures are stored from all over Serbia's territory. All this says Pristina is pretty nervous and wants to prove it has the right to something that doesn't belong to it. We wonder if this isn't a campaign to capture our heritage, a cover-up for the crimes against Serbs spoken of these days, it's the status of missing persons, and the most powerful example of missing persons in the Koshar area, including six soldiers who have evidence that a crime has been committed on them. That's what Mr. Veljko Odalovic, chairman of the Missing Persons Commission, also spoke of. It is clear that Pristina is trying to, using some of its external partners and supporting some countries in the region, build its parallel state on the historical foundations and heritage of our country. We know they wanted to enter UNESCO using our cultural heritage on KIM. In order to protect ourselves from such extremist demands and behaviour towards our historical and cultural heritage, we must report to the team about all relevant institutions dealing with the research and preservation of our heritage which confirms that we are as a people in these areas more than 13th century. I won't mention new research that says we've been here much longer and that the Serbian letter is one of the oldest. In that sense, I would ask the Minister of Culture a question. Since Serbia's cultural heritage and all cultural monuments from different historical periods on KIM are exposed to constant destruction and adoption by Albanians, which is the revision of history, whether the Ministry of Culture can make a list of all cultural and historical monuments on KIM territory and address UNESCO's demand that all cultural heritage on KIM be declared endangered and placed under special form of protection by UNESCO as a global organisation of the UN dealing with the protection of the cultural heritage of all peoples of the world. I would also take the opportunity to comment on the freshest statement by Albin Kurti concerning three municipalities in southern Serbia, which are also living in Albanians. The fresh news is that National Council of Albanians President Rakmi Mustafa spoke to Kurti and even thanked him for helping alleged Pristina during the Kovid era. It is interesting to know what assistance the Albanians in central Serbia have provided. Medical equipment and vaccines are certainly not the issue, because we know that Albanians from KIM territory have been treated throughout Serbia and that we have never made a difference among citizens. Kurti made pointless accusations at Serbia's expense, saying Serbs are passiveising the Albanian population in municipalities in southern Serbia. That, of course, is not true. It is about those citizens of Albanian nationality who have registered in a huge number at non-existent addresses. The bear is an example of such reporting by Albanians, who wanted to violently change the national structure of the population and artificially increase the percentage of Albanians who never lived or lived in these municipalities. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u6997	Thank you. The word is Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u6998	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer a few questions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The first issue concerns resolving the housing issue of expelled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH. In Serbia, there are more than 12,000 exile families from Croatia and the Federation of BiH who have not yet resolved their housing issue. Also, there are more than a thousand exile families whose Commissioner for Refugees and Migration does not allow them to compete to resolve their housing issue, as they have not formally registered as refugees on the 1996 census. Also, it has a significant number of exile families which are making it impossible to buy out their apartments that have been built by means of international donations and the EU. I ask the government - will the Government of the Republic of Serbia continue its regional housing programme in co-operation with the EU and finally resolve the housing issue of all the exile families and all the remaining unresolved issues in the integration process? The second issue concerns the kidnapped and usurped assets and acquired rights of hundreds of thousands of expelled Serbs from the territory of Croatia and the Federation of BiH. During the war and after the war, the exiled Serbs in Croatia and the Federation of BiH were usurped or kidnapped property, agricultural and forest land, delayed outstanding pensions, tenant rights, an unrecognized part of the work experience, no compensation for destroyed and damaged property in classical terrorist actions across Croatian cities and cities in the Federation of BiH and a number of other issues. I ask the government - will the Government of the Republic of Serbia launch a fundamental dialogue with official Zagreb and Sarajevo on finding a fair and lasting solution to the kidnapped and usurped assets and acquired rights of expelled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH? The basis of this dialogue must be one of the very important interstate agreements, the Vienna Agreement on Sucession, namely Annex 7 of that Agreement, which is called Private Property and Rights acquired and clearly states that all citizens must be protected and returned to the rights they had on 31.12.1990, and all contracts concluded under pressures and threats must be declared void. The Vienna Succession Agreement has stronger legal force than the laws in BiH and Croatia because the agreement is ratified both in the BiH Assembly and in the Croatian Parliament. The third issue concerns persecution, prosecution of former JNA members, members of the Republika Srpska Army and members of the Republika Srpska War Crimes Army. In the past 26 years, the ethnically motivated judiciary in Zagreb and Sarajevo has been pursuing honorable Serbian fighters who fought for their people and the state, who fought to preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Yugoslavia. What is the objective of the ethnically motivated judiciary in Sarajevo and Zagreb? The goal is to make as many false judgments based on false evidence, based on false testimony of the co-workers' witnesses to justify the pointless and complete lie and fiction of Bosniak and Croatian politicians that Serbia and Serbs have committed aggression against BiH and Croatia, and that Bosniaks and Croats have been the innocent victims of the great-Serbian aggression. I ask the government – will the Government of the Republic of Serbia set up an office to assist the accused, suspected and convicted Serbs in war crimes, to provide them with full legal, financial, professional assistance to defend themselves against mounted judicial proceedings in Zagreb and Sarajevo? Finally, I'm asking the D.A.'s War Crimes Prosecutor's Office whether the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office will finally start investigating and pressing charges for numerous brutal, mass and ferocious crimes committed by members of the so-called. BiH armies, Croatian armies, various Bosniak and Croatian paramilitary formations? In the previous period, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has, therefore, since its founding in 2003 until the end of last year on the basis of information supplied to them, made 217 indictments. The national structure of these charges is shameful and scandalous. Of these 217 indictments, 190 were brought against Serbs, 21 against Albanians, 17 of whom were released from the dinar group with express evidence of crimes against our people in the Metohija area, four indictments against Bosniaks and only two indictments against Croats. It's absolutely scandalous and embarrassing work of the D.A.'s War Crimes Department. So I ask the question, once again -- when will the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office process all those responsible for numerous brutal and mass crimes against Serb civilians and Serb prisoners of war during the civil war in Croatia and BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u6999	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Đuro Peric and Jelisaveta Veljkovic. You were presented with records of the 10th and 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the work of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and Immunity Issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 10th session of the First regular session of the National Assembly in 2021, held on 29 April and 5 May and 6 May 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 184, for - 175, nine MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by a majority vote the Record of the tenth session of the First Regular Session in 2021. I am voting on the minutes of the 11th session of the First regular session of the National Assembly in 2021, held on 11th, 12th and 13th May 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 184, for - 176, eight MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority votes the 11th session of the First Regular Session in 2021. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal for a sitting session of the act following an urgent procedure on a proposal to supplement the proposed agenda, on a proposal for a merger of the debate and on a proposal to amend the order of each item. The government proposed that the draft Act amending the Excise Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 May, be put on the agenda of the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 184, for - 179, five MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Gjorge Komlenski, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs: Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica, on 16 November 2020. People's MP George Komlensky has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7000	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, respected colleagues, respected colleagues, should not be reminded that they will soon be equal to 22 years from the end of the criminal bombing and the killing of citizens of the Republic of Serbia by the NATO Pact and their dikes. Until today, we don't even know the exact number of victims of this criminal aggression and this murderous mission that was intended only to destroy the Republic of Serbia, both by hijacking part of the territory, by destroying the economic system, by killing people, by killing soldiers, by killing children. Dear colleagues, we have witnessed that for a long time the victims of the First World War, the victims of the Second World War, who this people have endured in every way, are being reduced and dissuaded, challenged, ridiculed. Today we have a unique opportunity not to do the same at the mistakes of our predecessors. That is why it is this proposal to make up a name list of all those who have lost their lives or have in any way been killed during the bombing, soldiers, cops, citizens, and children. The least we can do to keep those victims forever and ever remembered, but to leave in an amannet to our descendants the truth that no one can deny. The only way to do that is to determine exactly how many children are, how many men, how many officers, how many soldiers have been killed by the evil hands of the NATO pact for 78 days of the 1999 bombing.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7001	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: in total – 185, for -22, 163 MPs did not vote. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the draft Act amending the Act on Excises and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the ID card. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for -181, four MPs did not vote. I find the National Assembly most of the votes accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed a change in the order of examination of the points, i.e. the draft Act amending the Excise Act as the first point of the proposed agenda. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for -181, four MPs did not vote. I find the National Assembly most of the votes accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the proposal for a sitting session on the agenda of the emergency procedure on the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda of the session, the proposal for a merger of the debate and the proposal for a change in the order of examination of certain points, on the basis of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – 181, did not vote four. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the 13th session of the First Regular National Assembly in 2021, in general. I ask the Service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Dn n e d d: Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Excises, submitted by the Government, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the ID card, which was submitted by the Government and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Business Secrets, which was submitted by the Government. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend: Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister, Aleksandar Vulin, Interior Minister Slavica Savicic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dr Dragan Demirović, v.d. Assistant Minister of Finance Zoran Lazic, Interior Ministry Secretary Valentina Vulic, Head of the Department of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of Interior and Anastasia Tanja Djelic, Head of the Department of Finance. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Before we move on to the search, I would just like to point out that we will be working on the first two points of the agenda today, that we will work on the 3rd item of the agenda tomorrow, and on Thursday, if there are amendments and there are, and in the afternoons, as you know, every last Thursday of the month, asking parliamentary questions to the government, headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, until 19.00 p.m., and then after that day to vote. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint review of the draft Act amending the Act on Excises and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the ID card. Since the proposer's representative will be here soon, so we don't start a debate without him, so I suggest a 10-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7002	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. We welcome the Minister of Finance, Mr. Sinisha Malo and his associates, and I ask him if he wants to speak as a representative of the Proposer. Yeah. Here you are, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7003	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia today are changing two laws that are extremely important on the one hand for the functioning of our economy, on the other hand for the quality of our citizens' lives. The first law is the law amending the Excise Act. The reason why we are amending this law is to achieve harmonisation of excise policy in the Republic of Serbia when strong alcoholic beverages are concerned with EU excise policy. Our existing Excise Act is not in line with the way the excise policy on strong alcoholic beverages is headed to the EU, on the other hand it is not in agreement with Article 37. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which was signed since 2008. It is precisely the amendments to this law that we want to agree with these policies and, above all, when it comes to EU accession, to meet the precondition for Chapter 16 and Cluster Three, so that we can open negotiations on all these chapters. What's the difference? So what's the basic difference? In our country, excise policy in the case of strong alcoholic beverages is defined on the basis of the product type, so whether grape fruit brandy, cereal rakia depending on the type of product is defined and the level of excise duty. It is not a policy and it is not an excise policy implemented by the EU. Therefore, excise duty in the case of strong alcoholic beverages in the EU is defined on the basis of one hectolitre of alcohol, so that is 100 liters, at a temperature of 20 degrees and then regardless of the type of finished product, so the type of alcoholic drink excise is calculated on the basis of volume or percentage of alcohol in that finished product. So, a completely different way of calculating than is now done in the Republic of Serbia. We just want to bring our rules into line with EU policy and, as you can see, the amendments to this law completely loses the difference in fiscal burden, so both excise duty and VAT between different types of strong alcoholic beverages if they contain the same percentage of alcohol. I would like to point out that the excise on beer and other low alcoholic beverages will remain unchanged. As I said, we are creating preconditions by amending this law to open Cluster 3 in a negotiating position with the EU in order to continue the EU accession process at an even faster pace. There are also amendments to the I.D. Act before you. Namely, the Personal Card Act was passed in 2006. The last law of change has suffered exactly ten years ago, so conditions have been created for this law to change to step up and to digitise, as we want to facilitate the service of citizens when it comes to the work of the Ministry of Interior and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia. What is very important, which is the objective of amending this law is therefore that citizens and of the house without going to the counter, without waiting in line, exercise their rights in order to increase the efficiency of the excessive work of our administration. It is, of course, part of a major program not only of digitisation, but also of a program called – stop bureaucracy, so that we do not depend more on the counters, nor on the counters, that we do not wait in line, that the less we use paper, the more we protect our environment, and that we ultimately achieve our rights faster and more effectively. Well, what are the most important amendments to this law? According to the provisions of the proposal for this law, citizens will not have to advertise it in the "Official Messenger" in the event of a lack of ID card and pay advertising fees, as has been the case so far. Namely, in this case, after adopting a decision to declare a ID card, the MUP will invalidally declare it invalid on its official web presentation. In this way, aside from simplifying the procedure, the costs that citizens now have are reduced. Of course, it also contributes to better legal certainty and to increasing general security. The second important amendment of this law refers to the entry into the ID card chip of an electronic identification certificate on the basis of which the identity card is a means of identifying it remotely. In addition, the addition also provides for the signing of a qualified electronic signature certificate, making the ID card defacto a means to create an electronic signature of high levels of reliability. So all of these changes, as you saw and as I said at the beginning of the address, contribute to better legal certainty, to greater security on the one hand, but on the other hand, that citizens can make their rights come true faster and more effectively. In order to increase legal certainty, it is also proposed to add the address of the residence to the ID form in order to better and more precisely define the local authority's competence to handle administrative matters. You still have a lot of changes in this law, but in any case, the law that has been made has been defined before you, and in favour of the direct benefit of the citizens of Serbia in terms of achieving their rights, faster, more efficient and cheaper. I hope that in the voting day you will support the amendments to these two laws, and in the meantime I remain at your disposal for the questions and for the discussion that follows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7004	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yes, the People's Parliament and the Vice President of the National Assembly, Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7005	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the reason for the amendment of the Excise Act is also contained in the need to achieve a gradual harmonisation of excise policy with EU standards, as we have heard. In fact, the Excise Act, currently in force, is not in line with the EU directives in the process of taxation of alcoholic beverages excise duty and with two directives. With a structural directive on alcoholic beverages number 83, since October, particularly since 19 October 1992, as well as a directive on the approximation of excise duty rates on alcoholic beverages number 84, also since 19 October 1992. In this regard, indeed, in order to gradually bring domestic legislation into line, from the field of taxation, from the excise duty of alcoholic beverages, these amendments to the law are finally proposed concrete things relating to the taxation of the excise duty of strong alcoholic beverages, as we have heard. From the distinguished, Mr. Minister, in his opening statement, we heard the argument, and yesterday at the session of the Committee on European Integration, from Madam State Secretary, that, as is known under EU regulations, the excise on strong alcoholic beverages is determined by a hectolitre of pure alcohol at 20 degrees Celsius and calculated on the basis of that number, which marks the volume of alcohol expressed in hectolitres in the finished product, regardless of the type of strong alcoholic drink, because here everyone is now talking about whether it is whiskey or brandy, domestic brandy. So, regardless of the type of alcoholic drink and independent of the raw materials, what is actually produced from that very alcoholic drink. While, as we have heard, as is known, so far, it has been valid that in the Republic of Serbia, heavy alcoholic beverages are calculated excisely according to the applicable legal solution, wages depending on the type of alcoholic beverages, which are divided into three categories, are actually the basis of raw materials, depending on the raw materials of which are produced and the content of ethanol. So it is very clear from this that there is a very large one, I would say a deviation between domestic legislation and EU legal flows. So, so far, there has been at least that derogation from the EU directive, which I mentioned. And respected, Mr. Minister mentioned, a very significant SAA, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, a provision of Article 37. The SAA, it says, refers to a ban on fiscal consolidation. As is known, the SAA was signed in April, 29 April 2008, and entered into force on 1 September 2013. It is prescribed by the SAA, among other things, that the Community and the Republic of Serbia will refrain from introducing and abolishing any measure or practice of an internal fiscal nature, which produces, directly or indirectly, discrimination against similar products that originate from the territory of the other party. Indeed, what is basic and why now, and why by emergency procedure, why at this point? It is very important that we, the Republic of Serbia, are fully prepared to open one whole cluster, cluster 3, as we have heard and are specifically preparing for the possibility of opening, at the latest in late June, negotiating Chapter 16 and in the negotiating position it is said that we will amend the Excise Act, so it is now on the agenda and, of course, we hope to vote it by the end of the week. The negotiating chapter 16, taxation, therefore, refers to this topic. The plan is to adopt the proposal for a negotiating position at tomorrow's session and deliver it to the National Assembly. We, as the Committee on European Integration, have already scheduled a meeting, based on our resolution, as we do, with representatives of the EU National Convention, as well as a session of the Committee on European Integration, at which we will consider this negotiating position so that the government will finalise it at session 28 and that it can be sent to Brussels. So it's important that these changes, that these changes will officially, in two days' time, bring our excise policy into line with this issue. In principle, the Committee on European Integration supported these proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7006	Thank you. National MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7007	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow Members, we were on the committee yesterday considering amendments and additions to the laws relating to strong drinks and what is most important to say that taxation of strong drinks means, since 2013, from 1 September when our obligation was to apply this directive until today, it has not been agreed. This means that, however, it has been given to Serbia for some time that it can simply raise its capacity producers in the way possible, but do not forget that we have had economic reforms and fiscal consolidation, and that this is simply the way that the excise adjustment represents an additional income in the very budget of the Republic of Serbia, but also additional costs relating to the producers themselves, which will, in the process of trade with EU countries and if we want to become an integral part of that market, we must be equally competitive, because we have represented one unfair competition, when it comes to brandy and when it comes to drinking at all, which is made on the basis of fruits and certain plants. Why are we saying this, because filling the budget naturally comes from tax on the added value of taxes and contributions paid when it comes to Serbia's economy and business activity and, of course, the part comes from excise duties. Serbia has not been in line with this directive for eight years, and that is what it is, for example, whenever European parliamentarians have had opportunities to co-operate through the EU Association and Stabilisation Committee to tell us that this directive has been since 1992 and that we have not been in line there. We have tried in a certain way to explain to them that by giving three categories in fact drinks and that in 2015, the last amendment, we have had, we have come to a step towards the full application of this directive, and so it has been. Now we have the introduction of this directive, the methodology of reckoning, when it comes to excise. We heard from the promoter and from my colleague that this methodology has so far been through three categories relative to the strength of the alcoholic drink, when it comes to the percentage of alcohol, and from now on it goes to a fixed tax of 42,500 dinars per hectolitre, and the base is calculated on the basis of certain numbers defined by the percentage of alcohol in that. What is important to say, which is that this law requires all manufacturers to make a list of the lagers, completely which remains, unsold and must be submitted to the competent ministry, and we essentially show that we are pursuing European integrations and respect for their standards and directives and in meeting the conditions, Chapter 16, which we will have opportunities here at the Committee's session on Thursday, in the presence of the Minister of Finance to adopt a negotiating position at a closed session, and that is of great importance, which shows that we are actually going to focus on cluster 3 and cluster 4, which is related to competitiveness and inclusive growth, and cluster 4, on the green agenda. All of these laws that we now have, and perhaps in public, represent major changes, and where you see people simply react to these changes, actually represent this European path, which we are constantly talking about, and we need to change on that European path, but we are also going, of course, step by step. The bottom line is that you have a result today, which is what we had yesterday, Mr. Minister, to hear, that with the end of March of the month, the average salary of all international institutions is recognised, of course based on all reports by the relevant institutions in Serbia, the average salary in Serbia is 555 euros. That's what that road is, to raising citizens' standards. This is what we plan to have an average salary in Serbia of 600 euros by 1 January, which is almost twice what we found in 2012, and that is what this European road actually shows us that we have to go through a lot of things that are difficult, for all of us when it comes to certain changes, but I think it is effective and it shows that Serbia is moving forward. I thank you for being as representatives of the ministry in an adequate way all of these changes we make in this financial work, indeed in one realistic way always to explain to us on the committee itself, because it is of great importance that we, first and foremost as MPs, understand this and we can, in direct contact with citizens, explain why we are making certain decisions that are in the interest of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7008	I thank you, the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7009	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the ministry, before us today and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the ID card, which was submitted by the Serbian Government, which was discussed by the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs in principle this morning at the Committee's session. As you can see, and as the minister said, one of the main objectives of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Personal Card Act is the realisation of the Government of Serbia project "Stop Bureaucracies", i.e. the realization of the government's conclusion, which adopted a priority plan for reducing administrative burdens in the Republic of Serbia. If the National Assembly adopts these amendments and complements the Law on the ID card, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can rightly expect a reduction of administrative burdens in the event of loss of the ID card, I would say that citizens will be able to expect the procedure to be cheaper, i.e. it will not be exposed to any additional costs so far. Also, what I would point out as particularly significant is the fact that the ID card will also represent a qualified means of identifying it remotely. The microcontroller, i.e. the ID card chip, will also be included in the certificate, as the minister explained for electronic identification, which will also represent a qualified means of identification at the distance of the mid-level reliability. Only on personal request will qualified certificates for electronic regulation be entered, as well as relevant data for its formation, which will also represent a qualified means of creating an electronic process and electronic identification of a high level of reliability. I am pleased to find that in this way, in the era of digital communication and technology, the Republic of Serbia manages to keep up with trends that, if used in the right way, can greatly facilitate and simplify not only the daily activities of Serbian citizens but also contribute to the greater efficiency of economic operators. I would also like to commend this occasion and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has shown a high degree of seriousness and determination, that through the observed possibilities for amending and supplementing existing legislation they implement into the work of the plans they adopted without leaving them, as it was usually in some ancient times only as a dead letter on paper. Finally, I am convinced that you, as MPs, will have the understanding of all the arguments presented and that in the day of voting, you will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7010	I thank the chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. We're done with committees. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Vice-President of the Muamer Zukorlic National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7011	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Citizens, we have two very important laws ahead of us. As far as the Excise Act is concerned, it is also very important. The truth that it's the very theme of alcohol and alcoholic beverages is very specific to me because of my religious beliefs, so I'm going to step up from discussions on the subject for clear reasons. However, excise matters are not just a matter of those rules that regulate procedures themselves. Excise goods are more interesting than the procedures themselves. Excise goods are always something that was very attractive and interesting for various forms of law violations, including crime itself, or criminals and criminal groups. This is what deserves attention on this occasion as to the need for enhanced interest of a state which is concerned with the subject of crime and the fight against crime and organised crime from the very formation, not only of this government, but also of the previous ones, that is, since this or similar ruling majority came to power, that is, in the opportunity to form a government. So what I am glad about is that on the agenda, the political agenda of this government, the fight against organised crime and overall crime is very important and that all these years it remains so high in the area of the interest of this government, but what I want to draw attention to, what I have pointed out earlier is the need for this fight against crime to actually not only remain at important crime points most often here in the capital, or in Belgrade. However, it often happens that because of this self-focus on the fight against crime, major crime, known crime, etc. here in Belgrade or in the centre of the country itself, very often certain very important criminal groups and individuals are hidden in the shade of certain parts of this country away from the very centre of Belgrade. So it's very important that we don't forget and neglect it, but that the fight against crime and particularly organised crime actually has our attention in all parts of this country. Certainly my testimony and information and awareness of it comes, first of all, because of the end I live in and in which I see it all, knowing that when you talk about crime in your place you actually risk what I and the strangers I lead are very often worshiping - why you talk ugly about your end. So it's one big dilemma when you open up a number of painful topics and painful questions, because you're actually at risk of being reciprocated that way. It is the easiest to cover, cover and hide, however, it is that false friendship and false patriotism. It's like when we were students at school, so now that you're covering up what's wrong or you're not, or you're in it, you're a real friend, you're a real friend, if you don't want to participate in the actions that are forbidden, then you're not good. Also compared to these topics, so if you're quiet then you're a patriot, because you're just talking about your city nice. It's not just when it comes to the local level, I had similar problems in 2010, when I had some kind of reckoning by the regime at the time that we were fighting back, they would talk – you're attacking the state. So, it's not always the government of the states, or individuals who were hiding behind the state at the time, they actually pushed the state to protect them from what they are in the most negative sense. Also on the local level. So talking about it, calling for the rescue of your city, your end of crime does not mean talking negatively about your city, means talking about problems, dangers, diseases, and everything that bothers and threatens that city. True, in a manipulative sense, there is a very thin line and not at all easy to clarify. Despite that risk, however, we do not belong to that common populist rhetoric and politics in which it is most important to subdue to the people, to throw some dust into his eyes with some cheap populist stories and promises, and in fact to support what threatens that city. So that's where we're different. We will remain consistent with politics and discourse where we will point to what is wrong, fight against what is wrong, because we will never agree that the domination of criminals in my city and my end is good for my city and my end and my people, regardless of what we have inherited forms and patterns of behavior and understanding – well, let's wait, that's our man here from the neighborhood, what's wrong with him being rich, what's wrong with him becoming a millionaire, not asking if he's making millions of dollars in taxes, which means citizens, earning corruption, earning various forms of crime, or breaking the law. Of course, what we represent is a difficult road, and it implies that certain blows are taking place precisely from those structures that are related to the criminal and which in this way the accounts are actually broken. So, we'll remain consistent with that. When it comes to excise goods, it's particularly interesting, but not just her, but it needs to be continued with all those topics that we've opened here. We have some information that you've begun certain investigations with customs in Novi Pazar. Since there is a minister here, I would like to draw attention to that strengthening, that the customs in Novi Pazar have been brought to the ground and that these topics should be opened, that it is the Ministry's duty to carry out the audits and to actually expose the crime and criminals who, behold, this customs administration, which is 300km away from Belgrade, actually release, return to the citizens and actually give it the position it needs, because we were fighting, advocated that Novi Pazar would receive customs duty in order to make it easier for small businesses, merchants, producers, to re-compromise the customs of goods in Novi Pazar. However, we now have information that a very small number, a certain number of privileged businessmen, traders, importers can customs goods in Novi Pazar, while all others, who are not in contact with certain structures of local authorities or some other structures of influence, must customs goods, I do not know where, in the King and even in some even more distant places. So that actually means that, after all, the fact that we have a phenomenon that someone has a need to select people where they would customs means that they're hiding something. As soon as one seems available to another, then there is something cloudy about it, and we are actually calling on the Ministry and the competent state authorities to deal with it. It's very simple to expose. There's no big philosophy, it's just a matter of commitment and determination. When it comes to the Law of ID cards, there's a much more comfortable space for discussion. So it's a law that, definitely, here, after a certain experience of 10 years, we have detected certain shortcomings whose removal will actually make it easier just to perform the role, or function of the document, a personal document, a personal identification document called the ID card. In addition to having certain additional information in the ID card that will facilitate the functionality and use of the ID card, which is certainly to welcome and support, as we have read and heard in the explanations, certain procedures will be simplified, making it easier for citizens to resolve the issue of ID card, especially in the event of the loss of this document. Therefore, the very process of extracting or obtaining a new document will be facilitated by this law, as certain other benefits will be obtained by this law, so that the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party in the voting day will support this law. What I want to update on this occasion, and it has a direct connection with the very receipt of documents, including the identity cards themselves, are circumstances, the conditions of certain local authorities of the Ministry of the Interior dealing with this issue. In Novi Pazar, it is already known, I have once again opened this topic, but as long as it is not resolved, as long as this problem is not resolved, we as MPs, the representatives of the people will be able to talk about it and point to it. So, rooms, conditions, technical equipment of the services that issue ID cards, of course including passports and other personal documents, specifically in Novi Pazar, are very bad, very inhuman. So, indeed, since it is a city of over 120,000 inhabitants, these rooms have been serving that purpose for decades. They're very bad, mostly on the surface of those rooms. There's a lot of crowds, waiting, hallways, small rooms. When you add to that a very outdated technique, let's say, just a passport photo or a ID card, it doesn't work out from the first time. You just have to, and you have a choking room that I don't know if it has more than six squares. It usually flies and very, very heated. So the conditions are inhumane. I've personally convinced myself, and besides, I'm receiving permanent complaints and complaints from the citizens. I think the New Market has long matured the situation. I don't know why that idea was mentioned more than once, but it didn't approach? So you need an investment. This is an invitation and a suggestion from the interior ministry -- it takes construction, construction, whatever, at the locale of the police administration in Novi Pazar so these services can breathe normally. When it comes to police administration, it is usually thought of that part of the police dealing with the security of citizens, who are involved in the fight against crime. However, that part of the police administration that deals with service activities related to personal documentation is much more frequent, thank God it's much more frequent than this part of the police dealing with criminals and various other offenders. That's why that part of civil, to say conditionally, is not given enough attention to that part of civil service in the police department. Somehow civil services in the police department are seen as intruders in the police, as something peripheral, as something not important enough. I don't know if it's like that in other parts of the country, but in municipalities and cities where I've been able to communicate, earlier in Tutin, and now in Novi Pazar, including Sjenica and other cities in the area, it's kind of psychologically and organisationally this segment of police administration dealing with civil services has marginalized. He's considered an intruder, some extra. It's important that the police operate in these verticals against crime offenders, traffic arrangements, etc. However, the part about civil service has somehow been marginalized and it has been going on for years. I think it's time, first of all, to change that relationship to a segment or civil service sector in the police administration, to change it at all, but in particular. So here we're talking about a particular situation, where we still have a police department in New Market that has one building, let's say, supposedly decent and we have so-called. Barracks. I don't know if it still exists? So, it still exists in the 21st century at 21st year, he says, in barracks and they're really barracks. It's not some newer barracks, so you can say it's arranged. No, it's, uh, minors, scavengers that aren't worth anything else. Imagine, still the people, let's say, are forced to get used to it, the people who work there. That's what we're waiting for. Sometimes it's mentioned. I remember a decade ago, one of the chiefs of the police department personally informed me of the initiative to build another building on the site, given that there is land space. Then it was good news for us, although in principle building or investing in police is not considered to be a development investment, but regardless, at least we expected this to be easier, that simply these crowds and all the depression you see in these people while they're standing there, waiting, as with these officers, are finally being solved. But here, it's been over a decade since I first had that news, and it didn't happen, and I don't know why. I would ask here and the finance minister, since, here, and as we sit on these boards and various meetings, the most that the ministry mentions is the Ministry of Finance. Whatever is suggested, he says, what will the finance minister say. Of course, that's who has the wallet, it doesn't matter if he decides for himself, we all know that he doesn't decide for himself, but that there is a procedure and a law, but somehow it stands, where the wallet is, no, he doesn't, he doesn't, he doesn't, etc., it's the easiest thing to say. Of course, we MPs are aware that this is not the case and that it is a very delicate function of the Minister and the Ministry of Finance, where all children in the house, in the whole state, are to be fed with limited money, all needs, then compensated, clothed and various, to say, fill in the caves and holes from earlier times left and caused, etc. We're aware of all that, but still, we want to distract ourselves, these are some things that don't make any sense to delay anymore. So, you can come alone, here, be our guests, we'll take a walk, well, just to see. So it's not that it's even better, it's really bad, right? So, barracks for police administration that were some auxiliary facilities 40 years ago, 50 years ago are still office premises. It's not OK, it's not okay, and we have to change it, and that's why we're here to just raise our voice. We're sure that, in fact, this will be given some attention. Maybe it should have been louder in the past few years so it wouldn't have been ignored and forgotten, because there's that too – until the child cries, the mother thinks it's full, that he's good that everything's OK and then he has to, the more often they cry, the more they get what they need. Of course, we're not going to cry, I think we've established a relationship here both in terms of co-operation and in terms of public political communication that we can, in very peaceful circumstances, in fact together detect what are priorities and things like this, which, in themselves, bear witness to the need to react, they speak best of themselves. So what happens when, here, all this work that the government is making to improve the law, all this effort that we are doing as MPs to improve a certain law? So they make certain shifts, a certain improvement in legal quality, but still, this citizen, this citizen, sees the law on the counter, he's got all the law on the counter. So all that we're saying here, it's a more academic story to them, someone's listening, someone's not listening, but the face of the state, the face of the state is a counter. And it's the key and the only, in fact, real communication that the citizen has. That's why we have to make every effort to improve, humanize, edit, actually, this counter that represents the face of the state, the face of the state through which every citizen, every citizen, because this and this whether anyone will look at our Assembly is a matter of will, and the question of whether you will come out or get a ID card, that is not a question of will, there is no citizen who can avoid it. That is why focus is needed, in fact, on this most massive and most original form of communication that happens between the state and citizens, which is also a counter in terms of arrangements both in terms of spatial and in terms of communication and in all other respects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7012	I thank the authorised representative of the party of justice and reconciliation - the United Peasant Party. The minister signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7013	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Zukorlich. Just one brief piece of information, after consulting with Minister Vulin. So, project-technical documentation for the PU building in Novi Pazar is done, is done quickly. It'll be over by the end of the year, so the conditions are being created next year to build and move. So we're working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7014	I thank you for your clarification. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7015	I just wanted to say thank you. I love the good news. It's hard to make good news today in this time of year. And I especially love it when I get good news that's so concrete, that I can bring to the citizens of New Market. Thank you for that. We're waiting for that moment when that problem will begin to resolve itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7016	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7017	Just for a little while. First of all, I thank you for your always exhausting exposure. As far as we can, we are always trying to solve problems all over Serbia, and as you have seen President Vukic, who is constantly traveling and visiting, talks to citizens. It's the basis of our policy. Basically our policy is that there is a man, his need to see a new asphalt, to have a connection to the sewers, to the water, to new schools, to new health institutions, and to have children go to better colleges and then to find a job, to open up a new factory. So, at the time of the crown, at the time of the greatest economic crisis, yes, we do whatever we can. We've never, as you know, had more capital investment than this year. That's the budget rebalance we adopted a few weeks ago, which you voted in. So, of course, as soon as conditions are created, it ends with project-technical documentation, there's no reason why we shouldn't do that, either. It's a free message you can pass on to the citizens of New Market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7018	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the JS parliamentary group, MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7019	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Sinisha Mali with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are here today discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on ID cards. The JS parliamentary group in the voting day will certainly support these legal solutions and these proposals. The ID card is a very important personal document, along with the passport is certainly the most important and logical thing to do is to refresh the Personal Card Act from time to time, to adapt to the needs of today, to the needs of the time in which we live. But what I'm trying to say is that the syntax card is not used just to mark that personal, that personal document. The Syntagma ID in our language is often used to explain someone's biography, someone's life path, someone's achievements, actions, or, as they say today, someone's CV. Of course, it is in the nature of every man to have the wealthiest biography, that is, the richer the ID card, to have his personal map full of works, the data that will remain recorded in the memories of the nearest, but not only the nearest, but also the wider social communities. Certainly, one’s identity cards will be known in mankind as long as mankind exists, because their identity cards are filled with such works and creation as mankind will forever remember. That goes for artists, scientists, researchers, warlords, doctors, professors, but also politicians. For some, numerous works will be entered in the ID card, so that, for example, the late Branko Pesic will always remember and will always have Belgrade's, Gazela, Mostar's loop, 68,000 apartments built. Behind, for example, our colleague Milutin Mrkonjic will remain an expressly restored infrastructure after NATO bombing. After Dragan Markovic Palma, there will be one fully transformed Jagodina, with two industrial zones, 12 foreign investments, with one tourist zone, with numerous tourist facilities and many more. After Alexander Vukic, there will certainly be miles and miles of highways, new clinical centres, hospital coviding, stable economy, in which you have participated, respected ministers, and what we know we respect. So, there are people whose ID card is rich, filled with data. But today I'd like to simply absorb and ask you a question somewhere, ladies and gentlemen, what will remain of Dragan Gilas' personal card? Of course, in Dragan Gilas' personal card, students from the 1992 student protest will remain disappointed. Today, they are 50-year-olds, who make a fair living for themselves and their family, however, disappointed because of these student protests, the only one who won was Dragan Gilas. I remember, there was talk sometime when the 1992 campaign was held, Milan Panic running for President of the Republic and Dragan Djilas supported his campaign and asked his student activists, the meeting was held at the Faculty of Philology, to participate in Milan Panic's campaign by campaigning in its local environments. A year later, news broke among the same student activists that Dragan Gilas was having a party because he earned the first million. You see, that student protest is worth it. The only one who profited was Dragan Gilas. Let me remind you, it's about a time when there was no bread in college dorms, it's about a time when hyperinflation was about 19 and 19,000 percent, when the annual growth of the black rate was about 19,000 percent. When we talk about these high percentages, we see that the wealth of Dragan Gilas of those years of hyperinflation grew at the same percentage as the hyperinflation in Serbia. What will remain in the identity card of Dragan Gilas as head of the National Office of the then President of the Republic of Serbia? Nothing but an affair. What will remain in Dragan Gilas' personal card as minister without portfolio in charge of the National Investment Plan? Nothing but an affair. Even then, Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic, imagine, repeatedly calling him for corruption and affairs. What remains behind Dragan Gilas and what remains behind Dragan Gilas and in his ID card as mayor of Belgrade? Also nothing, except for the affair. Let's count some -- Bus plus, Apex listens to technologists, semi-public competition. In 2008, the U.S. Advans sales, companies, then the city and the mayor gave 68.7 million dinars, which is about 85% of the company's total income. By half of 2012, the city spent 270 million dinars, most of which was set aside for TV production, for their 222 million dinar commercial. For example, in 2009, a software package was purchased, so-called Sap erp for the incredible 9.855,723,44 euros, but never used it and never used it. One of the biggest affairs is certainly financial, as Dragan Gilas, at the time of Belgrade's mayor, owed the city more than 900m euros, half of which the city itself, and half of the public enterprises. To move on, at the time of the mayor, there is Bulevar, there is Požeska, privatisation of the "Luke Belgrade", bridge on Ada. All these are the affairs of the then mayor Dragan Gilas who will remain in the man's ID card, but therefore behind Dragan Gilas the businessman remained the whole time, while he was in power, including today, a growing and greater wealth. To this day we have no answer to the simplest and simplest questions, which are - Dragan Gilas, do you really have that money? If you have them, did you pay your taxes? If you paid your taxes, why the money in exotic accounts, or accounts in exotic places and tax havens? What kind of people, the ones surrounding Dragan Gilas, can be seen in the next picture, or in the next pictures. Here you can see the picture taken on Saturday, May 22, on the board of directors. Parties to freedom and justice. Here in the picture, this one is familiar to you, I have already shown it several times, dear fellow MPs, Branislav Radosavljevic. It's that fake Marinick witness she protected by blurring his face and scrambling his voice because he's supposed to be scared. There is Marinika Tepic, Mrs. Lie, Gilassov Pinocchio. And there are two ladies from the board of directors, from Jagodina, whose ID cards are empty, I don't want to mention them, they're not worth saying. Of course, Branislav Radosavljevic's ID card, you know. This is a man who was arrested six times in 2008 and 2009, who was sentenced in 2015, who had been hiding for almost ten years in various places around Serbia and who was first an activist of the Vuk Jeremic party, and then, together with the vice president of the party Vuk Jeremic, moved to Dragan Djilas or resold, whatever. He is an activist of Dragan Gilas' party on Vozdovac. That would be some kind of ID. ID Marinika Tepic. You know, she's been in a lot of parties, from LSV, through the New Party, to the present-day Dragan Gilas party. The woman who signed a request here in the Assembly to vote for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica, a resolution that she wanted to seal, not only for those present here, not only for today's generations living in Serbia, but also for all future generations living in Serbia by that rank and that resolution. Not just that. You know it's a woman who's facelessly lying, who has no scruples, who doesn't have morals, there's not enough low enough to go on just for the sake of creating personal goals and personal tasks, or tasks given to her by Dragan Gilas. Why am I showing you this picture? Marinika said that this man was afraid and that that's why she fogged him and said she was afraid and that's why she had his voice scrambled. This image has been downloaded from the Facebook profile on which they said next to this picture – if Palma asks where we are, we are here on the main board of the Freedom and Justice Party. Look, they're clibbering and laughing. Is that how people are acting when they're scared? Certainly not. He who is afraid to publish on social networks or where he is, is, at least, provoking those about whom they have told the most disgusting and the lowest possible lies in Serbia's political history. As they're afraid, they're probably afraid of those marine fakes too, so-called. stealth witnesses, non-existent witnesses, are probably scared the same way, and are also clibrating and laughing on the party's main board. Why am I showing you this picture, or what does this behavior look like to us? This behavior looks like people who provoke, because they say, I repeat - if Palma asks where we are, tell him we're here on the main SP board, with all this clinking. That wouldn't be terrible if they weren't the people who accused Dragan Markovic of paedophilia. They made the most disgusting and most difficult accusations and lies. I, of course, would never do that, but certainly after such a procedure, I would not be publicly clibrating and provoking myself, and that I also know that I have tried to destroy one man with these lies, so, Dragan Markovic Palm, to destroy his family, to make the life of one city, to all the women in that city, to make the life of one minor who was so low and brazenly abused. What are these pictures saying? They laugh at the face of Palmi and all the citizens of Serbia, the institutions of this state of Serbia and say – we can lie, we can pay individuals, institutions, the state of Serbia and all citizens, and we don't care about it, we continue to laugh at your face, because our values are not honor or morals, honesty, truth, our only value is our own personal interest, and there is no such limit of decency, honor, morality, truth that we won't tread upon your face, and only to achieve our own goal, and that's our personal interest. Just to tell you, Dragan Markovic invited Palma to the duel and Dragan Djilas and Marinik Tepic, on their television, and they refused the duel. Why did they say no? Why can't they face Dragan Markovic Palm in public on TV? Why not allow Serbian citizens to hear the real truth, but only their lies on certain televisions and in certain media? Of course, Dragan Markovic Palma called for a polygraph, both of them, to go together, a polygraph may not be some proof, legal and judicial, but we certainly call it a different and lie detector, so let's see who's lying and who's telling the truth, that Serbian citizens are hearing the truth, because Serbian citizens deserve the truth. Here's another picture they posted with a comment - Hello Palmi from the demolition team. Also, Saturday, 22nd, the party's main committee, Dragan Gilas. They don't even hide what their ultimate goal is. They say to themselves they're a demolition team, although frankly, they don't act like some people who can tear something down. Their wish is to bring down Dragan Markovic and Aleksandr Vukic. It's not all questionable. But their ultimate goal isn't that. Their ultimate goal is Serbia on its knees, destroying Serbia, traditions, faith, culture, and all that by giving the most disgusting and the lowest lies about the people they are fighting and who love their people. I'm on issues today, and I said it's not a disputed political struggle, it's disputed that it's going to be personal, it's controversial that the family, being touched by children, is used by the ugliest and most brazen lies. That's controversial. Tom has to get in the way once and for all. It can't be the ideology of "mani, mani, mani" and for the sake of that ideology to use ama all the low and vile means. Ideology "mani, mani, mani" didn't do anyone any good, and neither will they. They won't be able to lie incessantly. It won't work. We will banish this to the end, because these are people without honor and morality and those people without honor and morality will never be able to lead Serbia. Serbian citizens see it, Serbian citizens know it, and Serbian citizens do not support it and will never support it. Serbia is a state in which the institutions of the state do their work and we will go through the institutions of the state to the end, we will not give up until we have these Pharisees removed. We won't stop until they get where they belong, and their place is in jail. That's why we filed charges, which is why Dragan Markovic Palma filed charges against Marinika Tepic and Branislav Radoslavjevic and all those who lied, until they filed charges against Dragan Markovic Palma and they were not allowed to do so and they should never do so, because they know they are lying and they can answer for false reporting, but we will not give up. We respect the institutions of the system. Serbia has judicial institutions. Neither the prosecutor's office nor Marinika Tepic, nor Dragan Dilas, nor other Pharisees of the Serbian political scene. Serbia has its own prosecution, has its own police, has its own judiciary and judicial authorities and courts, and we will push justice through these institutions and through the courts and our lawsuits. And this is not only justice for Dragan Markovic Palm, and it is not only justice for the citizens of Serbia, we are also looking for justice for Gilas, or for the justice of Gilas' wife and her father-in-law, because they deserve that justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7020	I thank the deputy president of the Single Serbia Group. The president of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Branimir Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7021	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of ministries, colleagues and colleagues, we passed the sessions, in fact, adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business a few days ago. Today, when we discuss amendments and additions to the Law on the ID card, we only thus comply with the provisions of these two laws. Article 8 of the applicable Personal Card Act will change and, on the basis of the changes, it will be possible to enroll in a microcontroller or, as we call it, the electronic identification certificate chip. In this way, the ID card will be qualified for distance identification and access to electronic identification schemes. Also, any citizen or one who engages in certain economic activities, whoever wishes, will also be able to be enrolled in a qualified electronic signature certificate thus providing a higher level of security when we talk about this type of business. What does that mean specifically in practice? Anyone who was so far interested in dealing with some kind of electronic business and who was interested in electronic signature, electronic stamp and any other form of electronic business could only become a service user with a personal presence or with a public identification at a distance. Now, by adopting amendments and additions to the laws and harmonisation of the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Documentation and Trust Services in Electronic Business, we offer a new solution, a much simpler solution. Namely, our citizens who live and work abroad, but also foreign citizens, can in this way take out a certificate from the Serbian service provider and use it to access e-Government services, as well as all other activities concerning electronic business. Also, our citizens abroad can use electronic identification schemes from a list published by the European Commission and thus have access to electronic services in Serbia. Of course, all that's possible. Our legal framework is in line with the legislation of the EU member states and it is possible to recognise the electronic identification scheme from the European Commission list, as I mentioned earlier. Also, conditions have been created to establish the so-called. The knot and it will allow systems from different countries to be compatible and work in concert and that gives us one great basis for further progress when we talk about cross-border co-operation. I am looking at all of this in the context of the modernisation of public administration and this involves simpler procedures, easier access and safer access for citizens to services in the field of public administration. Also, everyone forward in this area is in line, as the minister said earlier, with the Government's "Stop Bureau". Why am I saying this? Because today in the world, it is offensive to think that the bureaucratic disease of modern society is, and it seems to me, even when this word was forged that it was in some negative context. Unfortunately, public administration is often used as a synonym for bureaucracy and is brought into a negative context and the challenge for all countries of the world is how to simplify procedures. One study in the United States showed how much large bureaucracy can negatively affect the economy. In particular, the study covered the resin business administration and during research it was estimated that in America the annual costs of $1.75 billion were on bureaucratic matters, let's say. It is money being poured into one bureaucratic procedure, and yet on the other hand, according to the World Bank report, if we take the criterion of ease of business, the United States is among the 10 most developed countries in the world. Then we can imagine what it's like in other countries of the world where there's an inefficient government or where there's a massive bureaucratic apparatus and what costs are at stake. This is why it is important that we have a serious approach to public reform in the right and it is a complex, continuous and long-term process. It is necessary for electronic administration to be applied in full capacity, i.e. to live fully, and this will certainly bring about concrete changes because electronic services change the way public administration works and therefore also citizens are always more satisfied with each new innovation. Public services are also established to meet certain needs of general interest, whether we are talking about an individual, whether we are talking about economic operators. It is therefore important to reform the public administration in order to function all priority actions. I also think about health care, education, and culture, as well as those actions they aim to improve certain industries. When we talk about efficient public administrations in the world we need to know that they've been building their system for centuries, they haven't built it just like that, all of a sudden. The process used to go slower, it used to go faster, but I'm going to say a few examples where really public administrations in all countries of the world that function successfully set certain quality standards and do not stop at them, but are constantly working to improve and continue in this direction day and day. In Eastern European countries, there have been such examples that some countries have been engaged in public administration reform for two decades to reach those standards that apply to developed European democracies. When they entered this process that was not easy and did not last for a while they stood side by side with one developed system, such as Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, not to count further. We are also on this one road and we have set a clear goal before us, and that is that public service must be in the function of all citizens. I'll give you examples and New Zealand. An interesting approach to public administration reform was when they conducted one research in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The result of this survey showed that citizens want a fair public administration that provides services to all citizens. On these assumptions, a reformed system of public administration was reformed in a quick and efficient way. In France, for example, the last major public administration reform took place just over three decades ago. They came from another assumption. Namely, they took the work of private companies for rapper. As private companies need them to adapt to the market, to adapt to the environment, to transform, as it was very important for them to meet the needs of citizens, they also put the concept on public administration reform. Now we in France have one public administration, one administration that listens daily to the voice of citizens, who cares about the quality of services and is created just as a public service. Of course, when, or people who are employed in that state system are subjected to the ongoing education process in order to acquire new knowledge and skills. We must not allow public officials to be in one job, to carry out their work indifferently until retirement. Anyone who works responsibly and who is worthy should be adequately rewarded, in accordance with their capabilities, in accordance with their results, and it is necessary to continuously assess the work of the state administration and address shortcomings in walking. The reform of the public administration is in a way also a reform of the state, as it changes its organisation and functioning. Public administration is one of the pillars, i.e. the most significant pillars of the state when we talk about the establishment of the rule of law and as such makes a significant contribution to curbing corruption. Only strong, training and efficient state administration can provide citizens and economic operators with quality services at reasonable costs. The public administration must be economical, and citizens must have insight into how money is spent, because simply by paying taxes, they finance, through the budget, the work of the public administration. Serbia has made a lot of efforts in modernising the work of the public administration in the previous period. The development of digitisation in the Republic of Serbia and its importance are best witnessed by the mass immunisation process. We could see that in the months behind us and the citizens were using the eGovernment service in the easiest way possible to identify which vaccine they wanted to choose, i.e. by choosing the desired vaccine, they were easily informed about where immunization would be done, the time when immunisation would be carried out, and many world media were reporting on this kind of good organization. With this in mind, it is important to point out that, at this stage of the public administration's progress, Serbia has allowed citizens to take over digital green certificates from 12 May through the national e-government portal, i.e. confirmation of vaccination against the Kovid virus 19. This certificate contains a qualified electronic seal that I was just talking about and that's one of the highest degree of protection, that can't be falsified, that can't be misused. The certificate will facilitate travel for our citizens, the official will have the necessary information by simply scanning the kuar-code. Of course, the SDPS always supports such reform processes, supports any modernisation of public administration that will benefit Serbian citizens and we hope that the public sector will continue to develop in the same direction. Again to go back and say that the Korona epidemic has brought a serious crisis on a global scale, but it has also been a boost to many administrations in the world and a challenge, as well as to Serbia to organise work. The work of the house we were forced into as a society was one of the really biggest challenges in Serbia, thanks to the innovations that we introduced into our system, it was successfully organised. It is important to stress that even before the epidemic, the Republic of Serbia has achieved the enviable results of the modernisation of public administration. The established register registers in electronic form, simplified and digitised many administrative procedures and a one-stop-shop system was introduced. The success in this area has been achieved thanks in particular to the efficient exchange of data between public officials. When I talk about it, I must point out that in June of this month, it will be four years after an electronic system has been introduced for the exchange of data from official records, known as the eZUP system, which represents a kind of turning point in the development of public administration, i.e. public administration. We have thus shifted from bureaucratic to a user-oriented model that is in the function of all Serbian citizens. Public administration authorities have made more than 20 million use of the benefits of this system for less than four years of the existence of this electronic data exchange system. Also, the public administration sector saved thousands of hours of waiting for citizens in line for just half a year of using the eZUP application, and the state over 20 million dinars, which would be spent on printing paper. I have to point out another result that was achieved in the previous period, which is the introduction of the Central Population Register and that represents one unique database. It used to be someone who was born for example. in New Vienna, and lives in Piroth, had to either have friends in New Vienna or go there personally to draw confidence in citizenship. Now this is much simpler and this is exactly what the Central Population Register, which combines data on citizens from 13 different official records, run by different institutions. Therefore, the register of books of origin, citizenship records, records of citizens’ home numbers, etc. The aim and advantages of setting up this register are to effectively manage administrative and other procedures and officials of those authorities only by one click can quickly and free of charge access to the data contained in this database. There is no cost of either party in the process, because they no longer have to waste time or money to obtain different evidence. Of course, data from this database is also needed to be accurate, so it is also possible for citizens to access their data via e-Government and, if something is not true, to suggest that these data are correct in time. There's also a law on excise duties on the agenda. Of course, as the predecessors said before me, that is to agree with EU legislation, the SDPS will also support this proposal, because we are also as a party and Serbia as a country committed to EU accession in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7022	I thank the president of the SDPS parliamentary group. The word has the mandated representative of the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P", MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7023	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have two important laws that regulate some day-to-day issues that matter to the citizens of Serbia. First of all, it is a proposal to amend and supplement the Act on Excises and a bill on amendments to the existing Act on the ID card. At the very beginning, let me say that the PUPS-3P parliamentary group in the voting day will support these legal solutions that have been defined through changes and additions to these proposals. The first item of today's agenda refers to amendments to the existing Excise Act. This law needs to be amended to bring our legislation into line in this area with the European Union's legal assets. As we know, our strategic direction of accession to the European Union, we must bring part of this legislation in line with European Union legislation. This part has been changed in a way that changes itself in the way of calculating the excise duty, so that it will no longer be calculated per litre of the product, but by the volume of alcohol in a litre, or by the strength of a certain drink. Another important difference is that the existing difference will be deleted based on the types of raw materials used to obtain an alcoholic product, because so far the solutions to the rules are that difference. This new solution, unfortunately, is likely to lead to a somewhat smaller purchase of domestic alcoholic beverages, and above all I mean brandy, but therefore there is a possibility that the cheap side of alcoholic beverages, and it is important to note that these changes will not affect the price of drinks that do not fall into strong alcoholic beverages. So, by harmonising that legal framework, we are obliged to make amendments to that law. The second law that's on the agenda today, it's the I.D. Act. The proposal for this ID bill brings some newspapers that will be of significant benefit to our citizens. First of all, there are new provisions that need to be complemented by the existing text of the law in the work relating to the possibility that the ID card with the chip, based on the Law on the Electronic Document, which we have already voted on, will now be entered and certified for electronic identification, allowing the already existing electronic signature to be obtained online, without going to the police station. In previous legal solutions, this has been ensured by having to go to a police station, and we ourselves know what the conditions and technical and crowds are, so that this change will contribute to a more efficient work, or more efficient solution to these needs of our fellow citizens who have electronic signatures. Certainly, it will be a significant relief for our citizens who, in their work on computers, meet the need to have this signature for a faster, easier job out of their professions. But it will be more and more useful to ordinary citizens in the use of electronic banking and electronic trade services, which will certainly be our ever-increasing reality. Also, there are some amendments to the bill that should further facilitate the procedure for issuing ID cards, such as those for minors. Now, the consent to a request for an I.D. is only given by one parent, which will facilitate the extraction of these documents for our youngest citizens, especially those whose parents do not live together, and we are witnessing that these days are increasingly cases of separated parents and children living with one of the parents. The latest amendment is that of the current Article 23rd, where it is predicted that the advertising of ID cards will be missing in the process of repealing them in the future on the official website of the Ministry of the Interior, not in the printed "Official Messenger" and will be done without compensation. This solution is certainly good, because on the one hand it goes to the benefit of citizens who have lost their ID card, and on the other hand, the state once again shows its commitment to facilitate and shorten administrative procedures wherever possible. Here I'd like to express my dilemma about one thing in practice. The fact is that whoever follows more closely the publication of the "officer" that there are regular ads about the indifference of a large number of ID cards, which goes even up to hundreds after a number of "Official Messengers". With all the understanding for those who really lose, fortitudes or are stolen documents, which probably has happened to many of us in life, it seems that this number of missing documents can hardly be the sole fruit of someone's carelessness. I would say that there is certainly an unwarranted number of cases where these ID cards are reported missing for later counterfeiting or use for illegal purposes. I don't know if the Ministry of the Interior has any wider knowledge of this, but I'm just afraid there's a possibility that with this extra relief procedure we don't make one rise in the number of fictitious disappearances of ID cards. This should certainly be taken into account in the future, especially in the context of these other amendments on electronic certificates and signatures. I would also like to make clear the changes related to the existing Article 7(2), which provides for the addition of a new point 7 to the part which provides for mandatory elements in the form of the identity card as regards the addition of the address of the registered residence. As is known, this address was entered on the back of the ID card only to those citizens who were identified for extracting this document without a chip, while those who wanted a ID card with a chip address would be typed electronically into the chip itself. I have a card with a chip and no address, and I don't need to change my residence, but this new solution is also required to write the address on the back. In practical application, this would mean that a card without a chip has to be changed every time a citizen changes residence, while the address in the cards with the chip would be changed electronically, so the citizens who have such a document were deprived of new costs. However, since the address of the residence is now added as a mandatory part of the form of the identity card, I am interested in whether it means that the owners of the identity cards with the chip will have to change these identity cards in the future during each change of residence or that their conveniences will remain the same as so far, which have the registered residence and address on their personal card, and have a chipped ID card, that they will not need to change their personal effects when changing their residence. These are basic questions and dilemmas, and people are interested in that, so I'd like to get an answer to what exactly is predicted and thought. Since we consider it to be good legal proposals, the PUPS-3P parliamentary group will give its support for their adoption and for the adoption of these amendments and additions in the voting day. Also, the PUPS-3P parliamentary group will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session in the voting day. Dear friends, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7024	I thank the authorised representative of the PUPS-3P parliamentary group. The minister will answer you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7025	Dear MPs, Mr Stosic, so just briefly to clarify what is important for the citizens of Serbia. By changing your residence, you do not change your identity card, the card chip registers the residence and becomes important information when it comes to the identity card as you have information about the name, last name, etc. By changing your residence, you have to report a new residence. So now you're just not going to have those paper clips if you remember what it looks like, but in the card chip itself, you're going to change it, or that data, so there's no need to change your ID cards. Exactly the whole system and the change of laws is so designed that you do the things that you now do and you need both time and power and energy and money at the end of the day by changing this law to do much more effectively and much easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7026	Thank you. Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7027	I thank you, Mr. Minister. My dilemma was because in the form of a new ID card in the proposal is also the address of the residence, so I was also in a dilemma, and people are asking me if it means that since it already exists in the residence form, whether or not it will be necessary to change the identity card, but your explanation points to it, means that all of this will be solved by electronic means of the chip, regardless of what will be the residence in the written part of the ID card on the back. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7028	Thank you. Authorised representative of the parliamentary group Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, MP Nandor Kish.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7029	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr Minister, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to stress that the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians in the voting day will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law amending the Excise Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card. In the SVM, we believe that it is essential for national minorities to be allowed because they have the right to use their language and their letter, which is why we have repeatedly represented the creation of legal opportunities in previous years, the exercise of this right in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to present a few examples. In 2007, the U.S. The SVM has submitted an amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Travel Documents, which reads in the formats of travel documents and visas, to be entered in the original form as entered in the copy of the birth certificate, i.e. the authority responsible for issuing travel documents and visas, shall be obliged to provide technical opportunities for the recording of the names and names of members of national minorities in the original form according to the language and the spelling of members of the national minority. According to Article 79(1), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, members of national minorities, shall have the right to use their name and last name in their own language, and in accordance with Article 19(1). The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, members of national minorities, have the right to free choice and to use the personal name and name of their children, as well as to enroll these personal names in all public documents, official records and personal data collections according to the language and spelling of members of the national minority. The next example is from 2009, then SVM MPs submitted an amendment to the Bill on Parent Books, in order to simplify the interpretation of the law, given that it is the unequivocal intention of the promoter to establish a single system and practice that would allow members of national minorities to use their constitutional right to use their names and last names in the original form. In 2018, we submitted an amendment to the same law, which reads – the birth certificate contains information about nationality. The reason for the submission of the amendment is to comply with Article 79. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that one of the rights to preserve the speciality of members of national minorities and the right to enter data on the nationality of the official record and the personal data collection. The Action Plan for the exercise of the rights of national minorities in Chapter 1 provides for changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities in order to regulate the right to enter data on the national membership of national minorities in public documents, official records, personal data collections in accordance with the constitutional principle of free expression of nationality. It is not a question of the assessment of the competent authority whether it will enter in the birth certificate information on nationality, but whether it is the right of members of the national minority to comply with the requirement of a similar freedom of expression of national membership laid down in Article 47. The Constitution. The most visible and important goal we have achieved and in which we can every day make sure that the person who is a member of the national minority can have his name written in a personal card on the language and by the spelling of his native language. Of course, as far as practice goes, this didn't go smoothly at first, but after the first difficulties, I can say that in the last ten years without any major problems, any citizen of the Republic of Serbia may have his name written in a document in the language and letter of his nationality if that language is in official use. From personal experience, I can say that my name is kept in Hungarian and Hungarian spelling in the parent book. So I could get a travel document with a name written according to Hungarian spelling. As another positive example, he would point out that our members of the SVM parliamentary group have been printed in Hungarian and Hungarian spelling on the parliamentary card. The official use of language is a daily topic for members of a national minority whose language is officially used at the level of the Republic of Serbia in the AP Vojvodina, as well as in various municipalities. In theory, we are very successful in using the language of national minorities. In the case of keeping documentation and letters we are a little further from the desired state, but I hope that using the central database we can provide the possibility of using the language of national minorities not only in education, but also in various public enterprises, courts and so on. We encourage the directors and presidents of these institutions to employ members of national minorities living in municipalities where other languages are officially used besides the Serbian language, as well as to ensure that a citizen communicates and conducts procedures with public institutions and businesses in his own language. I honestly think that there is the capacity to lead these procedures and letters in the languages of national minorities because they have the right to do so. As for the technical changes and additions to the laws that lie ahead, we certainly support steps from all the simplified use and issue of the ID card. As part of the Government of Serbia project – Stop Bureaucracies, we think that the following steps listed in the Bill's proposal are very useful, such as harmonising with the rules on electronic documents, electronic identification and services, from checking in electronic business and changing provisions according to which only one parent is sufficient when issuing a card to a minor over 16 years of age. These changes aim to free citizens of the Republic of Serbia from excess bureaucracy and facilitate the use of ID during electronic identification. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the SVM parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7030	(Speaks in Hungarian) I thank the People's MP Nandor Kish. The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7031	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, Mrs Kovac, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Well, colleagues before me have said a lot, so it seems impossible for me to do some things over and over again during the presentation, when we're talking specifically about a bill on amendments and additions to the I.D. Act, but I'm going to try to say maybe something new. So, the identity card is a public document to which citizens of the Republic of Serbia, above all, prove their identity and serve as evidence of other facts about the owner, which are contained in it. If this is determined by an international contract, the identity card serves among other things as a travel document. It is an opportunity to perhaps remind ourselves of the history of the ID card, as documents of the identification of the citizens of a state. Namely, the first law on personal documents can be considered a 1414 law on safe conduct, which was passed by King Henry V Lancaster. However, the ID card, as a document, was not much more used until the beginning of the 20th century, when photographs became part of identification documents, in order to facilitate the identification of the owner above all. The format, content and size of the ID card, as a personal identification document, was not standardised until 1985, using ISO standards. According to earlier regulations, as colleagues spoke of, among other things, the identity card that was in force in Serbia, the obligation to own a card was acquired by age 18, while under the current law, this obligation comes from 16 years old, so at the age of an elderly minor, to express myself more precisely. Getting a ID is a kind of sign of maturity, a sign that a citizen becomes visible and accountable to the law for his actions. For those who get their first ID card, it is an honor, and for the state, the identity card is a document of responsibility and of easyness, above all, of identity verification. In Serbia, unfortunately, there are still invisible citizens without ID. It is not, I'm sure, a large number of citizens, but certainly there are and certainly it is the task of the authorities to recognise and introduce such citizens into public records so that these citizens can exercise civil and other rights in this country. It's mostly some vulnerable groups that live without identity and system that are simply unable to identify them. Today's ID card, as a personal identification document, is modernised and according to the achievements in the field of electronic communications, and identification is facilitated by using JMBG, which is the mandatory content of the digital ID card. The digital era, therefore, has brought first electronic identity documents, i.e. biometric ID cards, because the rapid identification of citizens is important for modern society, both because of the benefits it has per citizen in the exercise of its rights and for the state itself, or the state authorities, which now have a reliable identification document, whose introduction reduces the possibility of counterfeiting and abuse, above all this document. It provides reliable and safe identification of the owner, so that the owner can no moment deny his identity or use another person's identity. It is very important that the system of making electronic ID cards enables the protection of data integrity contained in the ID card and protects the confidentiality of identity data. Otherwise, the applicable ID law was adopted in 2006, then Serbia adopted a new legislation in this area after more than 30 years and thus created the necessary legal assumptions to introduce a new, modern, functional electronic identification document. The law has been amended several times, first because of the extension of the deadline for changes in old ID cards. Such extensions were necessary, because the citizens at the beginning were very slow and with a lot of skepticism, I must tell you, they accepted a new electronic ID card, especially the one with the chip, because there's always some conspiracy theory in our Serbs. But we do know that it was the first electronic document that was, in some ways, the predominant of electronic communications and digitisation in the sphere of public documents, that was, in some ways, understood slowly acceptable, i.e. the acceptance of such a newspaper. That is why the process of replacing ID cards went one way slower, gradually and at a time when the current president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, performed that function, for these very reasons, amended the law on the ID card, in order to allow citizens to replace the old ID card in an additional period of time, with a new biometric document. By introducing a new modern ID card, we've implemented compliance with world standards, which is of great importance. The second thing, due to the content of the data, took over the function of the primary identification document, which is a assumption for the issue of other secondary identification documents, such as travel documents, passports, driver's license, armed list, and many others. To remind you that an electronic ID card can be issued with a chip and no chips. One of the significant advantages of introducing documents, with a chip, is the creation of a kind of dynamic document, on which changes of certain data can be made very easily, without new printing, without destroying or issuing another form. Then, when it comes to public administration, and this has already been said, there is no more copying personal data from the personal card into the computer, but they are automatically transferred, which, in addition to speeding up all procedures, eliminates the possibility of error, in the data transfer itself. If it is borne in mind that in front of other authorities and other organisations, such as banks, each citizen annually carries out hundreds of procedures and procedures in which the previous conditions are, above all, identification, then it is aware that, with a biometric ID card, each procedure is accelerated further. The quality of services and public administration procedures is one of the most important factors in the quality of life of citizens, and the competitiveness of the economy. So far in this house, we have had many times on the agenda draft regulations, which implement a digital agenda, that is, modernising public administrations, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has set as one of the priorities, with the aim of making public administration a truly efficient service for Serbian citizens. I would like to remind you that this process began with the application of the e-government law, adopted in 2018, and the effects of this law are today felt by all and by the citizens, but the effects of this law, what is far more important, also by the economy, besides the citizens. It enables the safe use of modern information and communication technologies, which facilitates and accelerates the communication of citizens with the public sector, but also communication and exchange of documents between different state services. This law has contributed to reducing administrative costs, as well as increasing legal certainty, and above all transparency in work. Why am I bringing this up? It is precisely because the objective of the change and supplementation that we are talking about today is part of the realisation of the government's project, which was a matter of few words, and which was spoken by the minister, which is the stop of BIROKRATIJI, which was created, in order to reduce administrative and bureaucratic barriers in the communication of public administration with citizens, businesses, and in mutual communication between, above all, state institutions. By realising the measures from this project, we will come up with simpler procedures, which mean saving time and money to citizens and businesses, but also saving money and the state. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on the ID card, concrete solutions are further advanced to achieve the goals of digitisation, as the necessity of the 21st century, which is unimaginable without the use of digital technologies, in any sphere of society. In particular, with the proposed changes and additions, which was just said by counterpart Stosic, it seems to me that in the event of a loss of ID, citizens will not have to advertise it invalidly in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, but it will be enough to publish the fact on the MUP site, and thus significantly reduce administrative costs, costs for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, speed up the process of obtaining a new document. Also, this proposal brings together the laws on electronic documents and e-commerce, which is the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business, which we were just talking about here in the assembly debate at the previous session, i.e. at the previous session. It also edits the electronic signature, electronic seal, time stamp, electronic delivery and electronic document keeping. The Assembly also adopted other regulations that allow electronic documents to be recognised, as well as paper, more specifically, electronic documents to be replaced by paper, these are the Law on Electronic Document, the Law on Electronic Trade, but, of course, the Law on electronic invoices. Amendments and additions to the ID Act enable citizens to sign the documents electronically by using a digital certificate in a qualified electronic signature, which is incorporated into this personal document, i.e. the chip, at the request of the holder of the ID card. The qualified electronic signature is the legal equivalent of a handwritten signature, and thus using certificates contained in the new ID card, citizens will be able to communicate, first of all, with public administration to confirm their identity and sign the document without arrival and without waiting on the counter, so no more of those counter traffic. This means that by using an identification certificate, citizens can prove identity without physical presence, or when accessing electronic services. Also, using a qualified electronic signature, a citizen can sign the document electronically when he is unable to do so by hand. Using an electronic signed document except for citizens is important for the institutions themselves. All official documentation will be able to be exchanged electronically between institutions precisely in the form of electronic documents and this is very important, signed by electronic signature that allows for more efficient communication without paperwork, which is, again, the most important. This means that citizens can submit all documents electronically in the same legally valid way. The verified electronic identity available to all citizens is necessary to enable the full potential of the digital economy. Digitalisation, as I have already said, is one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and one of the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, both these and previous and the effects of the digitalisation of our societies so far, already give significant results, as well as the quality of public services in education, in health, which has been particularly reflected during the Kovid-19 pandemic, and new rules from the domain of electronic business will contribute to the competitiveness of the labour market and attractive business environment. A transparent and modern administration is key to sustainable economic growth and development. It is the opinion of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group. Thanks to digitisation, the introduction of electronic administrations and citizens and businesses saved hundreds of millions of dinars. Other changes and additions provide for the addition of data contained in the form of a ID card. Amendments to the law shall be accompanied by information on the address of the registered residence. Another important change relates to a provision that found that every Serbian citizen over 16 years of age has the right and the duty to have a ID card. In this sense, the great relief for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, above all for parents, is that the amendments to the law provide for the issue of a juvenile person over 16 years of age to be sufficient for the consent of only one parent, regardless of whether the other parent is exercising parental law. And that's what we're talking about. It's hard not to repeat things that are important, which are the content of these changes and additions. Given the importance of the ID card as identification documents, it is important that each change contributes, first of all, to the disabling of counterfeits and abuses, but also to the protection of personality data, which is the highest degree of protection owned by an electronic ID card in Serbia right now. Of course, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support these changes and additions, as it certainly will contribute to the overall modernisation of the new ID card, to the overall efficiency of the work of state authorities, local self-government and public services, above all. When it comes to the second legislative proposal currently under discussion, therefore amending the Excise Act, excise duties are a special type of tax, on the consumption of a particular group of luxury products, excise products are alcoholic beverages, coffee, tobacco products and petroleum products, all excise products, other than beer, must be marked with excise stamps which are a kind of control mechanism which is accompanied by the placing on the market of excise goods. Accizes represent a significant and very secure budget revenue due to the prescribed way of harvesting. The amendments to the excise laws that are before us represent compliance with EU rules. So here is another confirmation of the determination and determination of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to European integration and when it comes to the path that Serbia is leading and when it comes to the strategic goal and one of the main foreign policy objectives Serbia wants to achieve, which is full membership of the Republic of Serbia in the EU. In the field of excise policy applied to alcoholic beverages, therefore, we are specifically speaking here, namely, now under our Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks, there are three groups of these drinks on which excises are calculated according to different models, which is not in line with EU directives, the way in which the excise duties on alcoholic beverages are calculated in our country is not in accordance with Article 37. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which was signed in 2008, by Serbia with European communities and concerns the ban on fiscal discrimination under the European excise model proposed by amendments to the Excise Act, the excise duty on strong alcoholic beverages will be calculated on a hectolitre of pure alcohol present in strong alcoholic beverages, which is what the minister also spoke of in the opening presentation. Therefore, the basis for calculating excise duty will be the percentage of alcohol present in certain alcoholic beverages, not raw materials from which alcohol is produced. This new way of calculating excise duty refers to strong alcoholic beverages, while the method of calculating the excise duty on beer and low alcoholic beverages containing 0.2 to 15% alcohol per litre will remain the same and will be calculated per litre of drinks, as so far. Since I also see representatives of the MUP, I think these amendments and additions to the Excise Act will also contribute to the specific work of the MUP, when we talk about alcoholic beverages, when we talk about what happens to the excessive use of alcoholic beverages, unfortunately. Finally, I would like to say that the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7032	Thank you. For our children, the MP, Gjorge Komlenski, has the power to represent the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7033	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable ministers and associates, above all when we talk about amendments and additions to the I.D. Act, we need to seriously consider what's the reason we're talking about this today. It's just amazing that since 2006, when the Personal Card Act was passed, when new ID cards were introduced with a chip or no chip, when there was a serious dilemma about whether there was a possibility of using the data contained in the chip, what will be entered, and what will not be recorded, to this day no one has responded to one very serious thing. It is the obligation to enter the true data into the identity card itself. One of the important things that determines many things in our life is residence. Whether it is inscribed in the chip itself or written on the back of the ID card is less important, it was more psychologically important to enable these two different options to be easily skipped from those old machines of typed ID cards to digital data. But it's just amazing that no one has responded to something that is a serious problem in legal traffic, which is the lack of sanctions and obligation of one who changes his residence in order to do so in time and neatly in front of the authorities of the MUP, and that change is entered into the ID card, whether through the entry of data into the chip, which is far simpler, by issuing a new ID card, it's completely irrelevant. Even in force in Article 19 of the Law, which remains in force, it is prescribed that the holder of the ID card cannot use a ID card in which not all data are given correctly and truthfully. On the other hand, there was an obvious failure that there was no sanctions unless you changed your residence, and you really changed it. And so, today, the reason is to make one addition to Article 7 where in the ID card as a public correction, where all of us as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, above all, prove our identity, and the identity of the personal card containing data and facts that are important for the functioning of both us and the state, add a new position 7 where it must be entered as mandatory data and address of the registered residence. It was very fortunate that there was a good momentum and good habit of our citizens from an earlier period, which is to be responsible for their country and that when they changed their residence, they were going and doing so at the police station even those who are aware that it simply could not suffer some direct and direct sanction by them, because by law it was not the address of the registered residence mandatory, the true element in a form that consisted of a personal card and that's good. But where did this one-sided laziness of ours get us? She put us in a position that because we cannot exercise our rights to the authorities of the administration, because on the basis of the ID information, our residence is determined and some rights arising from the registered residence and the place where we live. The state authorities had a problem finding us at the appropriate addresses, and then we spread a huge amount of dissatisfaction that came after the amendments and the addition of the law on enforcement and security. The public executioner’s obligation to deliver a decision on the execution of the person concerned has ceased. They are obliged to try and, if the conclusion or solution is returned unannounced, that the person is unknown at the given address, and it is addressed to the address at which he is officially being held, in which the residence is registered, although his actual residence is not there, the party in the proceedings has lost some of its procedural rights, which is to make an objection, which has been established many times, because we know that many of our public enterprises in earlier periods have submitted proposals for the execution of the untimely, so that they object to the limitations of the claims that would have been adopted simply for these reasons were not possible. Since we're not always correct, it was someone else's fault, not us and our lazyness. Where there was further problems, I hope that this law will be implemented much better, is when it comes to renting apartments. The clear interest of this country is to keep an accurate record of where the person has the residence. By now, it is likely that the tenants have realized that if they do not follow if someone who lived at their home has changed their residence and moved to another address in the meantime, they may have problems if a proposal for execution has arrived because of some of his debts. As they end up in court disputes with public executioners and prove that this person does not live in that address more or less of the problems and costs have all been incurred. So this law will simply make us far more responsible to the state, but also to ourselves, because simply some of the things that could have stayed as a clouded space because someone had no interest in the lack of this provision since 2006 to this day are being completely eliminated. What this law complements is a very good thing, which is that we're going to reduce the number of these plastic cards that we're going to have to carry with us. Using a chip that already exists on a valid ID card and entering an electronic signature and the ability to identify an electronic signature through this unique object allows us to simplify ourselves and life and function and the amount of plastic we carry with us. What has to be done further is when a wide range of electronic signatures are made possible, it is that communication between the Ministry of Interior and citizens in those administrative procedures, in requests to issue a variety of certificates, in procedures perhaps even extensions of driver's licenses and all of those things directly on the counter, to complete the process of digitisation, which certainly requires both time and training and a lot of energy, but I see that the efforts are enormous in that direction, simply, from our home, without the need to wait in line in front of the counter, we end most of the jobs that concern our needs when it comes to the Ministry of the Interior. Also good is this change that speaks of simplifying the way you advertise your personal card to an invalid one. We simply won't have to spend so much time in front of the counters, because it took at least two or three departures to solve this issue when we lose our ID card or someone steals our document so that it doesn't sound invalid. This is going to be far simpler and far cheaper. The fact that this is going to mean some lack of money in the budget, which is probably the finance minister's concern, but there's that part of the story he's going to solve, because it's also probably going to require a smaller number of directly employed persons on this job. In the absence of a small number of actions in question, this is the fact that, practically, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2020 range from 52,000 to 64,000 lost ID cards which have been published invalidally and whose replacement is sought on this basis. Only in 2021 until the other day, more than 20,000 ID cards were advertised invalid. So it joined their replacement. It's good, good for the citizens, it speeds up the procedure, it reduces bureaucratic demands to come and implement this right, and it just really needs to be welcomed in the right way. It was useful, although it could have been even more radically going in this direction, when it was possible to take a ID card, or the procedure of getting a ID card when it was a minor, and older than 16 years of age, where so far for various reasons it could have happened that this minor, but also one of the parents accidentally came, without his will, into violation, because the other parent is not here or irresponsible, or for God's sake, would not want to get to the police station and to give consent to a minor, who is 16 years old, who is otherwise bound by the law to have a ID card, can take it out. This is, I guess, just a step amongst myself, because I just don't see any reason until this gets up and some other things are being prepared, I mean a sublegal act, which is that in some future period, it's seriously considering whether a person who turns 16 needs consent and one parent. I don't see any reason why it takes consent, and there's a duty for a person over 16 to have a ID card. I can understand that it's easier to obtain certain data, truthfulness, verifiability, etc., but this one such small colitision, which remains here until the end unrecovered, I think we should follow in the future and see where it will lead us and what requirements for corrections will eventually have in that direction. Of course, all good things are accompanied by certain problems. The identity card of citizens of the Republic of Serbia is not only identification paper for domestic traffic, but it has simply become a travel document in international traffic. There are a number of countries where, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have a valid ID card, we can only go out and go back to the Republic of Serbia without a special travel document or passports, as we like to say, but this has also created certain problems in procedures, especially in court, when certain persons are forbidden to leave their home, or leave the country, because so far the legal solutions have predicted that the state authorities had to follow and that every six months renew the request that the ID card cannot be used as a travel document in international traffic. Now it is a far simpler solution and when the ID card already has passport status, then practically compared to those persons will be applied in the same way as applying the travel ban on the basis of a personal ticket outside Serbia, as well as on the basis of passports. As long as another state authority considers it necessary to prohibit someone from leaving Serbia, to conduct a certain procedure, it will apply for both passport and ID and the same act to be returned to the status of the travel document at the full extent of the moment when these needs cease to exist. All of this shows, although these seem to be small changes, with these few members, these are very, very serious changes, which, especially in this part of the electronic certificate and electronic signature, need to open up a huge space to make it possible through electronic administration, the MUP makes it easier for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is one of the important reasons why we will support these legal projects in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7034	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since we no longer have registered presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has a folk MP, deputy chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7035	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues, before parliament is the proposal for an excise law, which I will talk about, I will not talk about the proposal for a law on ID cards, Dijana Radovic will talk about after me, simply because I think both laws are really worth it to them. Accizes are a special type of sales tax and are considered one of the oldest types of taxation, if I have precise data. The very name dates back to the 16th century, when beer, alcoholic beverages, salt, and sugar were taxed in the Netherlands. So is here somewhere in the group, I think, the strangest. In our tax legislation excises existed in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, but they found a permanent legal foothold 30 years ago, in the early 1990s, when a European experience was implemented in the way of taxing some products of broad consumption. It can be said that excise duty is a type of special tax on manufactured goods and is charged during production, not during sale. Unlike the classic forms of tax charged to an individual, such as property or income tax, the excise tax is charged for certain goods and represents indirect taxation. Excise products are luxury products and mainly products of mass consumption. It's coffee, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, oil derivatives. And it's an interesting historical fact, I said earlier, that the world-wide salt as a necessary food was part of taxation. Accize is paid by manufacturers and importers. The tax base is the unit of measurement of the product, such as a kilogram of coffee or a litre of alcoholic beverages and the amount of excise duty is mainly added to the price of the product, and then the VAT is calculated to that amount, which makes all of them the total price of the excise product. And this now sounds strange when I'm talking, not because one of you doesn't know it, but simply because of the public of Serbia, I define the concept of excise. From the point of view of the tax policy of one state, excise duties can be unequivocally said to represent the safest part of the tax to be charged with the budget, because there can hardly be any tax avoidance, which is important, because it is, above all, paid in the production process, so that manufacturers do not want to risk any tax evasion. On the other hand, it is about products whose consumption is extremely widespread, so that high tax revenues are made. The excise goods in both the world and Serbia are in accordance with the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration must be marked with excise stamps, other than beer, of course, so that the volume, or quantity of goods produced, can be precisely determined on the market. Selling excise goods without a excise stamp is a tax offense or a felony by law. It is interesting that excise duties basically represented a kind of prevention, i.e. deterring the use of excise goods, primarily tobacco and alcohol. In the early introduction of excise duties, the tax systems of some Western countries had three objectives: to reduce the use of socially unwanted goods that endanger human health due to the content of toxic substances, to reduce the adverse environmental impact due to the use of fossil fuels, and thus to have the role of green tax, and to reduce the poor impact of the use of excise products on society, particularly on the dependence on tobacco products or alcohol, whose use is often associated with other forms of unwanted behaviour, social and aggressive behaviour, gambling and not to list. Excise, from this angle observed, represents so-called I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Today, too, this essential role of excise duty should be considered, given the drastic increase in use primarily of tobacco products and alcohol and these vices, at least unfortunately, resist young people. Also, excise duties would be more acceptable in the context of preventive roles for citizens who now view excise duties as an unnecessary imposition of the state. So my proposal is that part of the excise is directed directly to the preventive measures of the state against disease of addiction, what alcoholism is, above all. The environmental tax has already been introduced as such and is paid by all polluters besides others. When it comes to the current amendments to the Excise Act, which we are talking about today, it is important to say that they are, above all, the outcome of Serbia's obligation to comply with EU legislation in this area. In fact, several European Commission reports found that Serbia did not bring its excise policy into line with EU rights and rules in the area of the production of alcoholic beverages. This discrepancies relate to a different rate of excise duty on domestic goods and imported goods, as well as to a model of excise duty on strong alcoholic beverages. Since we have been defined for the European path by signing the SAA with the European Communities on 29 April 2008, which came into force in 2013, on 1 September, we have taken the obligation to bring the legislative framework into line in all sectors that would ensure standardisation and transparency in the transport of labour, goods and services. In this respect, the European Commission has noted that our tax standards in the field of excise duties on alcoholic beverages are not in line with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement prohibiting fiscal discrimination. In particular, the provisions of Article 37. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement stipulates that the Serb communities will refrain from introducing any measure of internal fiscal policy that directly or indirectly discriminates against similar products and other parties. Practically, this means that Serbia cannot apply different excise duties on our domestic products compared to excise products imported from EU countries. In particular, the observation refers to the different tax treatment of domestic alcoholic beverages compared to imported alcoholic beverages. It is therefore necessary to bring our legislation in this area into line with EU law, and this is also one of the conditions for opening negotiations on negotiating Chapter 16. This change means that in Serbia, excise duty per type of strong alcoholic drink will no longer be paid, as has been the case so far, that the tax treatment of all strong alcoholic beverages is equalised. According to our current Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks, three groups of drinks were divided and the level of excise duty was determined according to these types. It's beer, low alcoholic beverages containing 11.2% to 15% and strong alcoholic beverages above 15% alcohol strength. This amendment to the law applies to strong alcoholic beverages, while for beer low alcoholic beverages, the way to calculate excise duties will not be changed. Now I have a precise definition here, but I'm simply not going to waste my colleagues' time, so it's mathematically supposed to look and how much of that excise will be increased. However, practice will quickly show. The only thing is for sure is that the higher the percentage of alcohol, the higher the excise duty on that alcoholic drink. It can be said that there is a progressive rate of excise duty in water for strong alcoholic beverages. The amendments to the law also apply to the use of existing excise stamps for strong alcoholic beverages until the adoption of a new sublegal act that will newly regulate excise stamps for strong alcoholic beverages for which excise duties will be calculated according to these amendments of the law according to the new model. The amendments to the law also require producers of strong alcoholic beverages to carry out a list of product stocks with effect from the date of entry into force of this law in order to be subject to excise duty under the new legal model. In the end, I would like to say that Serbia is a significant and recognised beer producer, low alcoholic and strong alcoholic beverages many of which are of geographical origin, and therefore achieves a significant foreign exchange inflow. In any case, these amendments to the law increase the amount of excise duties on all alcoholic beverages, especially strong alcoholic beverages, which will affect the price of alcoholic beverages. This can be viewed with two key aspects. I think they're the most realistic. The first is that the price increase may reduce the use of alcoholic beverages, which would not be bad, and the second, no less important, if Serbia had implemented its obligations towards the EU, would have brought the excise duties into line with European standards. This time, it may have had to be a little burden on domestic producers who, like all of us, have to adapt to European standards in order to make the European market available to them as such. The SPS parliamentary group will definitely support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7036	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7037	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two important legislative proposals ahead of us. It's about amendments to the I.D. Act. As we have already had the opportunity to hear from the promoter himself, but also from all those who have been exposed, then there is a kind of progress on the efficiency of getting this public document. If, and will certainly reduce bureaucracy, that is, waiting in line in front of the counter, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have seen that financial indicators will also contribute to the citizens and we consider these changes and additions very significant. In voting day, we will support the bill. So to reduce bureaucracy, reduce financial expenditure, or costs is something that is a concrete thing or effect that will directly feel citizens. We don't have a chance to see any effects in every legal solution, but here we certainly will, and in this sense we support the current government's "Stop Bureau" campaign, wherever it can be easier for citizens to access it. I am particularly pleased with the fact that we heard about the loss, that is, the disappearance of the ID card, which is that you no longer have to go with the publication in "The Official Messenger", but will go directly to the site. It's certainly a significant relief. With regard to the second law, the amendment and addition of the Excise Act, we heard specifically about what it refers to, alcoholic beverages. We heard it was a matter of harmonisation with EU legislation. We certainly support it, and we would right through excise duties, because the fact that excise goods themselves are considered a kind of luxury goods should in some way think about preventing and protecting people's health, because the greater excise duties on cigarettes, i.e. tobacco and alcoholic beverages, we hope that it may in some way be a motive for less consumption of these harmful, to say, products and for the physical and mental health of people. In this sense, it is certainly important to take care of any abuses that are very often associated with excise goods, in fact, excise goods are very often associated with the types of crime. What we have pointed out several times, and it is very important, in the fight against crime, both organised and some minor types of crime, should be uncompromising and should be non-selective. The fight against crime must not have a selective approach, both in major cities, metropolises, and in smaller environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7038	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7039	Thank you. The President-in-Office, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Card Act simplifies the lives of citizens and excessive administrative and bureaucratic procedures. This specifically refers to the situation when losing your ID card. After an earlier solution in the current ID card Act, the loss of the document had to be published in the "officer" on the cost of the person who lost his ID card, and now the citizens will no longer have to do so, but the competent authority will, i.e. The interior ministry, after adopting a solution to declare the identity card invalid, announce the loss of ID on the official web presentation of the MUP. This greatly simplifies citizens' lives, not to mention the economic side of this solution and financial savings, but also to save in the time that citizens had to set aside by waiting on counters and conducting all other procedures. Also, this bill simplifies the issue of a ID card to minors over 16 years of age. In fact, when applying for a personal card to these persons, they no longer need the consent of both, but only one parent. This is particularly important because of the fact that in a number of families in Serbia, one parent in Serbia does not stay in its country for longer because of work or for some other reason, but abroad. The bill provides for the entry into the certificate chip for electronic identification, which is why the ID card represents a qualified means of identification at a distance. Also, the good change this bill offers, which relates to the introduction into the personal data map of the person's residence, which will achieve greater efficiency in implementing the administrative procedure, and thus faster exercise of the right before the state and other bodies leading the procedure. For all of these reasons, SDPS MPs will support this bill, especially because it is in line with the plan of priority activities to reduce administrative burdens in the Republic of Serbia, known as the "Stop Bureau" project, which puts the citizen in the first place, while red tape creates a barrier. This is just one of the laws that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to improve legislation and for the benefit of citizens. The readiness of Serbian and Serbian presidents to improve the lives of citizens in all parts of our country is also seen in numerous visits they make. Namely, during a visit by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic to the municipalities of Pribo and Prepolje, the delegation included ministers and directors of several republican public enterprises. The visit showed that the president and ministers are well aware of numerous infrastructure and other problems in the municipality of Prepolje and its citizens and the state's readiness to resolve them. We hope that this visit by President Vukic will be an incentive for investors to arrive and that Prepolje will soon be able to count on some more serious investment. Unfortunately, the previous local government in Prijepolje did not create conditions for large investments because it was not heard for citizens' needs, but only for personal needs. A small confirmation of what I'm talking about is a number of investigative and criminal proceedings against the carriers of the previous local government in Prepolje. Fortunately, citizens of Prepolje quickly recognized the ideas and programmes of parties, such as SDP and SNS and coalition partners, who trusted to complete what was started by 2016. This is an opportunity to thank President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for recognising the well-being and importance of what the current local government in the municipality of Prepolje planned to do over the next four years. The President's personal support is particularly important to us and represents a huge responsibility, but also a wind in the back. The local leadership of the municipality of Prepolje, represented by the president of the municipality Vladimir Babić and his deputy, Esad Hodzic, with representatives of the government, discussed numerous infrastructure projects, such as road reconstruction, trafo-station construction and low voltage reconstruction, gasification and many other projects. On this occasion, Environment Minister Irena Vujovic, accompanied by the president of Babic Municipality and Deputy Hodzic, visited the works on the dump's recovery and expressed great satisfaction with the speed and quality of the works carried out. She also announced the resolution of other environmental problems in the municipality of Prepolje. All this testifies to the willingness of the President of the Republic and the Government itself that the problems accumulated in the previous period are solved for the benefit of all citizens and for the purpose of creating better living conditions in the municipality of Prepolje. I would like to thank the citizens of Prepolje for showing their domestic warmth and openness and for having unselfishly shared their feelings in the conversation with the President and once again showing Prepolje in the best light. As for all proposed laws on the agenda, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7040	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Samir Ćosovic. The word has a folk letter, Vice-President of the Assembly, Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7041	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, today we are discussing two laws that comply with EU rules, and I will first touch the Law on ID cards, whose primary goal is to reduce bureaucracy, i.e. reducing administrative costs for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One of the most important changes means that if a citizen loses his ID card or someone steals it, he no longer pays the advertising fee in the Official Messenger, but the competent authority, i.e. Police, the solution to declare the identity card invalidally advertised on its website. Earlier, a personal card declared invalid by the solution is advertised in the "Official Messenger" on the cost of a person whose personal card is advertised invalid. Citizens would only be able to apply for a new ID card after their commitment has been settled. It is important to note that the extraction of the new ID card after the disappearance cost much more than the extraction of the first ID card and, in the event of the disappearance, the cost was as much than 3,550 dinars, and in the event of the expiry of 1,115 dinars. What we need to do in the future is transfer this to passports, because the price is even higher. The law is in the service of citizens, and in order to improve the electronic administration and thanks to the electronic administration, citizens can schedule deadlines for extracting documents to over 120 tents of the interior ministry in nearly 80 cities and municipalities across Serbia. Public administration reform, as I have already mentioned, is one of the two key conditions for EU accession. Serbia has adopted a recent new Public Administration Reform Strategy that sets out the direction of development and change in public administration over the next 10 years. The document provides for a unique and responsible administration, a measure of citizens and businesses, and it is driven and turned to everyday life and aims to make all services in the public sector practical, accessible to citizens, simple and easy. It is the essence of public administration reform, that you help people not to have a headache when they have to enroll children in kindergarten or school, that they have no problem taking out a new passport or ID card, registering a car or opening a new company. As regards the Excise Law proposal, new amendments balance the amount of excise duties for all strong alcoholic beverages compared to the percentage of alcohols that contain, rather than raw materials from which they are derived. The reason for the change in excise policy when it comes to alcoholic beverages is to comply with the EU directive. According to existing provisions, the Republic of Serbia has taxed certain types, mostly locally produced alcoholic beverages, at a lower rate than other similar, mostly imported types of alcoholic beverages. Such a provision was not in accordance with Article 37. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is why Serbia is revising its legislation in taxing excises with alcoholic beverages. According to the data I came up with last year, the highest number of drinks in Serbia is less than 15% of alcohol, i.e. Beer, wine and similar products, and the total excise income on alcoholic beverages in 2020 amounted to 13.8 billion dinars and your ministry, Mr Sinisha, when writing a new legal solution, made sure that the changes had a minor impact on the level of public revenues based on excise duties. We will see in the next period whether it will affect the market for domestic producers, primarily I think about the producers of brandy, and eventually the increase in public revenue in the budget. Unique Serbia supports the work of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the work of our government, and the other day we discussed in the Assembly and eventually voted, the Law on Equality, but the impression that some were more equal than others in previous years. Today, my colleague, Life Starcevic, talked about it, when he asked the congregation question, that for Dragan Gilas, regardless of the official notes and witnesses that he committed domestic violence, the institutions did not respond and because of that and I say that some citizens seemed more equal than others. But the Unique Serbia believes in the institutions of this state and we believe that they view all citizens equally and that on the charge of domestic violence against Dragan Gilas will react and show that they are on the side of the truth. In the day to vote, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of all proposed laws on the agenda of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7042	Thank you. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is five minutes. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7043	Bratimir Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7044	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, today is on the agenda of the Law amending the Act on the ID card and the Excise Act. I would refer briefly, when it comes to the Law on the ID card, as defined by the new bill, my view is that it will facilitate and enable citizens of the Republic of Serbia to come to such an important document in a much faster and much easier way, as is a personal map, and simply avoid bureaucratic relations with Serbian citizens, and that personal map will include data that have not been copied so far, such as the place of residence. Many jobs from many areas will be easier to complete, because simply in the ID card itself, all the necessary data will be contained to legislate and identify all relevant data for one person who owns such a document. When it comes to excise duty to change, it is simply the following, that it is a simple alignment with the European Community, given that excise products are taxed by force there, i.e. the amount of alcohol contained in alcoholic beverages. When it comes to drinks containing less than 15% alcohol, it will not change anything, such as beer and similar products, and for products that have more than 15% of the content of alcohol in them will be calculated excise duty per hectolitre. It's one more modern way and a better way to embrace it. Manufacturers are not interested in hiding that tax, because it is very easy to determine the quantity they produced, so that data can easily be obtained as much as it takes for the state to collect excise duties on that basis. After all, it's one of the easiest tax collections, simply invisible, but customers simply don't see it, only manufacturers who do it see it. I wanted to look back on other things, see what it looks like when the opposition puts itself in one position to criticize everything that exists in this country, so I wanted to look back a little bit. We've been hearing lately that they're very concerned about how the SNS works and that simply our president of the SNS and the president of the state are using Stalin's methods to deal with his insatiables, which is a complete lie and a lie. I've been a witness since the founding of the SNS, and I've never been able to get acquainted with such methods, and unlike what they've done, what they've done, what they've done and what they've done, I'd only remind citizens and I often need to remind citizens, because we're inclined to forget, often times what's important. Let's just remind ourselves how Mr. Vuksanovic went, only he wanted to and intended to run, to be against the candidate of the then president of the yellow company, the minority was expelled through the chimney, as I say. Let's remember Mr. Micunovic, they took his party, and that's not a democratic act, and that was one on Serbia's political scene. As Borko Stefanovic passed, according to Vuk Jeremic, as Sutanovac passed, whether it is unknown or whether the citizens forgot, so they worry and worry about how the SNS does it. He would remind who he was and whose time of government he betrayed the best Serbian sons, who existed at that time and I will list Milosevic, Sainovic, Karadzic, Krajisnik, Biljana, Mladic, Pavkovic, Lazarevic. Who did this? Is it during the power of Alexander Vukic or is it during the yellow and DOS authorities? It has never happened in history that any country has delivered its leadership to the state, and here practical and leadership and political and military leadership have been betrayed, and I would say freely, sold, because information is hard to hide from such things. After 2000, who fired over 2,000 officers from the colonel and colonel's majors, that it might not have been done during the power of Alexander Vukic, or were they doing it yellow? Whoever drowned over 1,000 heavy weapons, tanks, cannons, hoodies, and not to say that there were several thousand light weapons gone. During whose time it was done, and who decided to temporarily suspend military service? To what purpose was that brought? Is that for the purpose of strengthening Serbia's security and army, or was that another goal? We have been constantly listening to Alexander Vukic betray Kosovo, although the man tells everyone it will never be the tenth. I would remind you that Kosovo has declared its independence and independence in 2008, not in 2014 and 2016 since Aleksandar Vukic led this country. Did Montenegro stand out from the community with Serbia during the rule of Alexander Vukic or did it happen in 2006, when the yellows were headed by this country? Who completed the construction of the three highways, Corridor 10, Corridor 11 and Milos the Great, which was completed by the Chačka? Have we forgotten that during the exercise of power by Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Who is and whose time of government did he build two hoofs of hospitals and the third one is under construction? Who and whose time was it built the Clinical Center in Nis, and is built in Belgrade, Novi Sad, will be built in Kragujevac and Novi Pazar? Who is and whose time is it that the authorities are building two plants that will cost over 100m euros to produce vaccines, such as Sputnik and Sinofarm Chinese? In addition, we will produce another flu vaccine, a four-valent vaccine that only two countries in the world produce and Serbia ranks in the order of such producers. Who and during whose time did the authorities renovate a huge number of schools in the state of Serbia? Whom the President of the Czech Republic apologized to for the baseless and unwarranted bombing, i.e. A crime committed to the Serbian people? We know perfectly what the yellow government did during that period, went around the world, and apologized to everyone alive for being bombed, so is that the same status, or is this what our president of Serbia is doing visible to everyone? At the very end, we are ordering the opposition not to worry that our country president allegedly uses Stalinist methods to deal with his insinuated party, and there are no such procedures and behaviours, and we will always be with the president of the state, we love him, we respect and support him as long as Serbia progresses as it does today. And in the very end, lived Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7045	Thank you. The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7046	I thank you, Dr. Orlic. Dear Ministers Mr. Mali, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I was selected from the list "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children" and I represent the United Peasant Break in the Serbian Parliament. I will vote in favour of the proposals of these laws, by saying certain things concerning us living in southeastern Serbia. In particular, we are all witnessing that in the previous period there is a lot to be set aside for the development of fruit, for the development of what is very important for our Serbia, for the southeast of Serbia. A large number of our citizens and the territory of the municipality from which I come, and in other municipalities is allocated for fruit growing, aid for fruit growing, plums are dried, the most worked on the subject of plums, is invested in agriculture, where one part of that product is used for further processing, one part goes for the production of brandy. Otherwise, we are recognizable here in Serbia with a good plum. The plum is something that's protected, and that's great. So far, and beyond that, I'm sure this product of ours will be very current. It will have the opportunity to go beyond the borders of our country of Serbia and I will always work on it, because promotion and development of fruit growing is very important for all of us, because it is part of agricultural production and many people live. With this now Excise Act we give the possibility, normally, we want to go towards the European Union, I support it, because the European Union is a place where there is much more separation for agriculture, for subsidies in agriculture, for the development of agriculture, but on the other hand, I think we would have the opportunity to try to protect our domestic products in some way further from others, because it is necessary to protect our producer, our farmer, our farmer, our farmer, our winemaker, our winemaker, our shepherd and our cattleman. They're all our people, and we must always be there for them. We have the opportunity to do that, but this part now around excise duty, about increasing excise duty on products that have stronger power, that will affect our brandy, and I think now we'll need to find the possibility for some things to make our own products, or our own homemade brandy, to provide for it, because it will now have the same, might even be cheaper that product, whiskey, which is now quite expensive because there are these excises that protect our domestic product. I've always been there for that, even though I don't consume alcohol, I think we need to ensure safety for these producers of these alcoholic beverages, because homemade brandy plums are very important to us. Once again, I will support the bill. As for the I.D. and what we were talking about, it's also very good because now it's going to change, and it's going to give them the opportunity to issue to young people, from 16 years of age and beyond, it's taken both parents to sign so they can get their ID, and now it won't be necessary. On the other hand, it's good to make it easier for things to change, that tomorrow when someone loses a ticket, they don't publish it and it's cheaper for him. Once again, thank you in advance, distinguished ministers, that we all need to think about our agriculture, southeast Serbia, and we need to look and look forward, normally, with the support of the European Union, because without it, it will be much harder for us. I'll vote for the bill of these laws. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7047	Thank you. The word is Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7048	Dear Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, I would first and foremost like to send full support to the President of Unity of Serbia, Mr Dragan Markovic Palma and the judicial institutions of our country in order to make false accusations of which the wider public is interested to receive their epilogue, of course, in court. Dragan Markovic Palma is a man with a ID card, which is his work, work in the interests of Serbian citizens, investment, Jagodina – a city of the future, etc. And that's what the people of Serbia know. On the other hand, we have Marinika Tepic and her bosses whose I.D. is talking about flying, false accusations, bribery, manipulation and media performances. Of course, the people of Serbia need to know and know. Today, we have before us amendments and additions to the ID Act, which governs the rights, obligations and procedures related to the ID card, as a public correction to which citizens prove their identity. The main reasons for amending the existing law have been seen shortcomings in the current law, as well as obligations stemming from the Serbian government's "Stop Bureau" project. The amendments are in line with the Priority Action Plan for reducing administrative costs for citizens. The proposed amendments to the existing law also provide for the registration of certificates for electronic identification in a chip, on which the ID card becomes a qualified means of identification at a distance and electronic identification scheme of a high level of reliability. The aim is to comply with the rules on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business. Even NAED recommends introducing an obligation to issue ID cards only with a chip to further improve the development of an electronic administration in Serbia. This would speed up, simplify and cheaper procedures in the administrations in which citizens participate. In the opinion of NAED, no-chip IDs make it impossible to issue a qualified electronic signature, which is otherwise free for all citizens and is a digital replacement for his own signature. Amendments to the law also provide for a reduction of administrative burden for citizens. The identity card that has been declared invalid so far has been invalid in the official messenger on the cost of citizens. The proposed amendments to the law provide that in the event of a loss of ID, citizens will not have to advertise it invalidly in the "Official Messenger", but the competent authority, or the Ministry of the Interior, will, after adopting a decision to declare the identity card invalid, announce it invalid on the official web presentation of the ministry. The amendments provide that in the event that the IAP adopts a solution to ban the use of the ID card as travel documents, the said ban will apply until the conditions for the withdrawal of the travel document have been met. Proposed amendments to the law will allow a minor over 16 years of age to be issued a personal card with the consent of only one parent, regardless of whether the other parent is exercising parental rights or the consent of another parent is not required. The European Commission's report for 2020 has seen constant progress in the field of information society and electronic communication, and we have made far progress in this area. Confirmation of this is our electronic communications system when it comes to the vaccination of our population. The system has functioned impeccably in the last six or seven months and has significantly helped us to be at this level of immunization of the population today. When it comes to the Excise Act, the reason for changing the excise policy on alcoholic beverages is to comply with the European Union directives. The European Commission's report recommends that Chapter 16 may be open to negotiations only when Serbia revises its legislation on the taxation of alcohol excise duties. The amendments to the law balance the amount of excise duty for all strong alcoholic beverages compared to the percentage of alcohols containing, and not to, raw materials of which they are derived. Accises on certain drinks will be higher as the percentage of pure alcohol in them is higher, so for the level of excise duties it will not matter if the drink is made of fruit, which is the case of brandy, or cereal, which is the basis for the production of whiskey. The proposed legislative changes will most likely affect the increase in retail prices of certain active products as well as the increase in tax obligations, and on the other hand, businesses and producers will create a framework for potential cost reductions. Out of all the above-mentioned parliamentary group, Unity Serbia will support these two very important laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7049	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Diana Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7050	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, as colleagues before me today have said today is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the ID which directly refers to the largest number of our citizens, given that the ID card is a public document that must be owned by each of our citizens over 16 years of age, which proves and confirms his identity. In line with the reform processes that our state administration is conducting and where we have a focus on providing services to citizens who will be of exceptional quality or precisely these changes in the ID law say that the MUP is focused and focused on adapting the era of digitisation as quickly and better as possible, but also becoming a modern and operational service of citizens. Therefore, this item of the agenda is also an opportunity for us to talk today about that section of administrative affairs relating to a large number of complex administrative affairs, which our citizens are applying to the MUP. It is, of course, the issue of personal and travel documents, but over three hundred different services provided by the MUP to our citizens. In the previous period, we had the opportunity to see for ourselves that a number of improvements in these services were primarily made by the introduction of electronic services, and that is all in order to provide better quality services to our citizens, but also to speed up and simplify communication between this state authority and our citizens. We had the opportunity to discuss this bill at the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, and on that occasion we also met closer and with some newspapers that were included in all kinds of administrative and service activities to which the MUP performs. First of all, I'm thinking about the newspaper that's worth mentioning in this High House, which is that now the MUP is actually the first state body to have everything, absolutely all the services that it provides to be paid by electronic means. This service is called – the service pays, and based on it, by creating a single payment card, we don't actually have any more payments, but only one and therefore we pay less fees. The high level of electronic business within the department's administrative offices is also spoken of by a service that allows for electronic appointments, such as periods for issuing or obtaining personal documents, then extension of the driver's license, we no longer have to go to the counters, but we can also register a motor vehicle without going to the police station. All these services provided by the MUP are services that have been significantly improved in the previous period, thereby saving and money and the time of our citizens, which is the essence of digitisation, i.e. to reduce administrative costs and thus save time. This kind of service contributes to our citizens' faster, simpler and better achieving their rights and, as I was saying in the presentation of an electronic document, digitisation is something that has become a process that covers all segments of our society, there is no area or activity in our lives that no longer requires digital technologies. The state administration is therefore part of the executive authority closest to our citizens, i.e. through a wide range of public services it provides to our citizens, it achieves with them and the most direct communication and, therefore, it is important that we constantly promote and modernise it so that citizens truly experience it as their service. Investment in information and communication technology is something that is also a priority in the MUP Development Strategy, from 2018 to 2023, which is why I find it particularly important to invest in this part of the activities of the MUP, i.e. in services that carry out a large number of administrative, administrative, or service jobs for our citizens. By modernising this information system, we will actually create an even better quality service to our citizens, and the communication that the MUP has towards our citizens will also speed up, thus improving the internal communication of this state body with other state bodies, but it will also speed up, which will also improve the external communication of this ministry towards our citizens, which will contribute to the satisfaction of citizens in a sense that will achieve much faster and better all of their rights. Practical benefits for our citizens also have each of the above-mentioned changes and additions to this law that we are talking about today, and above all, I am referring to the change, which concerns reducing administrative costs in the event of a loss of ID, because our citizens will no longer have to publish an invalid ID card in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and that they are paying a certain commission, but it will be enough to publish only the ID card invalid on the official website of the MUP. This will also speed up the acquisition of a new document, which is extremely important, and therefore what concerns the greatest part of digitisation, i.e. the change of digitisation in this law, is that the MUP is one of seven qualified service providers of trust, and these amendments and additions to the ID Act are precisely achieving compliance with the Law on the Electronic Document and in the segment on which the ID card represents a qualified means of electronic signature and distance identification. This is particularly important because the majority of our citizens over 70% have a personal card with a chip and will therefore be able to use their ID card precisely in a large part of electronic business, but thus also in achieving their rights and obligations during any other legal traffic. A change that is extremely important is that with these changes and additions to minors over 16 years of age, only one parent will be able to issue a ID card, regardless of whether the other parent is exercising parental law. I find this change extremely important and that it reflects the real need of our citizens and the reality of today's time in which we live, especially considering that very often one of the parents is working abroad, but also that unfortunately more and more children are divorced parents. This is precisely the kind of change we allow to avoid any unpleasant situations that may arise, but to allow our rights to come true as quickly as possible. What certainly merits attention, and should be mentioned, is the use of the MUP for the best solutions constantly adapts its working time to the real needs of citizens and real conditions, which is also mentioned by the fact that these days in all, almost all police stations and administrations have extended working hours during the weekend, and this also says that our citizens' interest in issuing, or obtaining personal travel documents has been increased. The SPS parliamentary group will certainly support these amendments and additions to the Personal Card Act, because we believe that they are an extremely good response to the needs and needs of our citizens, and businesses, and also to represent an additional raising of the scale in terms of better functionality and efficiency of the services of the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7051	Thank you. The word is Vesna Nedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7052	The Honorable Speaker of the Assembly, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is a public ID card that Serbian citizens prove identity and as evidence in other facts contained therein. The right to an ID card is given to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia over the age of 16 and is their duty to have it. Amendments and additions to the Law on the ID card are made due to the usual shortcomings and because of the government's conclusion, which adopted a priority plan and to reduce the administrative burden in the Republic of Serbia from the "Stop Bureau" project. The amended provisions specifically refer to advertising the loss of ID, citizens will not have to advertise in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", but to the competent authority of the MUP, advertising the official web presentation of the MUP, following the adoption of a resolution on the declaration of the identity card invalid. In addition to this change, the addition of data contained in the form of a ID card is foreseen to add information on the address of the registered residence, i.e. the enrollment of the microcontroller is foreseen. A chip, a certificate for electronic identification based on which the ID card represents a qualified means of identification in distance and pattern, electronic identification of the mean level of security. The amendment also provides for the entry of a qualification certificate for electronic signature at the personal request and the relevant data for the establishment of that certificate. Another important amendment and erasure of a part of the provision relating to the submission of a minor’s identity card over 16 years of age. With a minor over 16 years of age, the identity card is issued with the consent of only one parent, regardless of whether the other parent is exercising parental law. A person who, because of his nationality, religion or gender customs, wears a hat or scarf, as an integral part of a costume or clothing, can be photographed with a cap and scarf, in accordance with the regulation on how to take biometric data. A ID card can be a travel document, if specified by an international contract and a ID card, we can enter the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro. The system – pays, eliminates any need to adopt an overa, a payment card as proof that an appropriate fee or any other compensation has been paid. By www. Pay e-Government. The rs allows the creation of a single payment order for any service, requiring the number of approvals and thus simplifying procedures, as well as saving time for Serbian citizens. And not to forget, on April 9, 1999, on the Big Friday, the Battle of Kosharam began, was fought between the Serb army, then called the Yugoslav Army, on the one hand and NATO's triple-powered regular army of Albania and KLA terrorists on the other. The goal of the NATO attack was to defeat units of the Yugoslav Army at the Koshara border crossing, carrying out a land invasion at KIM. The plan was to take Djakovica, cut the lines of our army between Djakovica and Prizren, and then the entire Metohija, allowing NATO to bomb them. With NATO failing to succeed in destroying our army's land units, mass artillery fires from the Albanian side began on the Big Friday, April 9, 1999. During that attack, some 1,500 KLA members were undetected, with about 200 members of our army on the front line. The blood battle, she kept secret all day and continued through the night. The next day, reinforcements arrived for our soldiers, in the people, and artillery weapons. Fathers came as volunteers, to fight with their sons and were determined to die, not giving a pedal to the Serbian country. The frontal battle on the line about 15km long has been defended for nearly two months, with daily attempts by enemy forces to break through. The strongest charge, in the first days, took place on April 12th and May 6th, when the land attack preceded more than 10 hours of continuous NATO bombing, hell of Koshara. By 2011, no texts had appeared in this battle, and in the struggles 108 members of our army, 18 officers and officers, 50 regular soldiers, 13 reservers, 24 volunteers. Most of the dead were young men from 18 to 20 years of age. The bodies of a few soldiers have never been delivered. In today's political struggle, no attacks by political opponents, a new method, weapons are much more dangerous than attacks, which is ridicule. Well-trained cameramen, songwriters of some humorous shows, draw attention from the topic of events to some momentary movement, sudden movement, an excuse error, as a mockery material, and turning it all into choreography. An ordinary man must not praise the work, the efforts of the Government and President Alexander Vukic, because he becomes a stupid, uneducated, credential, there is a lack of taste in clothing and all that can be material for possible ridicule, and all those who recognize citizens who want to praise and show recognition, as co-workers of government and state security. They want us to be seen as the worst, and we continue to nod over genocide, where we were victims ourselves, who at the time Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas ruled Serbia. We can't remember our injuries, we can't mention the victims, we can't build, we can't work, and first of all, we can't be the best. Something they'll never be able to do, and they won't be allowed to ban us, it's that we love Serbia. In the end, I would like to commend the organisation of the Zemun Health House and the city municipality of Zemun, the municipalities in continuity provide support to the health system. Our common goal is to achieve collective immunity. The vaccination bus, organised for the second time on May 22nd, was set up on Zemunski key, allowed Zemun citizens to receive a Sinofarm or Phaser vaccine in 10 to 17 hours without reporting, as well as previous Saturdays, the citizens show great interest. More than 15,000 calls were made to businesses, to offer them the possibility of inoculation of employees, calls were made to educational institutions and we already organised vaccinations at the school "Ilija Bircanin", at INSA and employees at the "Gallenika" factory. On Saturday, we continue the action, May 29, the vaccine bus will be set up on Zemunski kei, near the summer stage. In Batajnica, in Zemun Park. I appeal and call for vaccination, and I especially call on young people from 16 to 30 years of age, because it's the only way we can beat this pandemic and gain collective immunity. In the day of voting, I will support the bill's proposal, as well as my parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7053	Thank you. The word is Dr. Nina Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7054	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and respected MPs, primarily citizens of the Republic of Serbia, historically, excise duties appear as the oldest form of consumer tax. With their introduction, the idea of taxation of consumption was first applied. Accizes are very easy and efficiently harvested. The billing and billing system is very simple, and the tax evac in excises is very small. During the development of regulations that regulated this tax form all these years, it sought to harmonise with EU regulations, eliminate the grey economy and secure executive revenues for the Republic of Serbia's budget. Under the law, the excise duty is the producer or importer of excise products. The manufacturer of excise products shall be the person who, in the production plant, processes, processes the products on which the excise duty is paid, and the importer of excise products is the person who, in his name and for his own account, or the person for whose invoice imports are produced from abroad, to whom the excise duty is paid. The basis for calculating excise duties are units of dimensions – liters, kilograms, pieces, packs and hectolitres. Excises tax the consumption of certain products, mostly monopolistic, or mass consumption products, and these are alcoholic beverages, coffee, tobacco products and oil derivatives. We all know that it is forbidden to place on the territory of the Republic of Serbia excise products which are not marked with an excise stamp. Consent to Article 176. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration constitute a tax offence. Alcoholic beverages are considered drinks that, among other things, contain ethanol and are placed on the market. Strong alcoholic beverages are drinks over 15% alcohol, and low alcoholic beverages are those containing between 1.2% and 15%, which are produced from fruit juices, with the addition of refined ethyl alcohol, which are wines and all types of beer, except of course non-alcoholic beer. The reason for the adoption of this law is to comply with the standards on alcoholic beverages in the EU. In fact, the European Commission considers that certain provisions do not comply with Article 37. Stabilisation and Association Agreements between Serbia and Serbia, and all this is related to Chapter 16. The new laws will equalise the amount of excise duties for all strong alcoholic beverages compared to the percentage of alcohols that contain, and not to the raw materials of which the drink is made. The law predicts five different levels of excise duty. Two levels remain the same and are calculated per litre, one excise on a beer of 26.44 dinars per litre, and the other are low alcoholic beverages with a alcohol content of 1.2 to 15%. These include wines and liqueurs on which excises will remain the same, which is 23.14 dinars. For all strong alcoholic beverages, excise duty will be calculated on the principle of 100 liters, i.e. one hectolitre of pure alcohol. For example, this means that in the future 100 liters of pure alcohol, which is in 250 liters of booze, the excise tax will be 46,250 dinars, and translated per litre bottle will amount to 185 dinars per litre, and the new law will apply to all drinks with a 40% and more alcohol content. Excise will be bigger for a certain drink. The higher the percentage of pure alcohol in it, the lower the retail price of certain products with a higher share of alcohol, because we know that the price of the product is first calculated by excise duty, so the price obtained goes to a VAT of 20%, which ultimately means that if the price of excise duties increases, the VAT increases accordingly and the retail price, i.e. the price of the retail product higher. Accizes are normally included in a group of indirect consumer products and are very important for the collection of public revenues from a single country, which is one of their basic objectives. It is a wide range of reasons and justifications for the introduction of excise duties from fiscal, as the basic objective of imposing excise duties, to a series of non-fiscal objectives, i.e. economic, social, environmental and health. We all know that products that are subject to excise duties in most cases are products that harm human health and are declared to be a luxury compared to foods that are essential to human existence. In view of the fact that the adoption of this law will ensure a continuous inflow of excise duties on alcoholic beverages into the Republic budget, the consequences of the adoption of this law are considered to be positive by justifying the costs of this law. Given that the adoption of this law will allow the removal of obstacles to the opening of the negotiating chapter 16 and the harmonisation of the Excise Act with EU rules, the SPS parliamentary group will support this bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7055	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7056	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, today we have two motions to amend and supplement the law. When we talk about amendments and additions to the ID Act, I'm just going to say that it's one of the amendments and additions to the laws where we want to make it easier for citizens to get to certain benefits, so they're not waiting in line anymore, and when I talk about the ID card, first and foremost to align with the ePrecise. I think that's one of the crucial reasons. When it comes to the Excise Act, it is about homogenising with EU rules. Here I would also like to emphasise and invite citizens to maintain the financial discipline that we have at this point, which we are doing at the end and through certain prize games, as is now again "Take the bill and win 2021" and say that just a good excise charge, good sales tax gives us what we have now so we can invest, that we can invest. First of all, I would point out that what brings a lot of revenue to the state budget is profit taxes. Tax the profits, because we haven't had a profit in a long time. The work of this government, particularly of the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, including ours, we've had a boom, we've experienced an economic recovery that we haven't had in a long time, something that's been an axiom in the last twenty and a few years. Now we are able to produce, work, hire in these conditions, and this very work is coming back to us, and the state and local tills are now fuller. Most of the cities, when planning their budgets for this current financial year, did not count on so many incomes coming back from the local budget, and even, I am convinced that the city from which I come, Kraljevo, that two large companies have opened their factories and that they have hired a large number of workers and I am convinced that soon they will not have any unemployed in the city. It was these taxes that contributed to an increase in the city's budget of about four billion, which was long gone. Now the city can invest, it can invest, it can fix bridges, streets and alleys and plan the future. And, most importantly, that's how we stop the outflow of young people, because the last 20 and a little over the years the goal was just one, to finish college and stay in Belgrade if you don't go abroad. So now Serbia lives, lives south, lives north, lives central Serbia. How much we invest in roads, how much we have invested, and many here today have said how much we have invested in three birds of the hospital, and we should stress that we have invested a lot in our people's health and we have prevented the worst scenarios that Italy, Spain, the United States, many countries that are much more economically powerful than we are. What needs to be pointed out in particular, and today the economic "Balkan Business Forum" started, and the first estimates and first comments were already from the IMF and the World Bank, and I am not talking about our minister and the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, what are the results and what are Serbia's prides and prides? So, when everyone had a catastrophic fall we had one mild, I think that's 1.2% in the first semester of last year, and behind that growth that was much bigger than any of us planned, even we here and the gentlemen and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So this year is going to be over 7%. It's that driving force. So, first of all, we have to respect financial discipline. So if we don't charge what's state, we can't even finance anything. We all know how to finance and health care, education, the military and the police and not talk any further. Again, here you would point out something about my city again. Last week, two spas were successfully privatized in the vicinity of the Kings. It's Matarushka and Bogotaka Banja. After two decades, I hope that the right people, when I say the right people who have ideas, who have a vision, who think as we think in this National Assembly, that is, the majority of people in this National Assembly, as the Government and the President of the Republic thinks about the future, thinks about development, and I am sure that in the next year most of us will be able to visit Vranjska Banja, which is about 20 kilometers from the Royals, and that Mataruska, in which no one has come in for many years, and that this will be a laundry room for our tourism, and that with the Morava airport next to the Kings, we will attract a lot of foreign tourists, first of all those people who want to be treated in our country, to develop this health tourism. Now at this time of the pandemic we have shown that we are capable and powerful, more powerful than much stronger than we are, to treat in the right and only right way. I wouldn't be long because there are a lot of colleagues behind me who would say a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7057	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Olja Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7058	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, Honored Ladies and Gentlemen MPs, Honored Citizens and Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is before us today the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID because of the observed shortcomings in the applicable law, but also because of the obligation stemming from the Government's "Stop Bureau" project, namely the conclusion of the government which adopted a priority plan for reducing administrative burdens, i.e. reducing the costs of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These changes and additions have proposed more changes in order to facilitate citizens' rights, but also to increase general security. The Republic of Serbia and this bill show commitment to carrying out activities related to the development of digital services. It will make it possible for citizens to use electronic portals, primarily eGovernment portals, which would mean that without going to the counters, they can file demands. This makes it easier for citizens, saves their time and money, but also facilitates the work of the state authorities, because the reception is done without the personal presence of the parties on the counters, which has proved to be of great importance during this epidemic, with reliable and secure submission of electronic requirements. This government, headed by Aleksandra Vukic, will be remembered in history by the digitalisation process, but also by the construction of a record number of kilometers of highways, roads, railways, by construction and reconstruction of schools, hospitals, clinical centres, health centres, but Serbia's further progress. This way I would like to thank the President for his visit to the Pyrot County last weekend, specifically Dimitrovgrad and everything that has been done so far for the development of our end. The very important news for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is that the average salary in March was 555 euros, and we remember that only a few years ago, i.e. when Aleksandar Vukic came as Prime Minister, was 330 euros, which is a major shift, and by the end of the year the average salary is planned to be 600 euros. I would also like to express this path with full support for the implementation of a project to build apartments for security forces, which we supported last week in the National Assembly, taking into account the importance and responsibility of their work and their importance for the security of the entire country and all of us, which, we agree, is not an easy job at all, especially now that the state has set out to fight all kinds of crime and corruption and has come into play with the largest criminal groups. Serbian citizens have confidence in their country, institutions and we see it also because over the past few months we have no mob killings, which the state is making efforts and fighting all kinds of criminal activities, ranging from large to smallest crimes that interfere with the everyday lives of citizens. The citizens of the elections made it clear that they did not want the state to be run by people who are involved in crime, who only mattered to the personal property benefit, and so we will continue to work even more strongly in the interests of our country and all citizens who gave us confidence, but in order to get back to normal life, it is necessary that we all show a high level of responsibility in these difficult moments, as it first implies that we all vaccinate. In the first row of vaccination were medical workers and our oldest citizens, but now it's our turn, young people, to show that we want to fight for our country, to show that we care to preserve everything we've achieved so far, but that we want to help and continue with even faster progress and normal life flows. Fortunately, thanks to the wise policy of Alexander Vukic and his friendly relations and reputation in the world in our country, we have not only enough vaccines, but also all kinds of vaccines available on the world market are available to our citizens and that is absolutely free of charge, which we know is not the case everywhere in the world and that, unfortunately, some countries continue to have great difficulties in obtaining vaccines. Our country, in addition to all the above, is also stimulating citizens with the help of 3,000 dinars for all who are vaccinated by June 1st and apply for this type of state stimulation. In addition, Serbia's great success is that, in co-operation with partners from the UAE and China, it starts building a Serbian vaccine factory. We could also see what it would look like and that would mean that in our country vaccines would not only be packed, but it would produce the very liquid of vaccines against Kovida-19, but also a four-valent flu vaccine, and it soon moves with the construction of the PCR test plant. Serbia is not only taking care of the preservation of the health of its citizens, which has significantly contributed to the construction of even two coves of the hospital, in Batajnica and Kruševec, and the third in Novi Sad is being built, but we have helped, and in the future we will have the opportunity to help our neighbours in the region, and we already see a large number of foreigners who have already vaccinated or want to be vaccinated in our country and thus protect their health. All of this shows that and how we should be proud of all our achievements in medicine, pharmaceuticals and health care at all. When we talk about this bill and general security, I can't help but look back at my exposure to the permanent attacks on the president who have been growing more and more frequent lately and now the attacks are most often on his son, Danil Vukic, who is putting him in grave danger, bringing him into contact with the most dangerous criminals. In previous years, we could see constant attacks on the president himself, but also on the members of his family, on his brother, on his father, and on his children, where he was not protected even by a small three-year-old Vulcan, which crosses every border of decency. We don't mind drawing targets on anyone's forehead, and especially on the head of an innocent child who deserves to grow up like all his peers, being a weapon in any kind of fight and means of getting to the finish line, and the only goal of those who do that is to keep getting rich at the expense of all of us, because apparently all millions in white-world accounts are not enough and they want to continue with their robbery and criminal activities, which we won't allow them, because decent Serbia, as it is today, does not deserve and the state firmly and strongly stands firm in the fight against all kinds of crime and corruption. All the pressures on the president at no time rocked his strong decision to fight for Serbia, for Serbia that was raised from the ashes, which was also robbed on its knees, for Serbia, which Alexander Vukic just raised and now lives in a country that is fastest growing across Europe, and we see that as the average salary rises in March, which is 555 euros, which showed that the world leader in the response to the crisis that has taken place, and that is what we all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have done together. That is why we will not allow individuals to destroy it for the sake of personal interest and personal gain, but we will work even more diligently and continue to strengthen our country. In the day to vote, together with my colleagues from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7059	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7060	Thank you. Mr. Orlic, the Honorable Minister, Mr. Lazic, the Honorable Mrs. Vulic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we of the Serbian Progressive Party have already pointed out that we strongly support the proposed laws, i.e. the proposals of the law of today's agenda, and we have heard a lot from the minister, as well as from the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, and in the capacity of the Committee's rapporteur, have brought forth the most significant elements which are subject to the amendments and addition of the Law on Personal Cards, as well as all those benefits for citizens, but also to the economy resulting from the same ones. Every time we talk about acts from the interior ministry is a good opportunity to touch the security situation, the security situation in our country, the fight against crime and the mafia, the fight against organised crime, the fight against corruption, etc. National MPs who were members of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs had an opportunity two weeks ago at a meeting of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs to discuss information on the work of the Ministry of Interior, as well as the Safety Report, which was notified to the public so much more because the session was open to the public. What is an irrefutable fact is that Serbia today is an absolutely safe and stable country, in a much safer, more stable and safer country than in the years when others have exercised power in Serbia. When I say that, I mean not only statistical data, which in every segment, in every possible segment, shows that the crime rate in Serbia is in decline, therefore, and when it comes to general crime and when we talk about economic crime and high-tech crime and every other crime. Also, when we talk about concrete crimes, such as crimes against life and bodies, acts against half-freedom, crimes against property, acts against human health, acts against general security of people and property, against public authorities, public order and peace, and all other crimes are in significant decline. For example, when we talk about curbing general crime in Serbia in October-December 2020, 9.6% less crimes were committed than in the same period in 2019. This trend appears everywhere, in every report, so 16% of fewer crimes in the family during the same reporting period. It's been taken off 1,884 kilos of drugs in the reporting period. Here's what it looks like. In 3,717 realized seizures, 1,884 kg of drugs were seized, so 1,767 kg of marijuana, 25.4 kg of heroin, 77.4 kg of amphetamine, 1.5 kg of cocaine, 12.2 kg of other drugs. When it comes to seizures at border crossings, the Vatin 137 kg of marijuana border crossing, the Gerdap 119,000 pieces of Xalol tablets, the Horgos 8.4 kg of heroin border crossing. In Arangelovac, 632 kg of marijuana was seized, 12 kg of marijuana, 22 kg of raw marijuana and 166 grams of seeds were seized. Speaking of weapons, weapons seized in October-December 2020 in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia 3.140 pieces of firearms and 11.915 pieces of ammunition. The same thing is, I don't bother now, and I don't read all the data, so it wouldn't make sense, but the same trend follows all the other parameters, so, when we talk about organised trafficking and trafficking in people and crimes against property and crimes against police officers, cyber attacks, the state of security in the land zone. Particular attention deserves a segment of the fight against organised crime and the mafia, where the state has made it very clear that there are no protected in this fight and that no one is stronger than the state. We have shown that when there is a will, when there is a will in the state to fight, to fight crime and corruption, then the state can also be dealt with with by the most organised and most dangerous criminal groups, such as Belivuk-Miljkovic, who are accused of the most monstrous crimes. As hard as anyone in Serbia has tried, and many are trying to downplay this action and the results of this action. We are witnessing that the campaign of some media against Alexander Vukic, which is aimed at devising and downplaying these results that I was talking about when it comes to fighting organised crime. I was talking about it at last session of the National Assembly, but the culmination of that campaign was the other day on one of Gilas's TV shows, where on one show, I don't know exactly what it's called, but it's a show that's rich in brutal swearing and insults of the worst kind, which two, call the leader. One's name is Marko Vidojkovic, they say he's a writer, believe it or not, they say he's a writer. I only remembered him by the ability to pronounce the record number of the most brutal and most vulgar curses in a short time. The other is called Nenad Kulačin, who is only known to have received money from that Zelenovic from Capca at the time, while he was mayor. Now they've obviously found new sponsors, Gilas and Solak, whom others, and in the last show they've brought in a man everyone in Serbia claims to be a pedophile. I'm pretty serious when I say this. So, everyone in Serbia claims that the man is a pedophile. And on that show, they brought kebabs and ate kebabs during the show, trying to make fun of the fact that some criminals were petting people to try to cover up their crime. Now that's funny to them. Now they're making fun of it. And then they bring the kebabs on the show and they eat the kebabs and they make fun of it. Be careful how monstrous that is. How big a monster you have to be for something like that. So, let's get Vucica, government members, ministers, us MPs, us SNS general, and we get attacked every day, so we Googled it aside, so what kind of monster do you have to be to make fun of the families of the victims that got killed in that way, the victims of some criminals and you make fun of them, by eating blankets in the middle of the show? As long as that madness goes. It just says how nervous they are, it just shows their impotence and it shows what they are capable of in their hatred for Alexander Vukic. We, Mr. Minister, will in no way prevent us from continuing to work even more energetically, even more committed to making Serbia a decent, successful and orderly country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7061	Thank you. The word is Milica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7062	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers and members of the Government and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is also on today's agenda the draft law amending and supplementing the ID law, which I am going to talk about. The proposed amendments to this law will make it easier for citizens to exercise their rights, but also for the general security and security of all citizens and states. I would point out here as very important provisions concerning the addition of the residence address as a mandatory element of the ID form, which, above all, will mean the legal certainty of all citizens, but also the provision relating to the suspension of the fee for the declaration of an invalid ID card in the "Official Messenger", which, if I am not mistaken, amounted to around 798 dinars and, if proposed changes, will be abolished and an invalid ID card will be advertised on the official web presentation of the MUP following the declaration of the solution. What I can't take advantage of today and not to mention, although Minister Vulin isn't there, is the fight against organized crime that our country is determined to fight against, or the most monstrous criminal clan in these areas, which has not overcome absolutely anything. They went to the point where they were listening to the president of the Republic and his family, following them, and what was scariest, they were preparing an attack on him. I really hope that the state authorities will shed light on all the horrors of this criminal group to the end and that every single person who has helped these criminals commit these terrible and monstrous crimes will be enlightened. While on one side we have our country's struggle, a successful fight on all fronts, and the only goal it has, is a successful, economically strong and secure Serbia, on the other hand we have Dragan Gilas, who represents his programme or whatever it is through interviews. He says that anyone who is not under his control, which refers to television or is a journalist, or who is not owned by him, who does not finance, cannot deal with journalism, cannot be a journalist and such television cannot perform its work. He seems to understand the freedom of the media. But what is even more interesting to me, Dragan Gilas says he would like to hear President Vukic's response to Serbia's economic future. Dragan Gilas does not need to worry about Serbia's economic future, which was best managed in Europe in the first quarter of 2021 with a crisis that had the highest GDP growth of all countries in Europe. Dragan Gilas should not take care of Serbia, where today's average salary is 555 euros. Dragan Gilas should be concerned about how to explain Serbia's economic past when he was in power, how to explain the economic presentness of his bank accounts that were created since he was in power and finally explain how it is more expensive than the Preljina-Požega stock. I also hope that Dragan Gilas finally explains to the authorities where he got all that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7063	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I can already imagine what will happen as soon as we finish this work, and what headlines will be on the portals funded, founded and run by Dragan Gilas. There will be again stories about how the unnatural, evil, dictatorial power, led by Alexander Vukic, yells skin with the back of citizens by increasing excise duties. Believe me, it will certainly be that way, because more than once, either directly or indirectly, they wanted to present it to the citizens of Serbia. They usually do that where they estimate that citizens can make the biggest dissatisfaction. Whenever there is a certain disturbance in the price of crude oil, there is talk about it, and oil derivatives are excise goods, how much is the price of motor fuels in the Republic of Serbia, how much does it affect the price of fuel and, most interestingly, it will always find someone among them who will, apart from criticising one such policy and proposing where this money should be spent and that it should not be spent the way they claim, in such a way as the unnatural, dictatorial, evil government led by Aleksandar Vukic. It is their mantra that has been trying to trick citizens of the Republic of Serbia for years. But if we are to speak truthfully and correctly, the excise duties until this law on the territory of the Republic of Serbia have not been changed. It may have been indexed under the Excise Act, they increase by a certain percentage which is related to consumer prices, dinar course etc., but by no law has the basis changed since SNS and Aleksandar Vukic came to power in 2012. Oil excises and derivatives, so motor fuels, are the same. The revenues the state makes per litre are the same. In one part, they argue that excise revenues should be directed towards the construction of road infrastructure. Here, let me say I might agree with them. But, Mr. Minister, they didn't make over 300km of highways, but that evil, unnatural, alienated regime led by Alexander Vukic. If they had the same excise procedures, taxes, how many current regimes, how come the former regime didn't have any results? Do you know of any highways that they've built? I don't know. Do you know of any hospitals that have reconstructed, repaired, done? I don't know. Do you know that some schools have been reconstructed? I don't know. I know that, for example, they robbed citizens of Belgrade in determining the price that parents paid for children going to preschool institutions, and they allegedly advocated an increase in birthrights. The courts ruled that the former regime and Dragan Gilas were wrong. And now we need to secure the means to bring back what he has taken from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to those same citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's a whole story about excises, about taxes, where it's supposed to be that the government doesn't have that money well enough. I'll give you a few examples. They also do so through this fiscal council, which leads Uncle Paul, the grandfather of Paul, what is his name. Mr. Minister, the first thing that was attacked by the Fiscal Council, and very seriously, and today, that mantra is being gardened by both Soskovic and Danica Popovic and Culibrk, which is the 100 euros we gave to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia last year. And the Fiscal Council will always say that out of the 100 euros you give and give to citizens, selectively, indiscriminately, I'm not getting into it at all, just 10% back in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's only for so much tax increase on added value. I don't know if that's true. But let's take a real look. Did that money save any jobs? I am sure -- much more than the state has singled out these 100 euros to every full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia. We've saved a lot of jobs. Let's be as cruel as Fiscal advice so that we don't look at those citizens we've saved jobs for as people with families who have children who have to school, but to look at the way they look at it, purely statistically. If there had been a decline in employment in the Republic of Serbia, would there have been a fall in GDP? I'm sure you would. Absolutely. As soon as someone loses their job, there's no consumption and then we start that chain reaction they had in 2008 or 2009. Was the 600, 700m euros that the state has allocated to its citizens more damage or was it more beneficial that we did not have a gross product drop and that people did not lose their jobs? I think it's more useful than damage. Mr. Minister, now they're attacking for these 30 plus 30 euros, now they're in the way of these 30 euros being given for vaccination. They say we don't know how to vaccinate, that we don't know how to motivate people. For months before that, these same citizens were intimidated by this same vaccine. They say it is an unnecessary cost to which the state is being exposed and that it is used exclusively for pre-election campaign, because elections are about to be called. First we beat Dragan Gilas and Aleksandar Vukic to beat Dragan Gilas, he doesn't need 30 euros to give to the citizens, not 300 euros. It's just one kind of stimulation for citizens to be vaccinated as soon as possible. I must ask one question again, Mr. Minister. Is it more expensive to give these 30 euros, of course, who wants to take them, if they are vaccinated or at least 10 days of emergency, 10 days when nothing works, 10 days when we stop the state? I think those 10 days are more expensive than these 30 euros, who wants to receive them and who received the vaccine before that. It's the majority game that the former regime and Dragan Gilas are playing. I'm just wondering why such aggression, energy to attack everything that is done for the benefit of Serbian citizens. Are they afraid that Alexander Vukic and the SNS might spend that money, so when they come to power they won't have any more where to steal from? Is that one of their reasons? I really don't know, but what I do know for sure is that as they exercised power, taxes and excise duties did not benefit the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They went into their private pockets, into their private companies, to the tycoon corporations led by Delta. The whole of Serbia was, in fact, a victim and private property of five or six people who exploited both citizens and industry and economy. When they start attacking these excise changes, at least we can ask them -- what did you do with those same excises while you were in power? Really Minister, I have to ask again, I don't remember once that they did, I know that one of their highways is gone, the one from Presheva to Vranj, he's been paid, so he's gone, I know that. I know they still pop up for some bridge bill on Beška, and I know that, but they made some new highway I really don't know. Now, they keep complaining -- don't give money to the citizens, open schools, those who haven't reconstructed, done the same, prepared any school. They even laughed at the president in the 2016 campaign when they called him the Prime Minister for toilets and toilets, because he was visiting our schools, because he wanted to see what conditions our children go to these same schools, while they were gardening before and our arrival in power, and to God, for some time after various exotic destinations. I have to ask a question - did part of the excise duties that were charged by 2012 end up in some exotic destinations? There are mentions of Mauritius, of some other countries. Just so we know. Just so the citizens know. The judiciary should do their part of the job. The D.A.'s office should do their part of the job. But if someone was the mayor of Belgrade, we need to know that in those four years when he was mayor he increased his wealth, I think, seven thousand times. Is it small? It's time to answer those questions, not tell us how we don't know how to count, he's, like, an engineer, so he knows. No, he knows how to steal. We all know we're counting, but Dragan Gilas knows how to steal, he knows how to hide it, not good enough not to reveal it, but it's the only thing he knows. Regardless, our job is firstly to ensure the conditions for the state to function, that pensions and salaries are paid, to enable health care, that Serbia is rebuilt and taken up place on the globe it belongs to, and I hope that in some near future, Dragan Gilas will take the place that belongs to it. She's gonna be my neighbor in a place near a fireman named Zabela. We'll wait for him. We hope he stays here for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7065	I thank Mr. Arsic. The word is Rajka Matovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7066	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, we have two very important laws, the Excise Act and the Personal Card Act. The ID law was passed in 2006, and the last amendment to this law was made six years ago. Conditions have been created for changing this law in the direction of digitisation, and in order to facilitate the exercise of citizens' rights, as well as to increase general security. In fact, these amendments to the law reduce going to the counters, reduce unnecessary paperwork, but what is most important reduces the time and costs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Some of the most important items of the amendments to this law are that if there is a loss of ID, citizens will no longer have to publish an invalid ID card in the Official Messenger, but will, on their official web presentation, issue it invalid. Only on this case can we see how much savings and time and money our citizens have. Also, in the microchip itself on the ID card, certificates for electronic identification and qualified electronic signatures are entered, making the identity card a means of identifying the distance, i.e. a qualified means of creating an electronic signature of a high level of reliability. We're all witnesses to a crisis caused by a pandemic of the coronary virus and we've had benefites from digitization. Our country started the digitization process, but unfortunately during the pandemic of the coronal virus, the school had to switch to that line of teaching. Electronic business has already gone a long way in our economy, and e-Government is daily expanding its capabilities. Today in Belgrade, instead of a bunch of paper when enrolling a child in kindergarten, you fill out a few forms and fill out the forms on the e-Government portal and enroll the child in kindergarten. The era of digitization is not some era of the distant future but of the time we live in today. Our country headed by the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic conducts the digitalisation process as well as all other processes very speedy because we really don't have time to sit around and wait for the arms to be cut off. Unlike the former tycoon regime, which devastated the state and every dinar that could have watched him put in private pockets, President Alexander Vukic and SNS's priority is a stable state, a strong Serbia which is clearly on the European path, but also has its friends in both the east and the west, and should be the headquarters in the region. In the previous period, we showed excellent crisis management so that our country didn't stop in 2020. On the contrary, we reduced unemployment and increased the average earnings in 2020. Foreign investment did not stop, but we have a total inflow of foreign direct investment more than all of the countries in the region combined. That's certainly commendable. We have begun a very extensive fight against corruption and organised crime. One of the most cruel criminal groups in our territory has been arrested. Today Veliko Belivuk and his entire group are located where they belong, but we cannot stop there. The trust given to us by the citizens obliges us to cut each leg of this criminal group to its root, to do our best to root out the corruption that unfortunately went into all the pores of our society. There's a lot of work ahead of us in every area and we can't stop. Today, Serbia represents a serious partner in the world for both foreign direct investment and fighting organised crime, but also for major international projects. Thanks to the enormous efforts of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have not allowed any of the citizens of Kovid 19 to be given adequate medical assistance. Among the first, we had secured vaccines from four different manufacturers, and at enough doses, we built two new hospitals that were intended only for patients with coronary virus, and the third hospital is currently under construction. Then we turn around and see that private portals, private televisions, the private newspaper Dragan Gilas only create bitter taste. We remember all their robbery privatisations, all their affairs, crazy projects that have been paid and a few dozen times more, the most expensive bridge in the world to proudly praise Dragan Gilas. I suppose that pride he boasted so much was proportional to his percentage of what he had built in. I will only remind you that the city of Belgrade has filed criminal charges for the construction of a bridge on Ada v. N. A person, and it's about corruption. He had a percentage of Dragan Gilas on other projects and on underground containers, Spanish trams, so you best, ministers, remember how much debt Dragan Gilas left in the city of Belgrade. He left a debt in the city of Belgrade of over 1.2 billion euros and accounts to him and companies all over the world. Today, in his personal public voices, there are the most disgusting lies about both the president of the Republic of Serbia and the entire Vucic family, as well as every member of the SNS. As I said, the trust of the citizens who have shown us, who show us in every election, obliges us to work every day to make Serbia a better place to live in every way. Trust of the citizens is a great reward, but also a great punishment. Today, representatives of the yellow tycoon regime are at the political dump with the will of the citizens, and I believe they belong there. I will support a set of proposed laws in the voting day along with my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7067	Thank you, colleague Matovic. Let's move on. In order of my colleague, Djordje Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7068	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about important legislative solutions, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law that concern exactly the harmonisation of our legislation with the EU, i.e. with their legislation. This stems from our obligations in pre-accession negotiations. As far as all these solutions are concerned, they are primarily aimed at helping our citizens here to have better services, a better quality of life, and that may be more important than the accession process itself. Because here when we talk about the ID card, about the changes and additions of the ID card Act, what's important is that we reduce administrative costs, reduce the weather costs, the simple time it takes for citizens to sign off on a personal card, and so these are all positive legal solutions where we directly affect the quality of life itself for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. My colleagues talked more about it, we're introducing a modern electronic ID card. So we're going to have a lot of lower costs and above all when it comes to our citizens, but this is all about the economy itself. For years, the economy has been persistent about where the main problems are, it is the businessmen who say that the biggest problem when we talk about doing business in our country at all, and the three bureaucratic procedures and these laws directly affect, therefore, the recovery of the economy itself and the improvement of the direct conditions that today's economy has. In 2016, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic put it as something that is at the top of priorities, digitisation, in 2018, we adopted the Electronic Business Act. The other day, we also adopted several legal solutions here, such as the law on invoices, the Law on the Register of Administrative Procedures, today when we talk about ID cards, all of which definitely improves Serbia and places it on the list of those countries that are and how they advocate the digitisation of the administration itself and thus makes it easier for citizens to live. Not just to the citizens, we're talking about the economy. Generally, when it comes to investors, it is always the subject of all the negotiations that we have with the businesses that come, with investors, in our state of DSF and everyone else and American companies, so they definitely affect it, telling us where the problems are, where we need to improve these procedures that exist in our country. For years I have already said this agenda is being implemented, it is on the agenda from 2016 to 2020. It's also digitisation at the top of our country's quality, and when we talk about investors themselves, we said, so that's their main point right now, somewhere in our country is that these three bureaucratic procedures led to the slowdown of this investment process. Today it's all so much faster, here we see and the other day President Alexander Vukic was right in the district where I come from, the investments are coming, there's no more, so there's no place, no village, no district in our country where you don't have an investment. For years ahead, the president has been waiting for this big investment, and the president promised to work on a big investment. It means safety for citizens in Prepolje, it means more jobs. Compared to that, in Priboj we had big problems up until a few years ago, so we managed to bring in certain investors who affected that all those citizens who worked there earlier at FAP, today they have a secure job, which means safe stay in Priboj and Prepolje in all the municipalities below that have been neglected for years. And the fact that it was a case before we all know, so the Zlatibor County was a black hole in Serbia, nothing was invested, 45 years we had no, any state investments, incentives, not to talk about a rolling road, rail infrastructure, all of this is coming on the agenda today. And we also had the opportunity to hear the president announcing not only investment in Prepolje, but the general industrial zone will be founded on the whole track when we talk about Milos the Great highway that has already reached Cačka, we expect to see Požega early next year. This will affect that you have industrial zones in the whole move and that it will be an indication of where to come and, of course, we will try, all of our district's municipalities to respond properly to the arrival of the highway, i.e. by forming industrial zones to show the economy, i.e. investors should invest. And not only is the economy here encouraged by this coming highway, and how will we have the recovery of tourism. Generally, I will not be immodest when I say that the Zlatibor County by wealth, by natural resources, is the most beautiful district in Serbia. And if you look at you have an Uvac, you have Drina, Zlatibor, Wecru Gora, Zavina, Tara, so you have absolutely one beautiful natural part in our country that we can and how to valorize the rna touristic way, i.e. to bring tourism and to show the tour operators what are all the beauty that we have to offer them today. It'll all be possible when the highway arrives. While you don't have a highway, while you don't have an infrastructure, while you don't have an airport, as we've known for years, here we've been waiting 20 years for Ponikva's recovery, right here the other day Mr. Momirovic was talking about planning to implement this project to finally get the Poniks back to Uzic, to bring once more, I say, that the complete infrastructure is being restored in that area. When we speak, we have to look back at the railway infrastructure, you haven't had any investment in years. Today you have that share from Zlatibor to Prijepolje, the railway Belgrade – Bar, is finally revitalising, and that's it. I'm saying everything we've been waiting for for for decades today when the state is standing on stable feet, it can come on the agenda. That wasn't the case before, and that's why I'm saying that we had one hole, we didn't have absolutely any investment in our district for decades after us. Today we are really lucky to talk about all these things, because we have a full state register and President Alexander Vukic has said that more and more will be invested right in the Zlatibor County and that is what makes us all happy there. This means the survival of young people, it means that of all people, not only young people in their places, and it is absolutely something that the SNS, the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic stand for. When it comes to amendments and additions to the second law that is on the agenda today, the Excise Act, we are also making changes in the part where we are doing harmonisation of our legislation with European legislation, and that is certainly important. Mr. Arsic, who spoke before me, just said what was the point. We expect these days to start canonads from these Gilas media, as well, we raise taxes, it will raise the price of alcoholic beverages and we are talking about people who are absolutely without any idea attacking everything that is done in Serbia. When we speak here, yes, we definitely need to bring our legislation into line with European legislation, it stems from our obligation and of course the excise duties of certain stronger alcoholic beverages will go up. No one is talking on the other hand about how much Serbia has just invested through the Ministry of Agriculture, through the Agrarian Payments Administration, specifically in domestic agricultural production, especially when it comes to alcoholic drink producers. When we talk about it, we can't help but recall the fact that the transitional year and this year is recordable at the amounts the state gives through the Ministry of Agriculture, precisely for encouraging farmers and generally people who produce brandy. This year, and the minister knows, we've allocated record funds. Each user can claim state subsidies, ranging from 400,000 to 40 million dinars. That is almost 400,000 euros that can be drawn from the budget by the producers of brandy and alcoholic beverages, and that has never been the case before. We can't help but realize that you've never had this much investment in the state before, not just in the roads, the infrastructure, but specifically in agriculture and everything we need in Serbia today. You see, we're talking about agriculture as a developmental opportunity. Here today, specifically about strong alcoholic beverages. So, if the state gives you 400,000 euros to help people who do this production, it's to rebuild and manufacture, to buy new machines, said to build buildings, 60% of that money is irreversible. So, absolutely when we talk about excises, taxes, everything that we have on the agenda here today, of course we need taxes and excises to fill the budget from which we will later finance all these projects and improve the position of every man in our country. There would be no roads, no hospitals, no schools, we wouldn't have a rate this high if we didn't have a stable financial situation, and that means stable taxes, stable excises, etc. I must point out that by helping Serbian rakia producers, the state directly helps something that is a national brand in our country. We can't start at prices. We think of ourselves as our national drink, if we put it in rank, you know how much it sells on black, for 300, 400 liters of the best Serbian plum. Of course, we will encourage excise duties that people who produce brandy, produce it and sell it in a better way, that the state helps them place their product and that a liter of Serbian brandy must cost as much as a liter of whiskey. It can't cost a liter of whiskey more than a liter of good brandy. You know, it's just not normal for fruit products to be cheaper than cereal and what they put in whiskey. We have a national treasure, so the Serbian rakija should be encouraged, the state encourages, giving money precisely to produce here something that foreigners also experience as our biggest national brand. We do it today, I say it one more time, we encourage it. The state has money, it gives money to everyone who wants to produce brandy, we give incredible amounts, you have no such high incentives in Europe, that you can withdraw from the country 400,000 euros, 60% grants. So, exactly the state wants these incentive measures to know that agriculture is our development chance, that people who are dealing with the production of brandy have state aid, but of course the excise has to follow it all, because it's not the state that we're pulling money from and giving people, we're giving infrastructure, we're building hospitals, so we have to have one clear tax policy, excises, of course, that in that sense we need to finance all of this. I say once again, we will vote in the voting day for all these proposed amendments and amendments to the law, because they are simply in line with European legislation, in this way we harmonize our legislation with European legislation and this is necessary because of our membership in the European Union. As the president said, we expect in June already to open cluster 3 – to join. That's what we've been waiting for all the years before, we've been persistently working hard here and all these changes and additions to the laws that we're adopting today are aimed at getting into the European Union as quickly as possible, and that means we have this standard that we're talking about, and that's the European standard of life that we all want here. Once again, we'll vote for all these points on the agenda. Hello.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7069	Thank you, colleague Dabic. Next on the list is Mrs Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7070	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have two laws before us today – the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excise. The Electoral Group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children", there is no dilemma, in the voting day will support both legislative solutions, for the simple reason that one and the other legal solution improves the quality of life of each of our citizens, simplifys all administrative procedures in line with the government's plan "Stop Bureau", but also when it comes to excises, there are conditions for building new highways, new schools, new hospitals, because we know that excise revenues are budget revenues. What I want to point out, which is the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on the ID card, I can say from today's point of view, which is, of course, thanks to the policy of the Government and the policy of Alexander Vukic and the process of digitising our country, our country today and by 2012, when it comes to digitisation, is not the same country. It's a completely different country. Of course, I would like to commend these amendments and the additions of the Personal Card Act, because it is evident that the Ministry has seen all the shortcomings that may be difficult for citizens, and in order to make ID cards, especially the part relating to the loss of ID cards and the funds that the citizens were obliged to allocate to publish in the "Official Messenger" first and then, of course, apply for a ID card. These amendments and additions to the law show the Ministry of the Interior, the Department for the Making of Personal Cards, serves the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is a service for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for jobs for them, or those who lose their personal ticket of advertising invalidity, will be announced after a solution has been made on the official website of the Ministry of the Interior. I can't help but remind myself of the procedure for issuing ID cards for our citizens until 2012. At the very least, I can say that by 2012, our citizens had to take a vacation or an unpaid leave to go from tent to counter, to go to other cities where they were born, or where they were enrolled in citizens' home books to bring that pile of paper to the police station, to the department of making ID cards, and, of course, long after that. So it was the process of making ID cards at the time of the rule of Dragan Gilas, a bank robber. But that's not all, there were 30,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia at the time of the international regime of Dragan Gilas, people's money robbers, who didn't even have the right to a ID card, because they simply existed, but legally they didn't exist, they weren't included in birth certificates, or in citizens' home books, they had no right to ID cards, and therefore Dragan Gilas threatened their fundamental human rights, their right to identity, their right to health care, their right to education. Fortunately, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have recognised the power of the Serbian Progressive Party, we have amended these legal regulations, we have amended the Law on the Extraparnical Procedure and now the largest number of these citizens have obtained the right to a personal document, i.e. on a personal map, which is the basis for the exercise of other rights, especially when it comes to the rights of the administrative procedure. These draft laws, amendments and additions to the Law on the ID card, and how the interests of minors, those of 16 to 18 years of age were also taken into account, in that they are in accordance with the law and are intended to have a personal card and it is intended that only one parent's consent is required for the issue of the identity card, regardless of whether he performs the parental duty. It certainly is in the interest of these minors, because we know that a large number of these minors are educated outside the city, or outside of the municipality they live in, to travel through public transport, to go out in the evening, and that certainly the lack of ID is a violation. In that sense, it's certainly a major shift. I must also point out that, when it comes to the country's economic progress, Serbia is taking big steps towards those countries that are victorious. Serbia for the first time, led by Aleksandra Vukic, is praised for the results that are real and realistic in all segments of our society, and one of the goals that has been outlined, of course, that the country would be healthy, which President Aleksandar Vukic drew, is a determined and organised fight against the mafia, crime and corruption. The interior ministry, first on the bumper, has shown that no one is stronger than the state and that all those involved in crime and monstrosity must be brought to justice by the criminal group Belivuk-Miljkovic. May 20th in Priboj was a big day. On May 21st, Priboj, who, at the time of the government of the yellow tycoon company, called the Valley of Hunger, was visited by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic. In Priboj and Prijepolje, the municipalities of Zlatibor County, mostly before came the presidents of the state during their campaigns and during these campaigns were mostly offering lies, nonsense and deception, only until the vote passed. This time, citizens of Priboj and Prepolje, with great pleasure and great luck, welcomed the largest statesman, Alexander Vukic, who also knew that he recognized the importance of these municipalities in southwestern Serbia, and how he knew to help empower these municipalities, so that citizens living in Priboj and Prijepolje could stay and live in their municipalities. I must point out that during the time of the yellow tycoon company by 2012, seven thousand FAP workers were mostly declared technological surpluses, and those who remained to work were not paid their salaries, not paid their contributions and taxes for PIO, had no certified health books or their children, and of course FAP had huge debts, for example, to pay for electricity. As early as 2012, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic recognized the strategic importance of the Municipality of Priboj and thanks above all to its policy, its involvement in the car factory, one part, thanks to orders from the Ministry of Defence, and I hope now and from the Ministry of Police, he produced trucks, and today he manufactures combat vehicles for the needs of the military and police, and all based on the vision and ideas of Alexander Vukic. After 40 years in Pribo, Aleksandar Vukic attended the opening of a German investor factory that employs 400 workers, 70% of workers are women. Otherwise, the factory was built according to the most modern European standards. Also, apart from this factory where the investor is German, the hotel is open in Priboj and the private hotel "Termo 36.6" otherwise the temperature of Banjska water in Pribojska Banja. The hotel was opened by a Prebojec, a man who worked abroad for years and decided to return to Priboj and do something for his city to open this hotel. What is significant in visiting President Aleksandr Vukic, and in order to further economically strengthen these municipalities and Priboj and Prijepolje, he said these municipalities will be connected to the gas, which is certainly one of the conditions for the arrival of investors, but what is significant for the Pribojs has promised already since 1 October to build the Kokin Ship – a Priboj in which the state will invest eight million euros. Citizens of Serbia, as well as citizens of the Zlatibor district know well in the future them and their children can only be led by the politics of Aleksandr Vukic, so she has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7071	Thank you, ma'am, Jevtović Vukojičić. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7072	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers Mali, Mr Lazic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very inspired by these speeches by my colleagues, especially Djorđa Dabic and Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić and we, both here and in Belgrade and in Serbia, should be heartened because our country led by Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the first time almost in recent history in decades takes care of parts of Serbia, such as western Serbia. I think that the previous regimes weren't on the map either, they didn't know, nor were they ever in Prepolje, or in Novi Varosha, or in Priboj, they were absolutely not interested in everything that came out of the circle of the two, and today we can testify that after what they've brought, and these new terms of enterprises in restructuring, unemployed workers, failed privatisations, we have the opening of new factories, new greenfield investments in those cities and in that region, we have foreign direct investments, we have a lot of potential, that especially young people living in these cities and in that area remain there, exploit all the potentials that the region has and that region. That is what it is and what is the essence of our policy, the essence of SNS policy to keep of course young people here, to speed up and to invest as much in education, in science, in new technologies and to create such an environment that in all parts of the Republic of Serbia can live well and quality and that young people do not have any absolute need to come from some Priboja, Prepolje or any other city of western, eastern, southern Serbia in Belgrade, but that they can remain on their hearths to work and to live honestly, honestly and with dignity from their own work. For the first time, we have the opportunity, of course thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, who had a clear strategy of equal regional development and therefore we have the same importance of opening up the factory and prosperity both citizens in Belgrade, citizens in Novi Sad and in every part of the Republic of Serbia. Whether it is done to a small or large municipality, wherever it is, what is the essence of our policy is that in every municipality as small or as small as it is, we open up a factory and lead the way to that place, to build a infrastructure. We can imagine the reaction of citizens of the same Prepolje, Nova Varoshi, Priboj, when mentioned to them and when it is certain now that it will be carried out and gassed in their region. I think someone mentioned this to them six, seven or eight years ago, I think they would view it as science fiction given how much this country is and how much this previous regime absolutely meant or invested in undeveloped parts of the Republic of Serbia. This government has a clear strategy, has a clear goal, has enough knowledge, enough people who want to make sure that each part of Serbia can develop in one good and quality way. Of course, when we talk about the Law on ID cards, we are talking about that the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia is adapting itself to the policy of the Government of Serbia, which aims to make the state administration, or bureaucracy faster and to be at the service of citizens and businesses, which is, of course, a key aspect of their existence and their functioning, given that we want to make such an environment through digitisation, through the acceleration and acceleration of all possible processes and procedures within our state administration and relations with citizens and businesses, that this is the way that citizens and businesses spend as little time on such matters and, of course, turn to things that create a certain added value. We have shown this, given that Serbia has become the economic leader of the region and has become a country in which all investors across the globe are happy to come and gladly invest their capital. Of course, I must say that the MUP has laid very good foundations concerning what may be most important at this time for our national security and most important for the further development of the state, and this is an unfavourable and uncompromising fight against organised crime, against corruption and the protection of Serbia in every area and the protection of our national interests. What the MUP of the Republic of Serbia has done in the past few months, given that it has broken the Belivuk-Miljkovic criminal clan, given that it has completely devastated all these mafia elements that, for their ultimate purpose, had been eliminated, namely the murder of President Aleksandar Vukic and the elimination of his family, says there is a clear political will when it comes to protecting national interests, when it comes to protecting the most important institutions of the Republic of Serbia. We remain only to see in the next period how both the judicial and judicial authorities will behave in this case, as we expect in parliament an effective reaction and expect to be brought before the justice court, all those involved in this and those who are perpetrators and those who are political mentors, and ultimately to know who the mentors who have come and who were of course part of this action, and are part of the region and are part of those structures that are not involved in our country, but are in their interest that Serbia is not strong. It is not in their interest for Serbia to push a little more heads, it is not in their interest for Serbia to be the economic leader of the region, to be the first in the process of vaccination and immunisation, to be the first in economic growth, but, of course, they want to make it equal in certain poverty and to be equal in failure. Serbia, fortunately the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and fortunately the state itself and our future, has emerged from these frameworks of the Western Balkan states. We can expect an economic growth of 6% this year. Minister Mali announced today that we will have a new agreement with the IMF in early June. To be clear, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our viewers, this agreement does not provide for any money, no loans, no loans, but for the advisory role of the IMF, and how important the role of the IMF is and these agreements are so important that every serious investor who wants to invest in the country is also looking at what is one of the first things he is checking when it comes to planning a particular investment is whether the country has good and how deep relations with the IMF. You have both the situation and the example that when we made a strategic agreement with the UAE that one of the preconditions for the conclusion of this business of the century, of historical work, was that Serbia was an economically and financially stable state and that it had an agreement, among other things, with the IMF. Of course, the further that has defined everything that is happening in our city and in our country in terms of investment, in terms of large capital projects and, of course, in terms of infrastructure. I will end up saying and appeal to the Home Secretary to be determined and to be as effective as he has shown he can and can in the past few months. It is a strength, it is a pillar of our state. On the other hand, the President of the Republic of Serbia has had several diplomatic victories in just the past few weeks, reminding citizens of the Republic of Serbia at the summit on Kranj, where it simply showed how sovereign Serbia is today, how much integrity it has and how much it is as a leader of someone who has integrity in the international community, that it is about those famous non-paipers, opposition to a certain part of the international community, etc. and change, the change of boundaries said -- yes, we are the first to support this principle of international law and the obligation of states to simply respect internationally recognised borders and all those states and all that is prescribed by UN conventions. So, he didn't give in to any pressures, although of course there was a lot of challenges and a lot of potential conflicts, and I'm talking about that after decades of non-money states, a state that doesn't oppose everything, but we have great initiatives, we support good initiatives, we support regional integration, we support regional co-operation, and of course, great forces and all those who disagree with us in this domain, let's say, Kosovo and Metohija have to admit and have to say that Serbia is a good and, of course, a reliable partner. After that, I must also mention a meeting with NATO Secretary-General, after that meeting with Mr. Stoltenberg was provided and a clear message was sent to the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, but also to Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija that Serbia would fiercely defend its own interests and that nothing would leave the case and we received clear promises from NATO that there was absolutely no intention, nor any indication that KFOR forces could leave Kosovo and Metohija's territory and leave it to ROSU units or so on. The Kosovo Security Service. It is a very difficult daily work, full of challenges, which of course should not be burdened, here by internal instability or by God, by actions that were planned and as the president himself said by experts in the area, it was only a few days short for a scenario that would not be good and would completely destroy the future of the Republic of Serbia, so that Ministers, Vulin, I congratulate you on this weekend when we had one situation here in Belgrade, to send a bad message to all those who view Belgrade today as a unique tourist and economic political centre in this region. That reaction was like one serious and legal state, and this is a message to everyone who wants to violate such an image and such integrity, and to our capital and the whole state. Of course, we here as a majority in parliament, as SNS, with our coalition partners, will give strong support in this fight against organised crime and corruption and we will provide and work to ensure all conditions that the president of our country can, in the best possible and most qualitative way, fight for Serbian national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7073	Thank you, Professor Marinkovic. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7074	President-in-Office, Madam Vice-President, Vice-President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, it is my pleasure to have the opportunity to defend, in the remaining time of the debate, the laws that the Government has laid before you, to present to the citizens of Serbia, but also to hear arguments, why these laws should be better, what we need to change, how we should do them with a text that will change people's lives for the better. I believe that these legal texts, change people's lives for the better, free them from unnecessary bureaucracy, to adapt real life, not real life, and that must always be a virtue to every legislative work. Thank you and for mentioning, all of this that has been happening in recent weeks is and it is a topic, and it is always to be discussed, because if the National Assembly is not going to discuss what our foreign political position is, how this country is run, where this country is going, and then I don't know who else is qualified to do it, and certainly not some group that declares themselves to the congregations, so they shout in the squares and give themselves the legitimacy that the voters haven't given them. You know, President Aleksandar Vukic, he didn't experience it, but he's already elected something we couldn't even dream of before 2012, which is that one president, EU member and NATO member, I think of Milos Zeman, is sorry for the bombing of Serbia. Our predecessors, Alexander Vukic, went around apologizing to whom they arrived, and whoever wanted to hear them, they apologized. Whoever wanted to give them so much time to play, they apologized, from Javier Solana, whom they were waiting for, not yet healed properly, yet smoked from the bombing, waiting for him on the red carpet. And we have experienced that the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, did not win, but chose that the president of a NATO state apologized for the bombing and crimes and the evil done to this country. It's not an accident and it's the fruit of persistent and patient struggle, it's something that I couldn't even imagine in 2012, when I first went to Brussels, and when we were just getting the papers, on which we weren't supposed to put the signature, but just to carry them out, because the signature on those papers was put by our predecessors, to introduce the borders, to remove the table, to remove the Serbian documents and to lift everything that's Serbian in KIM space. In 2012, if someone had told me that the head of a NATO state would apologize to the Serbian people and president of the Republic of Serbia, I would say it was a beautiful wish and a beautiful idea, but it would never happen. And here, it happened. And it didn't happen, it fought. You can criticize President Vukic as much as you want, but this is history and this will remain written in history, no one has apologized to those who apologized for other people's crimes, as if they were ours, but apologized to a man who did not allow the state of Serbia and the Serb people to be marked genocide. It will remain written in history. I am very proud to share with you the honor given to us by Serbian citizens to participate in the leadership of a Serbian state that has started to be so valuable and so brave. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am before you for every explanation, every question and, of course, I expect a fruitful and successful discussion from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7075	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7076	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have already had the opportunity to hear from distinguished colleagues about the results achieved by the Republic of Serbia in the digitisation process. What I'm trying to say is that this digitalisation process itself, which was initiated thanks to President Alexander Vukic's policy, has produced results at this time of the Corona, especially in the section of the fight against the Corona in the case of vaccination. Otherwise, the Republic of Serbia has invested a lot of funds in developing the digital economy. A lot of funding has been invested in encouraging young innovators, people dealing with the IT sector, which is why the IT sector itself makes a significant contribution to our GDP, but also to the percentages of our GDP growth for which, as you know, it is not only the forecast that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made but also international institutions that by the end of this year will be 6% of real growth. The state has also invested a lot of funds in the construction of the National Data Centre in Kragujevac, which will help further the digitalisation process, because we have created conditions that we can and as a state provide services to other businesses and companies when it comes to the storage of information itself, but it will also give further momentum to the development of the eGovernment portal through which, as we see, the very procedures are significantly simplified, with which citizens of the Republic of Serbia can exercise their rights, including some of the colleagues mentioned in the process of enrolling children in kindergartens, enrolment of children in schools etc. It's done a lot when we talk about the development of the economy, in the process of communication between employers, communication with state institutions, and now we're going one step further, we're going with amendments and additions to the Personal Card Act, we're going in step with time, and we're going to use our own ID card, which you know we've been using chipped for many years, so that citizens can effectively achieve their rights. There's been a discussion here about what's changed, but I'll do it again anyway. Mostly when we talk about people who lost their ID cards, earlier procedures were that they had to report to the competent police administration, after the payment of fees said that the ID card was invalid through the "Official Messenger". It is now interrupted thanks to the programme that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is implementing, which is called "Stop Bureaucracies", because this obligation will have an MUP, which will, of course, be published on its web presentation, in accordance with the digitalisation process we are talking about, following a report of the disappearance of the ID card, that this ID card is invalid. When we talk about older minors, people over the age of 16 will now be able to achieve their right to a personal card more effectively and better because it is enough that only one parent submits a request for a personal card and that parent who has obtained custody rights, thus improving this process ourselves. What is very important to say is that now the ID becomes and will contain certificates relating to the valid signature of the citizen himself, which will facilitate the submission of the request through the E-Government portal itself, the exercise of rights in this way, the reduction of the crowds, the need for people for certain requirements to come out, go to the counter and spend their time in this way, as colleagues used to say earlier in the time of people who did not even think about how to improve the lives of citizens in the yellow tycoon times, they did not care, it was important that they only filled their pockets, and did not care at all how citizens can effectively exercise their rights, in addition to effectively using their time they have, and not to spend their free days at work in order for the simple things that the state should give them to achieve. What is very important is to note that now in the form of ID cards will be inserted and data related to the residence. This has not been so far, but it is also very important for the legal certainty of the business that citizens will be doing to make this information available. Also, what is very important, all this newspaper will ensure the security of reliable procedures themselves, especially when we talk about these electronic signatures of citizens, but also the legal security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is one of the important segments of SNS policy that it is conducting. When we talk about the Excise Act, respected colleagues spoke, and counterparts Dabic and counterpart Arsic about what we expect from this opposition in the coming period when it comes to these changes, but certainly this is another piece of evidence that we as a state are going to be determined to EU and that we are harmonising our regulations with EU directives, but in addition, this is one of the obligations that we have made and the signing of the EU accession agreement, which is why we will respect these principles. Unlike some of the predecessors who are now in opposition, who have found to speak, at one point in the market economy, at some point in time about some kind of socialist plan economy, we are here to ensure respect for the full principles when we talk about the market economy and to provide all market participants with equal conditions for business, but certainly as a state, we are helping prosperous branches, which is talked about by a respected colleague Dabic when we talk about agriculture and agricultural producers, that we can make the most of our potentials as a country and that we can place it on the EU market, which, by the way, our biggest partner when we talk about external trade activities, otherwise, it is a huge market that we should definitely win both at quality and our brands that we can really praise. Of course, we as a parliamentary group will absolutely support any other proposals concerning further reform and improving the environment in relation to the Republic of Serbia, both business and citizens' lives. What I want to point out, and because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia themselves, is that thanks to the reforms that have been implemented since 2012, especially in 2014, we have made significant progress in the EU accession, i.e. we have harmonised a large number of segments and laws when it comes to EU directives, which we were expected to do. Of course, when we combine what we have today and what we had before 2012 we see significant improvements. Otherwise, we could hear our esteemed President, Alexander Vukic, yesterday who published a significant statistical data, which is that in March of this month, we achieved an average earnings in the Republic of Serbia of 555 euros, something that we could only imagine before 2012, which is otherwise twice the value of the salaries that the then-yellow tycoon regime provided to the citizens of Serbia, not only those who worked in the public sector, but when we talk about the market environment that existed there. So, the president said nice. When compared statistically, he took over the prime minister's post in 2014. At that time, the average salary in Serbia was 330 euros. This is a significant quantitative leap when we talk about citizens' incomes, but it is not only about the average of profit statistics, we have provided a stable exchange rate from 2012 to today, a low stable inflation which, even by certain segments, is better and compared to a large number of countries within the EU, the unemployment rate in Serbia is less than 10%, and it was achieved at the time of the pandemic, the coronary crisis, when in a large number of countries you had the layoff of people where they remained unemployed, where you had a growth in unemployment rate. In this period we have achieved a large number, an inflow of foreign direct investment, which makes us recordmakers and champions, especially in the region. This is what we achieved in previous years, although such a single thing could not be expected, a large number of new factories, a large number of new jobs that have been opened. So, here we are not only talking about a quantitative leap when it comes to profits and certain statistical parameters, but also about a qualitative leap in the quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which was significant. By the way, we see that these reforms that we've implemented, but also the digitalisation process, have contributed significantly to the fight against the crown in this period. The state, thanks to all these reforms, has provided funds so that we also have sufficient amounts of vaccines. The vaccination process is successfully carried out, we have developed a system thanks to which I am normally doing well, and it is recognised by both our people and by people outside Serbia, but what is very important is that we say by these opposition men who only try to criticise each day for criticism, to attack, spit without any arguments, especially our President Alexander Vukic, but also anyone who supports and who helps to carry out his policy successfully. We had the slightest percentage of the downturn in the economy last year, precisely because these reforms were implemented, thanks to the fact that there is discipline when it comes to policy implementation. It is very important to say that as a state, we have had enough resources to provide three packages of measures to both citizens and businesses so that we can make it through this period together. What is very important now is that my colleagues have also potentiated, and I am joining this appeal, that citizens of the Republic of Serbia respond to vaccination, especially younger categories, because vaccination is the best way to beat the crown, prevent its further expansion, and that we are slowly moving back to that normal we knew before the start of this pandemic, before 2020. All these indicators speak clearly about the success of our country's work. What's more important is that we've never had eight highways built in our history, we've never had more construction sites and projects that are being realized, right at the time of the pandemic, when a large number of states have had to withdraw their investments and have not successfully solved them, and I'm particularly proud of the work around the Moravian Corridor, given that I'm a Kruševian and I'm proud of every day when I'm going down the road to Belgrade or anywhere and when I see these works progress intensively. I am absolutely sure and convinced of what President Vukic said, that by the end of the year we will achieve an average profit of 600 euros, that we will successfully implement the 2025 "Serbia" plan by 2025, when the average salary will be 900 euros, pensions of 440 euros. What's very important to say is that by the end of the year we will surely achieve this growth of the economy of 6%, real growth of the economy, and that's not just something we claim, it's something that international organisations claim and every time they correct their forecasts precisely because we successfully implement our policy. Based on what we've done, we're going to make Serbia truly unrecognizable after 2025 compared to the period it was before 2012, which is usually a period that citizens are certainly trying to forget. But we must not forget, we must remember what the people who led the state then did, because such people, like Tadic, Gilas, Jeremic and his current associates, Bosko Obradovic and others, must not allow them to return to their chairs and continue their robbery until then, because the only thing they were interested in in in that period was the politics of their own deep pocket, how they would fill him, and how Serbian citizens would live and whether they could meet their needs, they absolutely didn't care. They can freely continue to work as hard as they want, through their media and through social networks and lawsuits abroad and seeking sponsors abroad to return to their chairs, but in the end it is the citizens of Serbia who decide who will lead this country, and I am sure that citizens in the elections will confirm that the only real policy is being implemented by Aleksandar Vucic, and that this is the only real policy that can contribute to Serbia and Serbia's citizens' progress towards a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7077	Thank you. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7078	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I rarely get to talk about the laws that are on the agenda, so today I'm going to take this opportunity to say something about these laws. I will try not to repeat what my colleagues have said so far, but I will try to say something that may not have been said. I'm not going to talk about the I.D. Act, because I really don't have anything to say, I think it's all said and it's all familiar. I'd like to refer to this Excise Act. I'm very surprised that I haven't heard one of my colleagues from Valjev, from Chačka, from Bajina Basta, one of my countrymen from the south, from some Shumadinian, say a word in the protection of brandy, plums, dunes, crouchers, and I don't know how many of these rakias Serbia is famous for and recognizable in the world. When you meet a stranger and you go to a restaurant, where you usually end these conversations, each one of them -- a splinter, a splinter -- everyone knows about our brandy as something we're recognizable by. Now, what surprises me? I'm surprised that we underestimate what's good for us and what we're recognizable for. Here, I'd like to ask my colleague Dabic, but he's out, he's not here, but I'd like my colleague Dabic to tell me where to buy that good Serbian brandy for 300 dinars? I like brandy, I like to drink it, and I know a lot of people who are experts, and they know brandy. As far as I know, you can't find and buy good Serbian brandy, pure, right, that it's not some kind of mess or an expert without 10 euros. I understand that Serbia is taking on a commitment to join the EU to bring its laws into line with EU laws. And I don't mind. But there's something else. Why would Serbia, its brand, its brandy, which is far better, in my opinion three spears are better than all these alcoholic beverages from EU countries, I don't like whiskey, I don't drink whiskey, but whenever someone offers me whiskey, I say - I'm a peasant, a Serbian, I prefer brandy, if I can have brandy. So I think we could have made a little deviation and say -- the law is proposed, adopted, etc. But in the final provisions, we could only add -- this law comes into force after three years of Serbia's entry into the EU. Now, that's not just for brandy plums, not plums, it's for brandy at all, today it's brandy on wallpaper. But we will be conditioned by the EU to accept that it will not benefit us. I don't think it's a good idea for us to take off very early and accept all these laws, and that our entry into the EU is very, very far away. It's a well-intentioned advice from a university professor, so whoever likes to think and who doesn't like it, I don't mind. There's something else I want to say. I'm sorry the finance minister left, but there's his associates, so I believe it's enough for them to say it, too. I've had the honor and pleasure of my teacher's career to share a cabinet with people who are great experts in finance. They were Zarko Ristic, Slobodan Komazec, Dusan Jovanić, a colleague of Radojić's, and these are people I have learned a lot from. What ordinary people, and I have seen today and here most of you have mentioned, is that everyone expects the finance minister to give them access to the money, that he is the one who determines who, when and how that money goes, and it is normal for someone who is the finance minister to be the key to the cash register and that he distributes that money in the way that he should be deployed. What do we ordinary people think of money? Most of us say – so what, money, it's just paper, money, it's some metal. Money doesn't matter, but without it, you can't. We need to understand that money isn't as ordinary and as simple as we're saying. Money is a living thing. He's born, we create him. It develops, grows, multiplys. The money lasts. It comes at some point and into a situation where it's old, where it's no longer worth it. How many of those bills do we have that's past the deadline? Here, now there was a period when the Swiss franc was changing, as I recall. They are no longer valid for certain denominations, etc. He always has his own life course. The money is a living thing, so I prepared a book written by Andre Sheno, "There will be money," and I wanted to give it to Minister Sinisha Malo. I'm sorry he's not here. I can congratulate you today – Youth Day, and I promise you a book for one of the other meetings. I didn't know you were coming today. So far, I've shared over 6,000 books in Serbia. I didn't reward a few ministers here either, I gave them books. I'm going to ask you ministry colleagues to hand this book over to Mr. Secretary. A smart man learns from everyone, in every place and at all times. I believe he'll benefit a lot, and there's a lot of nice things here about money, which will be new and interesting for him, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7079	Thank you, Professor. Stojmirovic. You can approach and hand over the book. The word is Vladica Maricic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Orlic National Assembly. Dear ministers, respected co-workers of the finance minister, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, in the past weeks and previous months we adopted a dozen laws that represent Serbia's digital agenda and promote access to Serbian citizens through digital services all under a parallel to Serbia's digital future. It is the slogan "Digital Future of Serbia" that we first used in 2019 to celebrate the 11th birthday of the Serbian Progressive Party. Everyone remembers those short spots. In one of them, Mr. Orlic, you've voiced a flying car, I don't know if you're coming to work with that flying car now, I don't think so, but I know that there's a lot going on for the citizens of Serbia until 2019, and especially since 2019 as regards access to public services and generally facilitating business for both citizens and business entities. When we went to the 2012 elections, we then went to Serbian citizens with a programme that meant the Office for Quick Answers. It was one office, one counter on which the citizens could, with one appearance, complete everything. Many at the time said that this was impossible, that it was unreal, that the state would not give up any fees it charges for different beliefs, and those beliefs serve nothing else to submit to another state body, in order to exercise some right or use some public service. The new General Administrative Procedure Act was adopted in 2016, which completely changed the paradigm of the work of the administration in Serbia, the state administration, the city, and other public authorities. Citizens are no longer couriers, postmen, suppliers to these authorities, they do not have to obtain a pile of paper that they need to apply to their request for the exercise of a right, it is enough to appear on the counter, submit a request, and then that body that conducts the procedure, obtains assurances and certificates from all other state authorities that keep public records. And that's where we didn't stop. And in many local self - administrations open tents for quick answers, i.e. unique administrative places. In those in which they have not been opened so far, they will be opened in the next year, two. What is a unique administrative place? It's just one office, one desk in the building, which the people most often call the municipality, where you can address for all the rights and services you provide at that local self-government, from a building permit to a child's allowance. One appearance, one request. But both public administration reform and a single administrative place involve physical contact, they mean citizens, even on that one counter, and in 2020, the crown age, the pandemic age, it has shown us that some services have to start to provide digitally. Those citizens who were equipped with digital ID cards, ID cards with a chip or other digital certificates, who issued other certification bodies, e.g. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce has easily accessed public services from their chair, via their computer. We have the service of electronic administration, e-Government, which is one of the best in the region, through which citizens already provide many public services, and with the amendment of this law today, the Personal Card Act, we will allow citizens to use those services that they have not yet been able to do, which are services that involve remote identification, i.e. long-distance signing. This law that we are discussing today, the amendment of the Law on the ID card, and the law we discussed last week, which is an amendment to the Law on the Electronic Document, and two weeks ago, I will remind you, we have discussed the amendment of the Law on the seals of state and other bodies, all these laws provide an adequate legal framework for the full digitisation of the provision of public services and the achievement of the rights of citizens in the digital world. In addition to creating an adequate legal framework, Serbia also builds the necessary digital infrastructure. An example is the State given centre built in Kragujevac, which is a 21st-century connection between Serbia and Serbia's citizens, a digital future connection that follows in all countries on the planet. Before that, the State given centre is also a grenade of our sovereignty in this digital information society, because it stores all the data, all the electronic documents from the work of the public administration, which are coded by algorithms that are the product of our domestic minds. In addition, the State given centre also represents a platform for the implementation of the "Development of Artificial Intelligence", as well as the "Smart Serbia and Smart Cities" programme. Those local self-governments that they want to offer their citizens so-called. Smart city services do not have to build their own information infrastructure, it is enough to contact the State given centre and in collaboration with the State Data Centre to implement these services. When I talk about information infrastructure, I can't help but mention the scientific and technological parks we built in Serbia. I'm from Nis. In Nis, a story about building a science and technology park began at the beginning of two thousand years. The idea came from the university. And by 2012, many politicians had promised money and construction and equipment of the Science and Technology Park, but failed to meet. This is where we come to October 2016, to hold a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in Nis. At the time, President Aleksandar Vucic was Prime Minister and then gathered leading people from the city and representatives of the university and asked what was the development that the town of Nisu needed, besides building highways, despite the opening of factories, jobs. At that time, the late professor Goran Djordjevic from the Faculty of Electronics, on behalf of the city and university, appeared before President Vukic and said it was the project to build a scientific and technological park in Nis and build a laboratory lamela at the Faculty of Electronics, and President Vukic promised. Some from the academic community have told me that they accepted this promise with a reserve, precisely because of experiences with all previous authorities from 2000 to 2012. But soon the foundation stone was laid, and in 2020 the scientific and technological park in Nis and the laboratory lamela of the Faculty of Electronics opened. That's what the state invested 21m euros in. And there are already working development start-up companies and there is building some new Serbia, some digital Serbia. There are some young people who will develop services and sell them around the world. In Serbia, 70,000 people, with a wave of young people, educated, are working in the IT sector and the average earning in the IT sector in Serbia is over a thousand euros. And just earning in the IT sector, as well as profits in many other segments, making it possible for the public, the private sector, to reach the goal of the average earnings in the Republic of 900 euros in 2025. President Vukic announced yesterday that Serbia is on track, as the average earnings in March amounted to 550 euros. And all of us SNS members, SNS voters, all Serbian citizens who support President Alexander Vukic's policy, can be proud of what has been done, because anyone who asks us, on the street, on the Internet, what is the policy of Alexander Vukic and SNS, we can show the results of that policy by hand. It's science and technology parks, it's new factories and new jobs. It's eight highways to be built in 2021. That's what we're proud of today, and what the next generations will be proud of. Because of everything I have said, as well as my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support the reform laws that are on the agenda in the day of the vote. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7081	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7082	Dear President of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly joined us, so that we register that too, so digitisation is a very important process. The entire government is working on it, but here I am, with great pleasure and pride, able to say that the first ministry that has provided all the services available to citizens has enabled them to be achieved digitally. More than three hundred different taxis, permits, who knows what papers and documents and documents you can get from the Ministry without even coming to the Ministry. So, just digitally. It means something to the elderly and it doesn't mean anything to us, but to this new generation, it certainly means how far we're going in the right direction. I will take this opportunity to look back on what happened Saturday in front of the concrete hall and in general the fight against crime led by the MUP, but not only by the MUP, he is led by the BIA, along with the huge personal contribution of Bate Gasic, led by the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime, with the real great personal courage and professional courage of the prosecutor for organised crime, Mr Nenadic, led by the Public Prosecutor's Office, led by Zagorka Dolovac, led by our entire judiciary, led by our entire society and led by President Aleksandar Vukic in the first place. The fight against organised crime is so successful because perhaps for the first time the entire state is acting as one machine, one in all, one mechanism, gathered together with one goal to win and that in this country organized crime is reduced to the least possible. The organised crime group Belivuk-Miljkovic, which President Vukic said would be broken and as you can see, his words came true, is a group of monsters. It's a collection of people who will one day write books about how it's possible that someone could have been so monstrous, that it's possible that someone so young could have so much evil in them. When the trial begins, and right away I tell you that Prosecutor Nenadić is very pleased with both the quality and the amount of evidence we have already provided, and when everything can be shown to the public, we will all be disgusted together by the way the crimes were committed and the number of different crimes, but those groups are gone. It must never be allowed to form again and achieve a group of such size, such strength, such numbers, such cruelty, and such a long lifetime. The success of me, you and each of the next interior ministers and each of the next calls for parliament will be measured by how much less organised, less numerous and shorter in its century, less dangerous each organised criminal group will be. By this shall be measured mine, yours and the future success of those who come behind us. We have the huge support of President Vukic and it is not very difficult to be Minister of the Interior and have such good results when you have such support from the very top of the country and when the whole society stands behind you. On Saturday, that group of hooligans shamed the Red Star, whom I love very much, embarrassed our Belgrade, which we all love together. That shouldn't have happened. They beat up girls, broke windows, broke cafes, burned torches, lived on quiet people who took advantage of the opportunity to finally, after a long time, go out sitting, hang out with people, without even the slightest challenge and aggression. It's not true that it's a fan's conflict that someone provoked someone. No, they were hooligans who came to live, who came to destroy, of course, who tried to impose their power. The Home Office won't give up on us finding out who the employers are and who the organizers are, we already have, they're already being tried, but let's see who was standing between them, why they did it, what they wanted to do with these and what they wanted to do with these. It's the biggest blow to our capital right now. Belgrade is a quiet city. Belgrade is a safe city. These things don't happen. It's not happening in our country, and we're gonna do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen again. Today's a nice day, you know, today's the Cup finale, playing Star and Partizan. At least now we're thinking about what kind of football is going to play. The Belgrade Police Administration is considering whether there will be a riot, whether some irresponsible hooligans will gather somewhere, whether they will schedule a fight, whether they will try to break into the stadium, whether they will live somewhere on someone. At least we think about football, and we'd have to think about it, and it would be nice to at least think about what is the essence of sports, but unfortunately we can't think about it. That's why the MUP will really do its best. And as you saw on that day, the top MP officials are on the scene together with members of the ministry where it is most important, because it is necessary to give support to these people and because they need to know, because every member of the MUP, as every member of the Belgrade Police Department, must know that his commander Milic will be where it is difficult, and so every member of the MUP must know that his minister will be there, that there will be his director, that there will be every member of the police. Every police officer has to be with his police and with his citizens. After all, Alexander Vukic expects us to. As he is in every village, every city, every factory and every time it's been difficult, when there's been floods, when there's been snow, whenever it's been hard, if our President of the Republic can be with every citizen of this country, it can be with every minister, then any official can, and every general, can, too, can be with the people who are his ministry and, most importantly, with his citizens. What happened on Saturday won't and can't happen again. We'll do our best to make it that way. I'd like this tall home to one day find time and space to think about maybe being punished by such offenders changes, having a stricter policy. It's not my place to talk about it. It is up to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to think about it, but I think we are too kind to those who threaten other people's health, life, property and honor. I think we're too mild and we're letting ourselves find excuses for someone because they're experiencing or because they're hiding behind the flag, the name of this or that beloved club. I think we should all think about it together and the competent ministries, but first, you ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to think that maybe it's time for the state to take a different view. You know, those Saturdays at the concrete hall could have been any one of you, could have been your kids, could have been your wives, your wives, your friends. Imagine how you would feel if you had sent your child who had gone peacefully to where it was allowed, legally, according to regulations, at nine o'clock, sat, talked, acted normally and returned bloodyly, expressed because some hooligans had fallen into a cafe. How would each of us think and react? So that you and I as parents wouldn't take a shine to anyone, there's a state for that to protect the lives and health of each of us and every member of our family, and that's why I believe that we should all think carefully about a stricter criminal policy for those who are trying to achieve any of their goals by violence. Whether they aim at political change, robbery, economic pressure doesn't matter. It's only important that violence in this country will not and must not be tolerated. Please, if you find time and opportunity, of course, within the framework of the law, let us all think together about maybe changing our policy and our relationship with those who commit violence. There can be no excuse for violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7083	Thank you, Minister. Of course the National Assembly supports that. We can wait for the ministry, and we can run it ourselves, so it's no problem, we'll talk at the next session of the College. In any case, I would like to express my gratitude once again to all security forces, as it is said, to the members of the MUP and BIA and the entire command system, and headed by Serbia's president in the fight against crime. It's the monster that's the most damaging and corrosive of a society. I apologize to all of you for being on several sides today, because there was a visit from ministers from Sweden, and then a conversation with the Women's Parliamentary Group, because she is the chairman of the OSCE, so Martinovic and I had close contact with representatives of opposition parties. So I apologize to the ministers for not seeing Sinisha Little today, and I want to say hello to Minister Vulin on this occasion. Let's move on. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Forty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7084	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of that concrete hall, I support the police, but not the prosecution. I think only 10 criminal charges are very small. As far as I know the law, and Mr. Martinovic can correct me, violent behavior in the group includes the whole group. Individual punishments increase when the court determines what any of them have done. Some get a milder sentence, some bigger, but essentially when violent behavior occurs in the group all those who are members of that group and who were found in that group. I'm particularly irritated if there's been an attack on police officers, which is not the prosecution's number, which doesn't prosecute them for another crime, which is an attack on an official person if these attacks happen. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, they say, on the matter of excise duty, that successful people are the people who make a solid foundation for the success of stones and of the bricks that are thrown at them. We're just doing it, and I started it somewhere in 2001 and 2002, I'm talking about excise duty. At the time, the state did not support any investment. It was mainly about the sale of social property and I am one of the few who, with the alleged infamous Predrag Rankovic, set out to build a cigarette factory in India. It happened in 2002 and 2003. I must admit that we had the absolute support of Prime Minister Djindjic at the time to build that factory, because the import of cigarettes into Serbia was significant and was taking seriously the foreign exchange revenues the state made. With this in mind, it was expected that the finance minister and the economy minister, and this is about Djelic and Vlahovic, would support such a single project, since it cost the state nothing. Even the Italian government recognized the efforts of Serbian businessmen and with a 1% loan in a certain way helped to obtain Italian equipment, it seems to me from Treviz. In this struggle to succeed, I couldn't hope for success to come alone, but I had to make an effort to get to the success, and on that occasion, I also gained fellows, but I didn't expect the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance to be opponents, and they were for a simple reason, because together with Prime Minister Zivkovic after the death of Zoran Djindjic, we intended to sell DIN and DIV, and they did so during the implementation of the infamous "Sablje" and we made a commitment that no one else would be able to produce cigarettes in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, except DIN and DIV, i.e. Bat and Philip Morris, who, during the time of "Sablje", were very conveniently bought by the two factories that were worth more than Rovinj, two together, and Rovinj was estimated at that time by a billion and 200. These two factories were sold for 400 million and all smokers for several years because no one else in Serbia could produce cigarettes until they through a smaller excise because all import cigarettes became domestically not paying off that investment so that essentially the cigarette factory DIN and DIV, Filip Morris and BAT were given thanks to Djelic, Vlahovic. That was why they attacked and shot down an investment in India and the factory only started working in 2005. Today, this factory produces about three thousand tons of cigarettes, which has been translated into three million pounds, and translated into 15 million boxes of cigarettes. Of these, 50 million boxes go to the domestic market, and the rest goes to export and GDP revenues are around 20 million prices of production, because there is no excise duty there, etc., and for domestic conditions production is worth 10m euros. The excise that the state and VAT collects annually from the factory in India, which was made with opposition from Djelic and Vlahovic at the moment, is thousands of tonnes. That's a million pounds, five million boxing, 50 million boxes. Also, VAT and excise duty is somewhere on 50 million boxes of about 10 billion dinars, which means that more than 80m euros of the state's revenue annually from the cigarette factory against which they were finance ministers and economy ministers in the then-Governmental government of Zoran Zivkovic. For the past 15 years, this means that from India, from the excise factory and the VAT, more than a billion euros were collected, that it was the state's income, and that GDP in those 15 years was worth 450m euros in the production of the factory. It's a small contribution from me that they considered to be very funny at the time and associates who defined themselves in spite of those who were obstructing it from happening. Something more happened in India than that factory. This was the beginning of the industrial development zone that, with the goodwill of certain state officials, the development of traffic and telecommunications, we have encased two to three thousand hectares between the highway and India and today it is the best industrial zone in Serbia, thanks to the start of a cigarette factory without any incentive, we have developed an industrial zone without any incentives, all of the factories so far, the state has given nothing for these investments, and investments in the economy and production are like gasoline in the car. Without investment, you can't go, and without business, your car is engineless and without gearbox. There is currently more exports in India than exports of all of Montenegro. Only the pump factory exports over 100m euros annually. You have the heating industry, you have the agriculture, etc. Montenegro's exports are industrially slightly above 400m euros. So one city, one municipality with 47,000 inhabitants, gives more exports than the whole of Montenegro. Whether we have GDP per capita and 15 000 euros, Ruma is now in a similar position, unemployment in India is 3.7, "Tojo" that comes into the industrial zone of Indjia, which we made in the way we started with the cigarette factory, "Tojo" will annually produce a tire for 250m euros, i.e. five million pieces. This is what people have decided to build and what the ruling majority has decided to build despite a bunch of bricks and stones that these unfortunates, which are not in the benches of this congregation, are throwing at us. They think it's the way to success that these are ladders that you can climb with your hands in your pockets. These ladders of success are the elevator, and that's the big difference between us, between me and them, and I believe that we will endure on that path. I wouldn't interpret this too much for alcohol because sometimes in the morning, the doctor prescribes a glass. I hope people don't overdo it in therapy, but I have to say something about vehicles since it's about ID cards, what about faceless cards, what about people who don't have cheeks, how do we determine their identity, those who aren't present, who are against everything, who are for jobs, but they're against factories, who are for protection? They made Serbia a green country. So, Serbia was the first to become an ecologically green country because they closed down all the factories by 2012, and I went on the campaign for those years, and I saw two factory chimneys smoke throughout Serbia. That was their achievement. So, no-work factories, property sales. They're, for example, for roads, they're against quarrys, they're for electric cars, but they're against lithium, they're for gatherings, etc., and they're for taking pictures with mobile phones, but they're against lithium batteries, they're for lithium batteries, but they're not for production in our country, that we're not making income, we're for someone else, and they're for poor people with no face, I'm asking how they're going to even get their ID cards out. And, to remind you, during their rule, the Face was forbidden. They banned Face as an organization, and their cheek was about a penetrating cheek, so we don't know who the ID or faceless cards are they need to fit in. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the machine is concerned, Mr. Minister, in 2015, a supplement of the Regulation on registration of motor vehicles and trailers was made. I think since those five years are up and running that rule and that machines that aren't registered are registered for the next year. If you think someone's going to trick the stolen ones hard because they're going to use it and examine the number of the chess, the number of engines, if it's a tractor, so if we suspect someone with a stolen tractor is trying to smuggle in, we're going to catch him very easily by seeing those numbers on the registration we're looking for somewhere. So, I urge you to try to find a way to re-comply this Regulation because it was done five years ago, and the machines over five years ago included that Regulation not to change too much content, but only to renew and that the period of registration will be over the next year. Ladies and gentlemen, someone said that the desire for success is half a success and I believe that our wish is double and that we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7085	Thank you. I don't know if it's said, but we'll be working tonight until 6:30, so it says here. You guys want to keep working, we can. Thank you. Let's move on. National MP Dejan Kesar. Excuse me, Minister, did you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7086	Just for a little while. On the concrete initiative of Mr. National MP Risticevic, we will look at what is expected number of agricultural machines, connected machines, to see if this would be necessary, if this would produce results. You see, the state, essentially what you're looking for is some kind of legalization. The essential state does that, as it has done with weapons, for example, multiple times, as it does with objects many times, so there's no reason not to think in that direction. Of course, it's a fully mature initiative. But what I'm saying is, and you all know it, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the state of Serbia is giving great processes to buy new machinery. That's what's best and what's best. We are trying to restore the machinery, buy the machinery, buy it, but certainly those who have older mechanisms deserve our equal attention, so I remain obliged to give you the next time we see each other, or before that I will let you know what the MUP has brought as an assessment of the changes in the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7087	Thank you. As I said, there are 23 more minutes of Dejan Kesar, followed by Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I estimate that's enough for 23 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7088	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, esteemed ministers with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Personal Card Act that will contribute to its proposed changes, both better legal solutions and opportunities to reduce administrative costs. The proposed changes are primarily directed to create conditions for reducing unnecessary legal gaps while at the same time contributing to the release of certain administrative costs by citizens. In 2017, the government of the Republic of Serbia recognised certain problems in implementing procedures and procedures, i.e. leading to the administrative costs that existed, both on the part of citizens and on the part of businesses and they wanted to correct them so that citizens would be free of these costs. The very basis for implementing such an idea was the project “Stop Bureaucracies”. The document itself was adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia in order to take the necessary activities, aimed at reducing administrative burdens in favour of citizens who will make life easier, and also on the part of businesses which will contribute to making the economy much more competitive in the coming period. The government of the Republic of Serbia has certainly shown by this project that it has heard of all the problems facing both the population and the economy to contribute to further strengthening of the state's capacity in the coming years. This bill will certainly contribute to the planned objectives of this project. Reading the proposed text of the law, except for the obligation to make sure that the mandatory address of the residence is entered on both the chip and the basic form of the identity card. Personally, I believe that the most important changes have been made with regard to the issue of a ID card to persons over 16 years of age, and with regard to those changes which free the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from paying certain administrative burdens. The basic ID law stipulates an obligation for all persons over 16 years of age to apply to the organisational unit of the MUP for the issue of the identity card as an identification document. The proposed change allows individuals over the age of 16 to submit the request without the consent of another parent who does not exercise parental law. With this change, I fully agree, because if we read the Family Relations Act, we will see that persons who do not exercise parental rights are persons who are or unknown barativities, who unfortunately have passed away or who have been deprived of parental rights, which has greatly slowed down the exercise of the personal rights of certain entities. Also, the most significant solution directly related to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is the solution when the loss of the ID card occurs. After this change, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will no longer have to initiate a procedure to advertise the identity card lost, before the "Official Messenger", but will do so once it adopts a solution to the declaration of the ID card invalidity and publish that same solution on the MUP website. When we talk about processes that lead to the shortening of the necessary time to achieve certain personal rights, I would like to commend the improvement of the portal e-Government. The eGovernment portal is defined as a unique place for all electronic procedures in which citizens can apply for the issue of a ID card, passport, to apply for enrolment of children in kindergarten, to apply or apply for a newborn child, as well as many other things. On this particular case, the state has shown that it has clearly recognised the importance of digitising and uniting all necessary databases that will contribute to the fact that citizens no longer have to wait in line and we will no longer face situations where citizens go to competent institutions and that they are told there that they lack one or two papers. All those things that were a problem until three or four years ago, now citizens can do it from their homes, which you will agree to is a newspaper compared to some earlier time. This also shows that the state has taken certain necessary measures to reduce the negative effects related to the state administration, by introducing the "Stop Bureau" project, but we are also witnessing that we have said decisively in recent times with a decisive and clear attitude of stop crime and corruption. That's why I'd like to use your presence to give full support to the Ministry of Justice and to all other competent institutions in the daily fight against organised crime and corruption. This struggle, which we are all witnessing, and the MPs, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, clearly demonstrates the state's intention to deal with all forms of crime and anti-law behaviour that are not in line with the law. The struggle shows a clear view of the state that no one can commit crimes on its territory and that every crime will be revealed and that it will be prosecuted. I believe that as a country since 2012, we have been extremely mature, to fight crime uncompromisingly, without exception to one clear and responsible goal, which is better and healthier Serbia. We see the results in this struggle daily, but also in the media we face certain political factors that do not distinguish between politics and taking a serious and responsible policy. We see politics on the side of all those who are at the head of opposition parties, who are without a programme, who are without ideas and want cheap political tricks to score certain political points. We are also witnessing the attack on the president, on his children, on all relevant state institutions, just so that without a programme, without ideas and without elections, they will come to power. They do this daily, work through their media, work through their portals, work through their cartoonists, wanting to mask what they do not have, which is to show Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia a political programme. And that political boomerang is coming back to their backyard almost every day, wanting to mask political research that shows they don't even have the 3% needed to cross the censorship. It is therefore important that we continue to conduct serious and responsible policies, to continue the fight against crime and corruption, because that is the only way we can fight for better, healthier and safer Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7089	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7090	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Ministers of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs and the Honorable Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since my colleagues and colleagues have already said mostly about these two laws, let me just say when it comes to the Law on the ID card that we are changing it to step up with digitalisation, and the goal is, what is very important to us, that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia exercise all those rights from their home or from their apartment, instead of robbing the counters of state institutions. Dear Minister, this law is the best defense for bureaucracy and corruption, and citizens will exercise their rights more effectively. I must tell you, Your Honor, that media attacks on the President of the Republic continue these days. Dragan Gilas, the tycoon, is still censoring the media. You've seen these days, he shot Mr. Cosic from the N1 because of his alleged inoperability, and he had the support of tycoon Crixus, a colleague of the School, because he invested millions in N1, and N1, as you can see, has an extremely small view. Tykun Gilas, a censor, portrays himself as a fighter for media freedoms these days, and in his time as a official of government has become rich at the expense of these media. Verica Barac, who said this in time, quoted me as saying: "It is allowed here that Mayor Gilas has private companies dealing with the media. It's insolence and cynicism. Gilas is always doing business with the budget," the quote concluded. Here, you see, the Honorable President of the Assembly and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected Belgraders, as Dragan Gilas washed our money and ended up in 17 countries and in 67 accounts. Gilas has no idea about the media, he's doing everything against the media. So Verica Barac said, quotes: “Gilas buys minutes in advance, pays in advance, and has a strong influence on the media. He controlled daily newspapers, bought space in the media, and censored the newspaper," the quote concluded. Is this true, Mr. Gilas, or not? Speak to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, gather your courage and speak whether this is true or not. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these days, Dragan Gilas and his best man insult the hour-to-hour president of the Republic of Serbia, both Kosovo and Metohija, as well as personal insults. I ask the question, Mr. Gilas, is it true, and I say it is true, that in a conversation with the US Embassy's US Embassy of Belgrade, you said, "I am in favour of the arrest of Ratko Mladic and I will give up Kosovo," the quote concluded? As you can see, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Gilas gave up more in 2009 and accuses Alexander Vukic of seeking a compromise solution for our southern Serbian province. Is it true, Mr. Gilas, and I say it is true that you said in a bahato on 13 August 2020, I quote: "I paid the hotel 4,000 euros, and I can pay 17,000 euros for a villa at sea and shoes 5,000 euros," the quote concluded. How did you get so much money, Mr. Gilas, and you were in political office? Teach the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, teach Belgrade how to make huge money so quickly. Is it true, Mr Gilas, that in May 2020, you brutally insulted President Vukic, not only these days, but then calling him a lunatic, when you said on N1, I quote: "Wolf, you are crazy", finished quote. On the question of journalist Jacqueline Tatalovic, I quote: "Will you change that? “ You, Mr. Gilas, have answered the question, I quote, “I will strengthen it, ” and then you have repeated several times: “Wolf, you are crazy. ” Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that's what our president never told Gilas or anyone else. Is it true this, Mr. Gilas, muster up courage, not courage to swear, you have courage as a sparrow on a branch, so tell me whether it's true or not. Is it true that you, Mr Gilas, on January 20th, even in 2018 brutally insulted President Vukic with the most ground floor dictionary, when you said, quote: "Vučić, you are crazy", just because Aleksandar Vukic, as president of the state, went to Kosovo and Metohija and spoke to our martyrs, the injured Serbian people? Why are you saying that, Mr. Gilas? Did you give up our southern Serbian provinces or hatred for President Vukic because of the haughtiness or those 619m euros in incomes that have been blown out, respected citizens, out of our pockets or because, as we have seen, in 2009, you gave up our southern Serbian province or hatred for President Vukic? It's gonna be like it's both two and three. Is it true, Mr. Gilas, that you are 27.08. In 2018, brutally, unworthy of man, insulted President Alexander Vukic when you said, I repeat to the respected citizens, even in 2018, when he said, quote – Vukic has mental problems, some disorders and added, shame on you and be it Vucic, you are a crazy man, a final quote. And, you repeated it these days. Is it true or not, Mr. Gilas? Is that courage, you coward. There, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who insults? Dragan Gilas. Do you know why Dragan Gilas, in a people called the mob, says that? Only because he said that President Vukic and the Serbian government and citizens are building "Belgrade on Water", which was one of the ugliest parts of Belgrade, and was built today by one of the most beautiful promenades in Europe and has become one of the largest construction sites in this part of Europe. I don't have time to say what all of them were against was Dragan Gilas and his associates. Is it true that you, Mr Gilas, without any reason on April 11, 2020 again, who knows which time you brutally offended President Vukic, when you said, quote – Wolf, you are not normal, finished quote. Did you say that because President Vukic has no income of 619m euros, Mr Gilas or accounts in Mauritius, Zurich, the Netherlands, Bulgaria or in 17 other countries, and God knows where else. Is it true, and it is, that you and your political, electric rabbit, Marinika Tepic, spit on the victims of Jasenovac when in the duet you lauded by the publication of a tweeter saying that Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, I quote - a sick man, finished the quote and that he should be treated, only because he said that he saw the film of Predrag Gage Antonijevic "Dara from Jasenovac", because he stated that the president was difficult and important for our people who suffered. This tweeter was particularly angry, Mr. Gilas, that President Vukic said that the realization of the film took place on his initiative. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected vice-presidents of the National Assembly, respected interior ministers, Mr Vulinu, therefore media attacks on President Vukic are becoming more intense these days, and will be even stronger than the performance of the tycoon-mafian-political group and individuals associated with foreign power centres. They have only one goal, to bring down Alexander Vukic and stop the accelerated process of economic progress and the overall modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, knowing that he is the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, and their desire to come to power and bring Serbia back there, Gilas, where he led by 2012 to bankruptcy. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, while our Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic daily returns our country's international reputation across the set, implementing peace policy, solidarity policy, the health policy of all our citizens in the country and the environment, the policy of accelerated economic progress in these difficult pandemic times, the bastard Dragan Gilas is doing everything he can to preserve his huge millions of euros and dollars in the accounts of Mauritius, Zurich, Holland, Bulgaria, Croatia, Hong Kong, and God knows which other countries. We're going to beat Mr. Minister of the Mafia. There's no going back. Betrayal is not an option. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-25-0.u7091	I thank the People's MP, Professor Mark Atlagic. Since the lists of MPs are no longer signed up for the word. Before concluding a joint principled search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to speak. Rules of Procedure? If not, pursuant to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
