ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2950	Thank you. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Mr Vice-Presidents, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades. I, of course, want to thank each and every one of you, because the fight against the mafia, the fight against organised crime cannot be fought without the National Assembly and without the support and active participation of each of you. The National Assembly as the highest home, as a home that not only makes laws, but also makes sure that these laws are both just and sustainable, is a place without which there cannot be a successful fight against organised crime. I thank each of you individually and sincerely for that and the members of the MUP and BIA, the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime, infinitely means your support and means recognition when it comes from such a high place. Today we will recommend two international agreements to your attention. One is with the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, and the other is with the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotto. They both have their own meaning. Let in our lives more, less in practical terms, but one and the other have their practical but also their own political importance. The distance we have between us and the Kingdom of Lesotto is not something that should discourage us in terms of our cooperation and in terms of showing an honest relationship of respect for something that the Kingdom of Lesotto did at an important moment. She withdrew recognition of the fake state "Kosovo". This is among other things a way for our country to show our respect for this gesture and respect the courage to uphold international law. Lesotto's not a big country. There are no great potentials that some other African countries have that are more numerous, richer, more armed if you want me to say so, but she showed courage just because she's so small, she showed courage to respect international law. Our agreement today, that is, the moment you vote for it will be our way of saying one great thank you, one great respect for a small country, but great for your courage to respect international law. When it comes to the agreement between our government and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in co-operation in the field of combating migrant smuggling, it is clear that it has a significant practical application. The migration crisis that began in 2015 has not stopped. The way things are, it won't stop. As long as these economic and political relations are in the world, as long as the EU is unable to formulate a common policy when migrants are concerned, as long as large and powerful countries fail to reach a position on this major crisis, the migrant crisis will continue, and Serbia is on a migrant path. Let me get this straight. We don't use the term of migrants by accident, we don't use the term refugees. According to international law, migrants and refugees are not the same, and that is why it is especially important that we co-operate with our environment, to work with our neighbours to fight the consequences of irregular migration. Every man in our territory protects the law, protects international law, but provided that he respects the law and respects international law is nothing different. Serbia cannot become a parking lot for migrants. Serbia can't be a place to go in as anyone will and go out as anyone will, and the time to be in our territory leads however it pleases. This is what the state of Serbia cannot allow and does not allow and you are all, I believe, witnesses to how much the MUP is making efforts to get irregular migrants off the streets, to secure themselves in camps, where they are all provided, everything they need, but cannot be uncontrolled on our streets. We do so, of course, with the minimum minimum application of force, unlike many other countries that are bigger and more developed than we are. You almost couldn't see the use of force when it comes to the MUP and when it comes to our security authorities. During the first wave of birds, as you all remember, migrant camps in our country were the only form of collective housing in Europe where there was not one infected, just because we locked them up in time, medically provided them and allowed them to spend that time uninterruptedly, but without communication with our population and thus pose no threat to our citizens, but not to themselves. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the MUP will always do everything possible to ensure that our way of life is not disturbed in any way, even when it comes to the migrant crisis. That's why we need to work with our neighbors. These migrants don't come from heaven, they pass several countries, but very often the EU countries pass, and then they enter into the territory of northern Macedonia, our countries and then they try to enter the EU again and it's one of the paradoxes, which is both a political and technical paradox, but it's the world we live in. That's why we have to do everything we can to control their movements, to protect our borders. The agreement addresses the issue of co-operation between the competent state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia in preventing organised crime groups for migrant smuggling, as well as improving co-operation between our authorities in the area. This agreement also applies to any other form of migrant smuggling in accordance with the national legislation of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. It is not difficult to assume that when around one country, and in 2015, about a million people passed through the Republic of Serbia, that there must have been a lot of criminal gangs, that there were a lot of smugglers, but with great pride I must say that our country is the most successful on the migrant route fighting smugglers. The competent state authorities of our two countries, in accordance with their national legislation, will exchange relevant information and information on issues relating to routes, mode of operation and identity of organised criminal groups involved in migrant smuggling. We will share good experiences and practices, scientific and technical experiences, everything that can be important for law enforcement. We will also form joint investigation teams, organise joint training, workshops and seminars and exchange experiences to prevent and strengthen the capacity to combat migrant smuggling. We're the closest neighbors, we have the same problem, this is how we deal with this problem, and this is how to be even more efficient, even more organized, and to protect our country even more seriously and efficiently and to protect our way of life. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to support the proposed agreements in the voting day and give the Ministry of the Interior another mechanism, another tool to protect our country and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2951	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I just want to add to what Minister Vulin said, given that I was the foreign minister in the previous period and that during that period we had had great successes and worked together continuously as a state action, so to speak, all the state authorities in withdrawing the recognition of so-called. The countries of Kosovo, we have in all this had tools to sign various international agreements, from visa waivers to co-operation agreements in the area of security, defence, etc. Lesotto is one of the countries that drew a confession among the first. I want to thank you when you look in the direction of some MPs who have helped with some countries where we have worked to withdraw recognition, but in Lesota, power has now changed. We need to move on and keep track so that there is no change in attitude towards this very important issue for us. First of all, I came forward because Vice President Orlic reminded me that we, as the National Assembly, have now formed parliamentary groups of friendships with all countries that have withdrawn the recognition of the false state of Kosovo, so that we now even have a parliamentary group of friendships with Lesota and other countries, which means that we have parliamentary groups with all countries that have never recognised Kosovo and have withdrawn Kosovo's recognition as an independent state. In any case, the National Assembly will monitor the government's activities in this domain and I am talking about this first international agreement. Since the list includes the representatives of the rapporteurs, I would only ask Alexander Markovic if you had come forward on behalf of the Committee? Here you go. Aleksandar Markovic, Defence and Home Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2952	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short in this part. Dear Mr. Vulin, Mr. Lazarov, dear Mr. Glisic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs at yesterday's session has decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt these two proposed laws - a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotto on co-operation in the area of defence, as well as a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating migrant smuggling. Both these important agreements contribute to the development of overall bilateral relations with the Kingdom of Lesota, which you, Mr Vulin, spoke about, or to the Republic of Northern Macedonia. You will notice, ladies and gentlemen, that the key word for both of these agreements is co-operation. Co-operation with other countries on the issue, i.e. on various issues in the defence/in-house affairs, especially when it comes to countries of the region, such as Northern Macedonia, we are promoting our capacity to fight crime, in this case in the fight against organised groups dealing with the crime of the type of migrant smuggling, which directly affects the increase in the security of citizens, which we will certainly discuss more closely in the follow-up session. I would like to express my satisfaction that this session at which we are considering proposed defence and home affairs agreements takes place in the days when the state is fighting, an important and strong fight against organised crime, and I would like to join this opportunity to congratulate you, Mr. Minister, on a successful action that has been carried out these days in which we have shown that the state has the power to deal with all aspects of organised crime, that there are no protecteds in this fight, that there are no privileges and no untouchables in this fight and that no one is stronger than the state. Mr. Minister, it is extremely important that we be determined and persistent in this fight against the mafia, against organised crime, because it is a fight for orderly, successful and decent Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on you to support these bill proposals in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2953	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2954	Thank you, Mr. Dacic, for giving me your word. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, as we discussed on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives the draft laws on the validation of two agreements between the Government of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia and the second one between the Government of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotto on the importance of these agreements today, we will be able to speak in the tide. Regional integration and co-operation with the countries of the region are important for Serbia, so the agreement with the government of Northern Macedonia will complete co-operation and strengthen the ties between the two countries' state authorities that are responsible for the fight against organised crime groups dealing with migrant smuggling. The Serbian government has already shown endurance in the fight against crime and has sent a clear message that there are no protected and that no one is stronger than the state. On the other hand, a strong message has been sent to these latest arrests that Serbia is a strong and safe country. The rule of law and the fight against crime are certainly high on the list of priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and if we look back at the first 100 days of the work of this current government, we will see that the fight against the mafia is as present as the fight against the Coronus virus and the fight for our economy and economy. As these agreements will mark today's session, so have many challenges, but many successes marked the first 100 days of government work. In the fight against the Coronation of the Virus, we predominate among the countries of Europe when it comes above all to the stability of the health system on the preservation of life and the health of citizens. In just four months, I'll remind you we've built two new hospitals and now the immunization of the population is high-level by organisation and efficiency. And that there are results in the fight against crime and that we are the first or second in Europe to fight vaccines and the first in Europe according to economic results, all these are the results of the dedicated work of the Government and the President of the Republic not only these 100 days, but also in the past years. What I'm trying to say is that the National Assembly also played a major role in bringing first of all laws whose application will have the expected positive effects. Today, the Serbian government will receive support for our children for the adoption of an agreement that will contribute to the greater efficiency of the security authorities from the parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic. In the end, you have our unreserved support in the fight against crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2955	Thank you. No more reporters. We are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2956	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and other representatives of the government, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, MPs from the Justice and Reconciliation Party are happy to participate in the discussion when it comes to co-operation agreements. Here, today we actually have two agreements ahead of us, one of them is about establishing co-operation with a small and very remote country that looks like an island on land on a geographic map. This has a very important symbolism for me, because it actually confirms the capacity of this country to reach both such countries and to show them importance and to actually confirm its own ability and commitment to establish co-operation with every country in the world that demonstrates the desire and willingness to do so, no matter how much the country's ability to be. In this case, it is a small African country, and that is what I think should be the intensity of our diplomacy and all other capacities of international co-operation. Africa is actually one insufficiently explored potential for future co-operation. I can talk about it, starting with my own student-day experience. For four years, I have been in an African country, in Algeria, in a big, serious country in North Africa, and these are experiences that are unforgettable today, not only in terms of the relationship between these people, their goodness, their hospitality, but also in fact all that I have learned during the four years and their relationship with us here, towards our country. True, then all of this is based on the foundations of relations with Yugoslavia. So, during that stay, I had opportunities to meet people who, for example, had opportunities to be treated in Belgrade. In fact, while the Algerian Liberation War lasted, which was very severe, which lasted eight years against colonial government, over a million and five hundred thousand Algerians died. The only destination outside the country in which they could be treated was VMA here in Belgrade. There are hundreds of people who have passed VMA treatment here in Belgrade. Now imagine what their feelings are like, what their experiences are. Some of these people I met, they were already older, but they were about Belgrade, about that period of treatment, about how they were admitted here, what help they were shown, they were talking in tears, they were talking with excitement. So that emotion, and after a few dozen years, it lasted there. It was passed on to their generations, to their children. So that's the most impressive detail, but certainly there's still a lot of positive experiences in their relationship that I've experienced there. I am convinced that even after three decades of my stay there we still have very much positive emotions, not only in Algeria, but in all those countries with which Yugoslavia was then, but the truth with Belgrade as the capital of the country had excellent and good relations. I know a lot has been revived in the past few years, but what I want to point out is that we need to work harder on that. Any possibility of resuscitating or establishing good relationships should be exploited. There is still one of the countries to which the accent should be placed. We, among other things, MPs of the SPP, even in our party programme, potentiate the importance of co-operation further with the Muslim countries and are actually making ourselves available. We see ourselves at our disposal as members of Islam living in this country, and the fact is that we have had other relationships and co-operation with various factors throughout the Muslim world. We are prepared to make ourselves available to this country and continue to help you deal with it in advance. The possibilities are enormous, only necessary to recruit all the potentials of this country and here in the National Assembly, of course all the potentials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. the Government, but also other cultural and all organisational potentials to have full capacity for co-operation, not only in some symbolic relations but also in a concrete sense of serious economic co-operation. The dedicated industry is out of competition and perhaps one of the best potentials, but also other opportunities still open to the economy. I'm potentialing countries in North Africa and Algeria. There are huge possibilities. It is a country that now allocates billions to investments, infrastructure, with a serious tradition of co-operation with construction companies and companies in the former Yugoslavia area. I think we can do a lot more here, and that's why we're willing to encourage every initiative to help and participate in it. Sure, we've already mentioned it. All that has been done in recent years to improve relations with the Muslim world, especially with the United Arab Emirates, is commended and supported. We know well what effects in the investment sense bring this co-operation. But believe the effects are much higher. Thus, through the United Arab Emirates, that is, co-operation that has been established throughout the Gulf States, according to the countries of the Middle East. Here, I, as a Muslim, can testify to how effective this has been in terms of one, if I may say so, Muslim and Orthodox co-operation. I think, in addition to what is extremely important to us here, and that is the economic co-operation of great importance and general cultural-civilization co-operation. Of course, from our point of view of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as we already point out in the name of one of the specifics of our ideological orientation, that is reconciliation. Of course reconciliation means understanding. Understanding implies getting to know each other, because without getting to know each other, there's no way of establishing co-operation. When I say reconciliation, I don't just mean reconciliation after the conflict, it always falls into my eyes first. But reconciliation is a concept that has a much wider meaning and importance than self-sacrifice or reconciliation after the conflict. Reconciliation is actually the establishment of peaceful relations. The reconciliation should first take place within ourselves, with ourselves, in our individual personalities, then reconciliation is needed within our own peoples and communities. In fact, reconciliation is the possibility of peaceful communication with itself, within your family, within your community, within your people, between peoples who live together, but also between peoples, cultures and civilizations on an international stage. Therefore, I was pleased with my colleagues two years ago to participate in the Interparliamentary Conference of Orthodoxism in Lebanon. For some, it was surprising why I, as a Muslim, accepted participation in a conference that was primarily called by Orthodox MPs, or MPs from Orthodox countries. I've been invited as a guest here by our MPs. I was happy to accept that, but also the effects of a three-day conference and participation in Beirut at that conference were extraordinary. I was, in particular, and as a Muslim, perhaps the only guest at that conference was extremely respected. It was actually an opportunity to talk about important topics and show that width, that it wasn't just the ability to make communication and co-operation within itself similar and within them. Anyone can do that. Being able to be only good with your own, with the same, with a similar, it's more of an animal urge, it's some idea of a herd, so it's more of an instinct, but being able to make good relationships with different, it's a real ethical, cultural and civilizational value. We have great potential here. First we have a serious tradition through history and this space. True, we have wonderful experiences, and unfortunately we have experience of conflict and war, but that's enough for me to realize that we have enough lessons to learn real lessons. History is too promoted as a life teacher, perhaps pretentious, but it's definitely not the only life teacher. There's a lot more teachers in life. And if we just accept history as the only teacher of life, then we risk turning back completely. So, it takes a completely cold-blooded past to take as a lesson, what is good to continue to develop, but what we did wrong is not a shame to say – this is wrong. It is no shame to say that it is not good that similar, related, different peoples in the Balkans have been fighting, fighting, fighting, and persecuting for over a hundred years. That's not good. It's not good for us to go on stubbornly in that same model, by the same concept, waiting for the time to come when we're going to be much stronger and all the others to win. That's not a good policy. I am pleased that this government and this country are increasingly turning to smart policy, a policy that will be based on real experience, a policy that will be turned to the future, where we will experience that we here in the Balkans, which I say, have many similarities. We also have differences, but neither should be something that divides us. It can all be actually the potential that we'll be proud of. What we are alike, related to the heritage of our free, but we also cannot, I will never agree with the definition that what I belong to, not by my will, not by my choice, but by the power of destiny. I was born in a people's Corps, and what I need, to seek a reward for belonging to one nation or to one nation. No, from an ethical point of view, from a cultural point of view, people can neither be punished nor rewarded for what they didn't decide. You can't consider yourself more valuable or less valuable because you belong to one nation, one community, one culture. No, you can't. You can only admire what you've achieved, with what's worth, which is the real value, with what you're distinguished by any knowledge, whether in culture, whether in ethics, or in the good part. So when we have more votes of this orientation, when we are louder in the qualitative promotion of the quality scale or the graduation, the graduation is only allowed in a valuable sense. There's no graduation in the color of the skin, no graduation in the nation. The lowest level of identity is what happened to you, what you didn't choose, what's simply a question you didn't decide on. I'm not asking if I'm going to be born a Bosniak or a member of another nation. Yeah, I'm glad I'm Bosniak, but I'm not asking to be decorated. I have no right to be valued and to say - no, members of other nations are less valuable. I have no right to do that. That's what I need here to significantly raise above. It's a reality. Serbs, Bosniaks, Montenegrins, Albanians, Croats, anyone, this is reality. It is our right and our national and cultural reality to allow everyone to develop it not in a way that we impose on them, not in a way that we shape and say it – no, you are, you are it, you are not it. That's rude. It's rude for members of one nation to deal with another nation. It is rude for me, as a Bosniak, to teach you Serbs how many Serbs you are, are you Serbs, since when, since you haven't, what about your language, what about your culture and vice versa. We need to establish quality cultural relations here, so that everyone decides to profile himself. We need to rule out the confession category. I confess to you, nation, I don't recognize nation. Well, it's the highest degree of non-culture and lagging. What does anyone have to confess or not confess to me? I don't even mind that. I've listened here and elsewhere -- that nonexistent nation, and the nonexistent language. Even some of my countrymen tell me - well, well, why aren't you responding? He's not touching me, man. What do I care if someone confesses to me? Because if anyone admits me, what am I going to be, more Bosniak, right? Or, if he doesn't recognize me or admit my language, am I a less Bosniak? I absolutely don't care, because I'm as much in my national, cultural and religious background as I really am. If I really am, I'm sure of it. The big problem is that many try to establish their own identity in the negation of others. That's what only those who actually have a crisis of their identity do. One who has security in his cultural, national, spiritual, or any other identity, he has no need to deny another. So these are some postulates that are very important for both local and regional, but also for overall international co-operation. The second topic is certainly important, as far as migrants are concerned, regarding the arrangement of relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. It's an extremely important topic, and we actually need to make agreements, settle laws on this matter. But to the truth, it should be pointed out that this country has shown an extremely dignified relationship when it comes to migrants and that is something to praise. Migrants and the migrant crisis are a great temptation and it is very difficult to remain balanced in terms of one ethical, human relationship with these harassed people, and on the other hand do not endanger its own system of security and the general system of functioning of the state and of the administrative apparatus. I'm glad that despite the gravity of this temptation, this country has managed to find that measure, that it has shown its human face, but also that it does not run away from responsibility, that it closely monitors all risks, all dangers, all the problems that can arise. I encourage this country and its authority to continue with humane relations with migrants, but certainly also to finalise the relationship to this issue and to this temptation and to prevent certainly the abuse of this issue, which could endanger the security of citizens in any part of this country. In this regard, our MPs, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the MPs of our Parliament club in the Election Day will give support to these agreements and, I believe, contribute to this country continuing to open the world, on all sides and to establish co-operation, which, if God gives, will bring us a much better, better and happier future than our past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2957	I thank Dr. Muamer Zukorlic, vice president of the National Assembly. The next one is the authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2958	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, respected ministry representatives, co-workers and fellow MPs, two months ago, more precisely on December 18th, the International Day of Migrants was marked. It may have been a day, but also as every other day of the year, to examine Serbia's position and how Serbia treats migrants and the migrant crisis. When a little over five years ago, five and a half years ago, the migrant crisis affected Europe, Serbia reacted well. Serbia has shown that it is well organised and, most importantly, has shown a human attitude towards migrants. In this light, I also look at the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia, which concerns the fight against migrant smuggling. The agreement aims to improve co-operation, in the sense of preventing human trafficking. In this sense, in particular, it refers to migrant smuggling. This implies respect for fundamental human rights, of course, in line with the international commitments undertaken. Wars in the territory of Syria, conflicts in countries in North Africa, conflicts in Iraq, conflicts in Afghanistan launched a single avalanche of people towards Europe five years ago, and this has been the biggest migrant crisis since World War II. There are refugees among these people, and we have to distinguish them from migrants, from economic migrants. Refugees who have fled the war, who have come from territories where strong armed fighting is being fought, but there are also economic migrants who have used this situation to reach extreme destinations, developed Western European countries where they see a chance of creating a better life in a safer place. In 2015, it is obvious that two decisions have contributed to the route that migrants are passing through, the so-called Balkan route, becoming attractive. First of all, it is the decision of the German authorities that told them they would not return refugees from Syria to their country. The second decision is for the Macedonian authorities to allow transit of migrants through their territory, that is, through their territory, because a large number of migrants across the Mediterranean were coming to Greece, then to Macedonia, and then proceeded through Serbia to Western Europe. It seems that the EU has not found an adequate response, that it has not responded well. The EU Member States did not have a common position on this issue. They had different opinions. On the other hand, the countries of Southeast Europe had only one goal, which is to get migrants through their territory as quickly as possible. Since 2015, according to some data, over a million migrants have passed through our country. They have moved their way north, west of Europe. The characteristic of all this was that they used this route to get to the final destinations as quickly as possible. The characteristic was their determination not to stay here, but to move on. In an agreement signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the authorities of the two countries will meet at least twice a year and, if necessary, to prevent human trafficking, with special reference to vulnerable groups such as children. According to UNICEF, out of the total number of people who came to Europe from North Africa and from the Middle East, one third are children. Indeed, all these people have gone on a risky journey with their families, into a risky adventure, where children and women are mostly physically exhausted, traumatized, and most of them need hospitalization, health care, care. We can never think of these people as just numbers. These are people who have a name and a last name, people who have their professions. They're often victims of smuggling. Exactly what this agreement is about. Smuggling victims become conscious, sometimes they themselves enter a network of smugglers to cross borders illegally and reach the Western European state. Serbia has responded adequately since the beginning of the migrant crisis. Serbia has shown that it is well organised, it has preserved, on the one hand, security, and on the other hand it has shown what is most important, it has shown humanity. As Social Democrats, we will always support such a responsible policy. We always see refugees as people who have fled the war, who need help. But, at the same time, security needs to be preserved in our country, as a country that is on its way to the final destinations of refugees. Unfortunately, in the wake of the migrant crisis, there have been abuses, many false news has often been staged, some misinformation, and it was usually done by certain political actors who wanted to build ratings on this false news. Serbian citizens do not treat migrants as a danger, but on the other hand, the truth is that the degree of tolerance is lower in those places where reception centres for migrants are located. The biggest problem is that a radicalised minority places once false news, places fictional events in order to make a certain political profit. The fictional news also came to the conclusion that the Serbian government's intention was to settle empty villages for migrants, that the state allegedly provides large financial assistance to migrants, and the only truth is that they were receiving financial assistance from humanitarian international organisations, and that they were being held back as soon as possible in our country. This should not be surprising either, since such phenomena have been expressed in other European countries. Certain political groups have recruited their supporters to lead the hunt against migrants by playing on a map of endangered identity. Of course, it should be said that there have been incidents when we talk about the migrant crisis. Most of these incidents were between the migrants themselves, but I think the state of response is adequate and peace has been preserved and order has been preserved. The number of migrants seeking asylum in Serbia is negligible, and according to some UN data, as many as 80% of them would have the right to asylum in accordance with international law. It is actually a data that suggests that migrants do not want to stay in either Greece, or Macedonia, or Serbia, and it is up to us to ensure that they do not violate our country's legal order in that transit. It's hard to stop people running from war, and they're looking for a better life somewhere else. Germany is a country, I return to the beginning, which opened the door for migrants. It is a country that has invested more than 20 billion euros in just one year to integrate these people into its community. Of course, they saw their interest in it. The fact is, we're not going to solve the migrant crisis ourselves. The fact is that it must be an agreement of all European countries, and that we bring our policy into line with our interests and with the policy of other European countries. We've shown a positive relationship and empathy towards migrants, and I think it's somewhere and the consequence of us facing similar problems in the near past. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support this agreement because it is an agreement that deals in a civilized way with the issue of migrants, as we will also support all measures aimed at the fight against crime, to fight corruption, as one monster that bites society in every form. It is one struggle that must be persistent, to show that all citizens of Serbia are equal in front of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2959	I thank the president of the SDPS parliamentary group. The next word has the mandated representative of the Single Serbia Group, Life of Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2960	We are today discussing two bilateral agreements between the Republic of Serbia, one with the Kingdom of Lesota in the area of defence, and the other with the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the area of the fight against migrant smuggling. We in the JS feel that both of these agreements are important and I will try to explain in this presentation why we as a parliamentary group will support these proposals in the voting day. In fact, we can often hear you – you are as rich as you have friends. We here at each assembly session are considering several bilateral agreements of our country and we see it in the light that these agreements strengthen political co-operation. Political co-operation is the result of developing and economic relations and simply creating overall good, friendly relations and relations with other countries. By doing so, each agreement makes Serbia richer. What is also very important is that in today's world, burdened by increased tensions, war conflicts, a constant, constant threat to terrorism, in a world in which organised crime has long lost its national mark and overcome even regional frameworks and is given a global proportion, such agreements in the field of defence, such agreements in the area of trade and smuggling of migrants, which are part of organised crime, are certainly important in the process of prevention, repression and combating these negative processes that devour today's civilization. The first agreement is an agreement in the area of defence with the Kingdom of Lesota, with a country that has about 300,000 square miles [300,000 km], which is, in order to compare, the size of about one Belgium, with a country in which it lives slightly more than two million inhabitants and, above all, with a country that has been encouraged to side with justice and truth, with one of 18 states that have withdrawn the recognition of the independence of our southern province. More specifically, on 16 October 2018, the current president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, then foreign minister, received a diplomatic note from then-Kingdom Lesotto, in which the Kingdom of Lesotto considers its only contribution to the solution of Kosovo's future status to support dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, rather than defining its status before the dialogue ends. It therefore states that the issue of Kosovo's statehood is premature and that the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotto has not declared itself on this issue, nor will it do so as long as the dialogue continues and will support the outcome of the dialogue. Also, the diplomatic note states that the Kingdom of Lesotto government at the same time withdraws all previous statements regarding Kosovo, especially those that can be interpreted in any way as recognition of Kosovo's independence, and that is also in that note. A year later, if I am not mistaken in October 2019, Belgrade was visited by then Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotto Mr. Tabane and was accepted from the entire state summit and somewhere the result of this visit is this agreement that we are talking about today, an agreement in the area of defence. The agreement implies co-operation in defence and security policy areas, military education and training agreements, military-economic co-operation agreements, scientific and technical co-operation, the agreement also treats the area of military medicine and veterinary medicine, as well as other areas agreed by the two sides. This is an agreement with a friendly country, with a country that, at one important moment for us, as I said, is encouraged to side with truth and justice and to withdraw recognition of Kosovo and thus strengthen our fight for what is, I would say, the cornerstone, the basic postulate of politics and the state of Serbia, but also the unique Serbia and this foundation of the Single Serbia policy stands in the very name of the party, which is state integrity, i.e. integrity and sovereignty in every part of our country. Given this support of the Kingdom of Lesotto, we view this agreement as very positive and, of course, we will support this agreement in the voting day. The second agreement we are discussing today is an agreement with our southern neighbour, Northern Macedonia, on co-operation in the field of combating migrant smuggling. The definition of organised migrant smuggling is also set out in the UN Protocol against migrant smuggling at 3a. It states that smuggling of migrants means ensuring illegal entry into a Member State for a person who is not a citizen, or does not have a place of residence and residence, and in order to obtain direct or indirect financial or other material benefits. Of course, this Agreement with Northern Macedonia, with the exception of relying on the legislation of the two countries of Serbia and Northern Macedonia, lies in this UN Protocol, which says at point 10. states of the signatories, particularly those with common borders and those located on the roads on which migrant smuggling is carried out, in order to achieve the objectives of the Protocol, will exchange mutually in accordance with their domestic legal and administrative system relevant information on issues such as identity and methods of organisations and organised crime groups known or suspected to be engaged in migrant smuggling activities, which are points and destinations and routes, carriers and means of transport and other information that would help combat organised smuggling of migrants. It's part of an organized crime that has taken hold of the world and has great conditions everywhere. The Republic of Serbia and Northern Macedonia are located in one of the main directions of migrants from the war-affected areas of the Middle East, South Asia. I must say that the migrant crisis did not begin in 2011, when the EU declared it. So, the migration crisis and these movements and the process existed before 2011, but it did not end in 2019, when the EU said the migration crisis was over. This process, as we can see, continues today. Of course, the crisis peaked in 2015, when more than a million migrants entered Europe through the Mediterranean and through Southeast Europe, or the Balkans, or via countries in the Balkans, including Serbia, and this process later began to decrease and erod, so that in 2019, according to Eurostat, around 219,000 migrants entered Europe. The country most migrants entered is Germany, Hungary, Sweden and Austria. Since 2011, the most migrants have left Syria, about six million, then, of course, the beginning of the war conflicts in Syria in 2011, these migrants have mostly settled in the surrounding countries, primarily Turkey, around 3.6 million now, then, in Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt, but also in the EU. So, migrants have the highest number of Turkey 3.6, and in Europe 1.1 million came to Germany. As far as Serbia's countries are concerned, a little more than a million migrants have passed through Serbia since 2015. In 19 asylum reception centres, about six thousand migrants are currently in our country's territory, about 660 children. Half of these migrants come from Syria, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. It is estimated that there are about a thousand migrants outside the reception centres. I must stress this opportunity that in the vast majority of them, Serbia represents a road stop and that disinformation about how Serbia will place them here, integrate and that these misinformations are the fruit of pure fiction. The fact that international protection in Serbia received only 28 people in last year, in 2019, also contributes. However, we are witnessing the fact that the presence of migrants increases the level of anxiety among citizens in areas where reception centres are located, which is because of the spontaneous incidents by migrants, which is because of the misinformation that seems to me to be tending to spread on this issue. The most common thing behind these misinformation is the desire to gain political attention from certain political and interest structures. The state of Serbia has managed the migrant crisis well so far, and it seems to me that it has found a good balance between preserving the security of our citizens in areas where migrants are present on the one hand and the desire of the Serbian state to provide the conditions for migrants during their stay in Serbia in accordance with all international rights and human rights conventions, and so on. Of course, the goal of all these migrants is to join EU countries above all in Germany, and they are on this extremely uncertain and dangerous road, an uncertain road that is precisely the goal of entering EU countries. In that situation, those people who are outside the law saw an opportunity to make good money on the accidents of people who want to get their hands on a better life by running away from their war-torn areas. That's how organized criminal groups are created, dealing with illegal smuggling of migrants, and it's really a big illegal job today, not with us, but in the world. Given the fact that somewhere around 79 million people are forced to move around the world, which is almost one percent of the world's population, then we can see what the situation of this illegal, this migrant smuggling is. The Republic of Serbia is fighting to prevent this smuggling. We had an opportunity already in December, mid-December, or if I am not mistaken December 22nd, 12 people who participated in the transfer of 310 migrants to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia were arrested. This is a major contribution from the Serbian state to this fight, but of course these organised crime groups are not only national and regional but are linked to similar groups and to our neighbouring countries, so this agreement with the Republic of Northern Macedonia will also make a significant contribution to preventing this type of organised crime, i.e. preventing illegal smuggling of migrants. Unique Serbia supports every kind of fight against crime, including the fight against illegal smuggling of migrants, and that is why we will be happy to support this agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2961	Thank you, deputy president of the JS parliamentary group. The word has the president of the SPS parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2962	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Honored Presidency, Honored Ministers, Honored Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen National MPs, before I begin the story of the agreements that today are the topic of today's session, the agreements that you have, as you said in the opening statement and here fully agree and of practical and political importance, allow me to take advantage of your presence in today's meeting and to show once more full support to you, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia on one decisive, unselective and continuous fight against crime and corruption. The SPS parliamentary group, and we've already talked about it, believes that our security structures and the MUP and the BIA and the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime have done a great job and we believe when you say that this fight will continue. You certainly have the support of the SPS parliamentary group in that. This is a serious blow to organised crime in Serbia. You know, right before the constitution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic spoke of six key points that will be contained in the exposé, in fact, which will be pillars of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia's exhibition and then said that one of those six key points is just fighting crime and corruption. It was then heard from one part of the opposition that it was the seasonal performance of the President of the Republic. In this way, the Government of the Republic of Serbia shows by works, not by saying that this is not a seasonal performance and that in fact one of the six key principles and principles based on which the Government of the Republic of Serbia was formed is just an organized fight against crime and corruption. This is certainly also a confirmation of the state's ability and willingness to give citizens a sense of confidence that citizens are safe, that citizens are safe and that, as a colleague who has spoken to the president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, no one in Serbia is above the law and no one can be stronger than the state. In all of this, I repeat once again, dear ministers, you have the full support of the SPS parliamentary group. So, as I said today, there are two agreements, agreements that speak of very important areas in establishing co-operation with the Kingdom of Lesota and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, agreements that have both practical and political significance. The key word for both agreements is co-operation, it is precisely building better bilateral relations, good relations with countries, regardless of their distance and regardless of their size. It doesn't matter whether Lesotto is a big or small state, she is an internationally recognised state and state who had the courage when few who had the courage to come out very clearly and in principle, or to change their position on the issue of unilaterally declared independence of KIM and, of course, in a sign of that gratitude, we give full support to this agreement. Namely, the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Lesotto in the area of defence was concluded and signed in Belgrade, in October 2019, and it paved the way for further co-operation in security policy, military, economic co-operation, as well as military education. Although these two countries are marked by close friendship, this has already been said, since the time of Joseph Broz Tito and the Movement of Unclassified, relations between Serbia and Lesota have begun before the independence of Lesota that took place in 1966. So official diplomatic relations were established in 1972 and only a few agreements in the fields of scientific, technical co-operation, foreign affairs, agriculture and forestry were concluded during this period. As I said, the Kingdom of Lesotto is one of 18 states that has withdrawn recognition of Kosovo's independence and we are very grateful for the unconditional support and preservation of our territorial integrity and sovereignty. But since there has been a change of government in the Kingdom of Lesotto, there is now a need to continue to deepen co-operation and build new relations in new areas and monitor, of course, the current political developments in this country. We also express great gratitude for the fact that Lesotto voted at Interpol General Assembly against attempts by Pristina authorities to do so. Kosovo joins the international organisation. In addition to these agreements, of course, we are also interested in improving co-operation in a number of other areas, such as education and culture. Foreign students, said counterpart Zukorlic, have been present for decades at universities in Serbia, where they gain diplomas and experience, with which they return to their countries, as the best promoters of our society, as well as cultures, cultural heritage and traditions. Years ago, therefore, the project "World in Serbia", which provides students from all over the world to meet our country, learn our language, learn knowledge at our higher education institutions, or universities. Realisation of this programme, which would provide scholarships for students from Lesota who would study in Serbia, would, in our opinion, be a good incentive for further development of co-operation. The second agreement on the agenda today is an agreement with Northern Macedonia. And here I fully agree with your finding when you say that the migrant crisis that began in 2011, whose peak was in 2015, is unfortunately not yet in sight. Large forces and the EU have no response to the migrant crisis and therefore Serbia's co-operation is important in this area, especially with countries in the region. As far as Northern Macedonia is concerned, from the time of the collapse of the SFRY and to this day the Republic of Northern Macedonia is the only country of all our former republics with which Serbia has good relations, which are not burdened with some war legacy. Also, to remind the fact that during the NATO attack on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Northern Macedonia did not allow its territory to be used for military actions aimed at our territory, which is the fruit of our good relations that we are promoting today. After the collapse of Yugoslavia, when all former republics formed their countries, bilateral diplomatic relations between our two countries were established in 1996 and assessed as friendly and warm. We have good political, security, economic relations, and the peoples of the two countries see themselves as good friends, thanks primarily to the long tradition of living together. Northern Macedonia is a significant trading partner of our country. We have open and controversial issues when it comes to the relations of our two countries, but we have always been about solving them through dialogue and through co-operation. A number of bilateral and regional initiatives on co-operation agreements in different areas are also the result of good relations. During 2019, for example, the agreement between Serbia and Northern Macedonia was ratified, which establishes an integrated Presevo-Tabanovce border crossing, which brings control at this border crossing together, allowing faster crossing of the border with a freight vehicle and is another signal to encourage regional co-operation and trade in goods and better control. Also, the result of regional co-operation is mini Shengen. It is certainly a visionary project, a visionary move, which was agreed to allow travel only with a personal map between Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. Also, agreement was reached on unique work permits, mutual assistance such as basic accidents and faster customs work. Over the past few years, Europe has faced very important international issues, and this is a matter of migration crisis. Data on the migration crisis were discussed by a short-time colleague from Unity of Serbia. An agreement with the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the prevention of migrant smuggling, which we are talking about today, has special significance, I would say, because both Serbia and Northern Macedonia are on the main migrant route. This area is often transitable to EU countries for migrants. The migrants, unfortunately, do not always want to be identified and registered and resort to illegal crossings from one country to another. The illegal transportation of migrants is being organised by some individuals, and more often there are organised criminal groups using illegal crossings between Serbia and Northern Macedonia. That's how they make money from migrants and don't worry about the crime. Unfortunately, migrants who are illegally transferred from Northern Macedonia to other neighbouring countries to Serbia are not registered, are unable to use their migrant rights. As a member of the UN, our country has signed a UN Convention on Asylum and Migrants, which has also been introduced into our national legislation, which is precisely allowing different types of social support for migrants who regularly enter our country. But bootleggers with illegal routes are moving through our country, and there have been several excesses and problems that our domestic point of view has had with that group of migrants. Serbia is a country that understands the problems and motives of migrants, but also has an obligation to protect its citizens from any excesses, and Serbia is doing so successfully. We know from the media a number of different problems that migrants have caused. On the other hand, most migrants for whom Serbia has built and equipped migrant centres and made it possible to integrate must respect our country's attitude towards them. I would also like to point out that in 2020, the years of great challenges caused by the pandemic, first of all, the crown of the virus, and that our system has succeeded, has not left out migrants in terms of protection, but has acted very responsiblely and very seriously. Finally, I want to point out that our asylum system is one of the most organized and humane in Europe. Serbia has shown that it is safer than many European Union countries when it comes to the migrant crisis. Therefore, the co-operation of Serbia-North Macedonia's competent authorities is another valuable space to address the issue of migrant smuggling, and it is not, in all likelihood, simple, and there will be a short deadline, as you said, for resolving it. That's why any activity to monitor and suppress illegal migrant routes is of great human importance to both countries. Of course, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support both agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2963	I thank the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I now give my word to the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Aleksandr Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2964	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the adoption of the Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Co-operation in the area in the fight against migrant smuggling, is due to the fact that the Western Balkans remains a transit route for smuggling migrants trying to reach Western European countries, or the European Union. Part of the migrants illegally crosses the border, mostly using alternative methods and routes, as well as smuggling services that provide both individuals and organised criminal groups. Smuggling migrants, especially the most vulnerable among them, such as women, children, unaccompanied minors, are often affected by various forms of crime, such as violence, theft, kidnapping, extortion, trafficking, etc. Although deaths are rare along the Western-Balkan route, they happen. The problem of smuggling migrants and illegal border crossing has also been recognised by the European Union as one of the key problems. In this respect, I will mention the European Commission's data that 114 were registered in the period from January to November of last year, so in 2020. 300 illegal crossings of the borders of the European Union. What is significant in this context from the point of view of the Republic of Serbia is the fact that migrant smuggling is constantly one of the topics of the European Union's progress report on Western Balkan countries. Given that this is a cross-border phenomenon of the Western Balkan state, they should have a common regional response to this common problem, and one of the main objectives should be strengthening regional co-operation and good neighbourly relations, developing a single regional response to this problem, the problem of migrant smuggling. I can freely conclude that Serbia has continued to make a significant contribution to the management of migration flows towards the European Union, especially its active and constructive role, as well as co-operation with neighbouring countries and Member States of the European Union. As you all know, the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia has prescribed that the illegal crossing of the state border and smuggling of people is a criminal offence. With that in mind, it should be stressed that interstate co-operation in this area is in a much more effective way opposed to individuals and organised crime groups who are trying to take advantage of the opportunity that has arisen for them and for the sake of obtaining personal property benefits. It should not be forgotten that, in addition to the direct fight against crime, every agreement of this kind has more positive aspects, and I would say a security aspect. So in order to protect the safety of its citizens, the state has an obligation to know which faces enter and exit its territory. It is not rare that persons who are closely associated with terrorist or extremist organisations use alternative methods and routes of crossing state borders and in this respect is particularly important faster and more efficient exchange of information in order to detect precisely those alternative routes and those alternative routes in time. I'd like to mention a health aspect here. I think he's very active in these days. Illegal migrants are not subject to any forms of health control and when entering territories even transit countries, illegal migrants can easily contact the local population, the population of the country and endanger their health to various infectious diseases. On the other hand, it is not possible to provide illegal migrants with adequate and necessary medical assistance in due time. Also, no less significant is the humanitarian aspect of this problem. As I mentioned at the outset, illegal migrants include particularly sensitive groups of persons, children, unaccompanied minors, women, who are mostly affected by various forms of crime that follow this form of human trafficking. This fight against migrant smuggling is at the same time becoming a battle against violence, kidnapping, extortion and human trafficking. The most important areas prescribed by this Agreement include competences, as we have heard from the Minister in the introductory word, jurisdiction, forms of co-operation, joint investigation teams, as well as the implementation of joint projects, exchange of experiences, protection of personal data and the exchange and protection of classified information, as well as competences to resolve possible disputes. In particular, I would like to highlight the importance of forming joint investigation teams, as well as the way in which direct communication is prescribed, which I am quite sure will significantly increase efficiency in the work of the competent authorities. The policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is particularly viewed in the defence segment in terms of military neutrality, gives us the opportunity to co-operate closely in the area of defence with all countries. So, both east and west. Thus, today, we also have before us a proposal for a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Lesotto on co-operation in the area of defence, which sets out the basic principles and objectives on which co-operation between the two states in the area of defence will be based, and in order to develop and strengthen overall bilateral relations. At first, I would take the opportunity to point out that the Kingdom of Lesotto, which we heard from the promoters, revised its decision on the recognition of the self-proclaimed independence of Kosovo and Metohija and thus provided full support for the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. I think it is important to point out as further confirmation of our two countries' overall friendly relations. I would like to express my special satisfaction with the fact that our country has become an exporter of security through increasingly significant participation in international multinational operations, training and education programmes, as well as various forms of military-economic co-operation, and we have earned the respect of other participating countries through our engagement. It has been pointed out more than once that this is how our country's reputation is raised and that it is not just a phrase I can confirm based on official contacts with foreign diplomats who openly express praise at the expense of members of our defence forces. Further improving this co-operation, based on respect for mutual interests, has been a realistic and appropriate approach for years back to our country in achieving our interests in the area of defence and I would therefore welcome the confirmation of the proposed agreement with the Kingdom of Lesota, which is today ahead of us, believing that any agreement of this kind contributes significantly to strengthening Serbia's reputation in the world. The most important areas prescribed by the Agreement include areas of co-operation, way of implementing the agreement, annual co-operation plan, data exchange, health protection and resolution of possible disputes. I would particularly highlight the importance of defining co-operation in the areas of military and security policy, military-economic co-operation, scientific and technical co-operation, military education and training, as well as co-operation in the field of military medicine. In addition to strengthening co-operation with other countries in the area of defence, I would also point out the importance of strengthening our military industry, especially because of the possibility of less dependent on imports of equipment and weapons from abroad. Let me conclude that these two agreements that are on the agenda today, although different in nature, have one common denominator, as I said in the opening part, which is co-operation. Therefore, as for the above, I am extremely pleased that, as chairman of the Committee, both agreements were discussed, I find that all the members of the Committee were unequivocal and undivided in the assessment that they should be proposed to the National Assembly to accept them in the voting day. Dear Mr. Vulin, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate you once again as Resort Minister for your successful action in the form of arrest and breaking organized criminal clans. You well know that the uncompromising and uncompromising fight against corruption and crime, particularly organised crime, is extremely high on the list of priorities and represents, let me say, the basis of the work of this government, whose backbone makes the SNS the head of which is Alexander Vukic. It is extremely important that this fight goes to the end, to deal with crime in Serbia and to send a clear message that zero tolerance for crime has been established, but also a message that there are no protected as we have said in Serbia, there are no untouchables, there are no privileges when it comes to it, no one is stronger than the state and that the state will always have the strength to beat anyone who tries to put it above the law, and that is the key difference between Serbia today led by Aleksandar Vukic and former Serbia led by Tadic, Djilas, Pajtic, Ponoš, Borko Stefanovic, Jeremic and everyone else. The more determined and persistent we are today in this fight that we are fighting for Serbia, the more orderly and successful Serbia will be tomorrow, Serbia has changed permanently and irreversibly, and there is no going back to the old one. I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister of Defence, Mr Stefanovic, and I hope that Mr Glisic will pass on congratulations to him, on the unreserved push for a better position and material status of the Serb soldier, which has resulted in an increase in salaries for members of the Serbian Army, but also in the announcement of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic that the state will continue to invest large funds in the purchase of arms, the purchase of equipment, and also to take care of its soldiers. It is extremely important that we have a strong army and a strong defence system, because, with a good economic and economic picture of Serbia, one of the key factors for us to remain an uncut regional leader, but also to remain a factor of peace and stability in this part of Europe or in the Balkans or in the region, however you wish. For the military, you will notice that some are commenting that we are actually preparing for war, on the contrary we want a strong and powerful army precisely because we are not going to new wars, precisely because we do not want any new conflicts, but what we want is for Serbia to be ready and able to protect its people always and in every place and we want peace and stability in the region. I cannot look back on the initiative to return regular military service, which practically opened social dialogue in Serbia on this subject, and I would point out what the resolution minister pointed out on several occasions, which is that it is a very serious issue that should be very carefully considered and all arguments should be heard in this debate. I also can't help but notice that some media, which are the media under the control of Dragan Gilas, are running an extremely negative campaign in this regard. However, if we look at it, their mentors in their time, in their years of power in Serbia, destroyed the army in all ways, and then there is no surprise in their open contempt for the military, but it is not just contempt for the Serbian Army. There's a constant attack on everything that's good for the state, and every idea is going to attack, every idea will be criticised whether it's good for the citizens or not. That part of Gilas's opposition can't stop being the opposition of the state. So, be the opposition of the government, attack us, criticize us, it's somewhere and normal, it's somewhere and natural, attack us, but stop being an opposition to the state, stop running politics -- the worse for Serbia, the better for them, because it always turns out that the better it goes to Serbia, the worse it goes to them. I thank and call on the MPs to support the proposed agreements in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2965	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Before we go to the speaker list, the word is Secretary Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2966	Your Honor, I really thank you for the great attention you give to what the MUP is doing and the action it has carried out together with the BIA and the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime. President Alexander Vukic has declared war on the mafia. He talked about it many times, and he was particularly determined to say it about 100 days ago. At that moment, as we all know, representatives of the extraparliamentary opposition parties began to mock what he said. Then they laughed, and now that you've seen the fight against the organized crime that he's ordered, he's running, he's looking for President Alexander Vukic, I don't hear them laughing. Now they're trying to find a number of reasons, an excuse for why something shouldn't have happened, but no one's laughing anymore. The state has shown its seriousness. During this important and large operation, President Aleksandar Vucic was informed and during every step of this activity, he knew what would happen, when he was going to happen and personally took part in the decision-making process. President Aleksandar Vukic is a part of, an important part, a crucial political part of the fight against organised crime and that is why these actions are so successful. I should say immediately and share that hope with all citizens of Serbia. This will continue, this won't stop. At this point, while Belivuk's criminal group, Miljkovic, while in prison, is conducting investigations. Let me tell you right now that financial controls are being carried out. Our unit dealing with financial controls is checking their assets, has already issued a ban on alienation and the availability of assets by all members of the organized criminal group, and that is how we will always work. You know, crime usually has its primary interest in getting it against legal property benefits. When the state comes to you one day, and it comes and always comes for you, when it takes away what you sold your soul to the devil and for what you've done, then you realize that there's no point in dealing with crime, because you won't be able to pass it on to your families, your children, that you've actually punished them, your family and your children the most, that you've done them nothing good, on the contrary, just great and terrible evil. These actions will continue, and we are already preparing to continue this operation, and I am proud to say that President Aleksandar Vukic insists both with the MUP and the BIA that there are no protecteds, that we can and must comply with the law to do our job and that no one is so powerful that he is untouchable and that his violation of the law can be forgiven, no one at all. When you have such a president and such a commander-in-chief, then it's not too hard to do what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2967	I thank Minister Voulina. Since there are no more authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups reported in the system, as I have announced, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The People's Messenger Joseph Broz has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2968	Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, we are talking at today's session about a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotto on co-operation in the area of defence. For me, this agreement has special significance, because it is about restoring co-operation with a once unclassified country that has been our country's traditional friend since that period. I would like to remind you of the importance of the movements of non-classified for the global peace of that era and of the balance it has provided in the then-blocked world. At that time, the Unclassified were imposed as a peacetime movement, and Yugoslavia and Joseph Broz Tito were the founders of this movement. Yugoslavia has taken the lead in this movement, and Tito was considered an informal leader of the Unclassified. Although the movement was primarily political, it significantly raised and improved economic and military-technical co-operation among all non-classified countries. Yugoslavia was a dominant factor in infrastructure projects, we built dams, stadiums, military facilities, energy plants around the world of the Unclassified. We were a powerful and internationally influential country and a promoter of world peace and freedom among the nations. We have advocated the end of the bloc's division of the world and the decolonization process, for the rapid development of undeveloped states, especially in Africa and Asia. At our universities, he studied a number of students from unclassified countries. Co-operation with many non-classified states has been renewed in recent years, in which the then foreign minister has played a significant role, and now National Assembly President Ivica Dacic, who has intensified this co-operation during his term of office. The fruit of renewed friendly relations is the fact that many non-classified countries have not only recognised the so-called so-called so-called so-called country. The "state of Kosovo" or diplomatic activity, Ivica Dacic, has withdrawn the recognition. Among the states that withdrew recognition is the Kingdom of Lesota, which did so in 2018, followed by other forms of co-operation. One of the important results of this co-operation is this Agreement with Lesota on Defence Co-operation, which was signed in 2019 by Ivica Dacic as foreign minister. This agreement is of great importance to our friendly countries, which are members of the UN. The agreement should contribute to improving co-operation in defence and security policies, military-technical co-operation, military education and training, as well as in the military medicine and veterinary sector. This agreement, I believe, will improve co-operation in all long areas, and it is already an interest for Lesota students to be educated at our universities. Serbia has the capacity to restore this co-operation in the field of education as it once existed at the time of the Unclassified when students from these countries studied here, and today as prominent experts and diplomats around the world, significant promoters of our culture, traditions and freedom flows, and we thank them for that. Finally, as a member of the SPS parliamentary group and as a member of the Parliament's group of friendships with the Kingdom of Lesota, a country where I was honored to stay and be welcomed with great respect I would like to support the Agreement on our co-operation in the field of defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2969	I thank the People's Messenger, Joseph Broz. The word has a People's Messenger, Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2970	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, respected ministers with assistants, are in front of us today, I can say very two important agreements. As we have heard from Mr Broz's previous presentation, it is very good to continue the good tradition and good connections that the SRJ, or the SFRY, had with the non-classified countries with which it should be counted, and to which support should be deepened really, and to count on their support on the international plan. The second agreement ahead of us today aims to improve the co-operation between our country and northern Macedonia to prevent the fight against organised smuggling of migrants and has been as effective as possible is something that really needs to be supported. Of course, this implies that we should respect basic human rights in accordance with the international standards and obligations undertaken. The agreement signed between the government of the Republic of Serbia and Northern Macedonia, which concerns the fight against migrant smuggling, states that the competent authorities of the two countries will be composed twice a year at least and will exchange information and data to prevent human trafficking and that is certainly something to support, with special reference to the protection of vulnerable groups such as children. According to UNICEF, about one third of the migrants who tried to reach developed countries in Europe are children and many have embarked on this risky adventure to avoid war and reach a better place to live. Many, especially children, are physically exhausted, traumatized, and most of them need medical attention. I have to say, as one title says, very current, it says that migrants are indeed today in the great proportions of the crown of the virus and this epidemic, because they are particularly vulnerable. Instead of one hope, they have only fear, first of all for their health in a situation where all health systems are in the environment and in the world overloaded and there are not enough resources to maintain basic hygiene measures, of course, that the migrants are the most affected. The information says most of them, that Kovid has passed over and that he is further concerned that in their countries where they come from, vaccination is not planned until 2024. Here's a moment to see what is the grace of what we have in our country, that we are practically able to choose which vaccine, that we can protect our population in the right and only civilized and scientific way. Some countries, especially underdeveloped and poor, cannot do so until 2024, 2028. It is a sign that we have worked very hard and very well in this field as Government. Migrants, once again, look forward to me very much and it is indeed an example of how our country has treated migrants since 2015, 2016. This, above all, is what makes me happy as a socialist, is a human and human relationship with people whose lives are at stake and who run from war, running away from monsters is something that this country has shown and has settled in order, I can say, along with Germany and a few European countries, the most human countries with one truly human approach to this world's problem. I said, we must not forget that these people who have a name and a name, people with their professions and many of them can be victims of smuggling and they are. They're really conscious of taking over certain, to say the risks of getting to someone, for them, the ultimate goal. I can of course, unfortunately, many also lose their lives on that path to the desired destinations. Serbia has responded adequately since the beginning of the migrant crisis. On the way through our country, people have received temporary accommodations, food, medical aid, and we as Social Democrats will always support this approach and attitude towards every man. Of course, a lot of false, false information has been placed in the wake of the migrant crisis. We live in the era of false news, and some political movements, political parties and us, and above all in Europe, have tried to put a Stigma on migrants and to present them as a danger, primarily by spreading false news that the state of Serbia is giving them huge funds, giving them personal incomes. Of course, that was not true, that the Republic of Serbia has done in its capabilities what it has done to all the conventions and by agreeing with European laws to do what needs to be done as a modern, developed and human state, and that what they have some income comes from EU funds and UNICEF and other organisations that help them, and they certainly need help. Of course, most Serbian citizens tend to migrants and do not treat them as some kind of danger, but it should be said that the threshold of tolerance in the environments where reception centres are located, especially in the northern parts of our country, is somewhat lower. I have to say, are the migrants a security threat to our country? No, they are certainly not, according to the data that we have, migrants participate in committing crimes less than 1% compared to the total population of our country, which shows us that they really do not pose any security risk that there is, if it is said that there are currently 6,015 migrants in the Republic of Serbia who have requested accommodation in our asylum centres, 660 children, this is indeed one symbolic figure and again proves what we have claimed to be a transit country in Serbia and that these people are trying to find a better life in Western developed countries. You know that in Sandzak, or Tutin and Senica there are these asylum centers that are very well organized, in which they live very pleasantly, and I really must commend the response of the local population. Once again, the Sandzaklies showed that people are openhearted and that they really have a special sensitivity to help those who need help most. Finally, many of our humanitarian organisations working in Novi Pazar send help not only in Serbia to these asylum centres and migrants and refugees, but also in countries in the environment, above all in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They try in every way to help these people with their clothes, clothes, and basic supplies. In any case, as Social Democrats, we will always support humanism, always support humanity, and always support this attitude, and indeed warmly support everything the government does on this road and this way. So we will, of course, vote for these two proposals in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2971	I thank the People's MP, Dr. Muamer Bacec, without commenting on the contents of your speech, of course agreeing with humanity, but I still have to point out that in the north of Vojvodina it's different. I just received pictures from the populated town of Rab that during the night, migrants had just entered the KUD premises and completely demoted the building and I agree that the government of the Republic of Serbia should secure the property of our citizens. (Muamer Bačevac: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't want to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2972	Do not allow yourself to comment on my speech from the chair. You can express your views from this place and I call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 107. Please don't let yourself do that anymore. We can agree or disagree with the migrants, it's our human and parliamentary obligation, but we have to abide by the Rules of Procedure. I don't want to hear about the injury of the Rules of Procedure pleading.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2973	I was just about to ask if you wanted the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day. You don't want to. Thank you. We're moving on. Next on the list, MP Mr. Djordje Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2974	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers Vulin and his associates, the President-in-Office, Mrs Kovac, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, are present today two draft laws confirming the agreement, the first between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to confirm the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of the fight against migrant smuggling and the second between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotto on defence co-operation. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS Parliamentary Group in the voting day will support the aforementioned drafts of the law on the signing of the agreement because I must say at the very beginning that every agreement signed by the Republic of Serbia with a country will further open the door to Serbia's co-operation with the country and in other areas of importance for our country. When it comes to the first agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, to say that it was created as a fruit of desire for both of the countries to improve this area further, to further strengthen the fight against migrant smuggling. When it comes to the migrant crisis, I must say that in this area Serbia has proved more organised, humane and safer than many EU countries. But what I would especially like to talk about today and throw an accent on it is the first and first area of co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Northern Macedonia and the area of assistance Serbia in the fight against Kovid 19 when Serbia gave eight thousand vaccines talking about the need for co-operation between Serbia and the countries of the environment, the countries that belong to the Western Balkans, because only when we co-operate... in all these areas, we are much stronger not only towards the EU, but also towards other international actors because a joint performance, I say, ministers, in all areas contributes to the improvement of all the Western Balkan countries. In particular, small markets certainly do not have a big chance or have any chance on the EU's single market, and all the Western Balkan countries are small countries and when we co-operate in any area we can give results and this initiative is mini Schengen, an initiative that changes the Western Balkans in every sense. Thus, this initiative facilitates the flow of people and goods and capital on the one hand, and on the other hand develops in all areas of good neighbourly relations between the Western Balkan countries. Here when I say the countries of the Western Balkans, I have to say that I think of all five countries of the Western Balkans, I mean Serbia with my southern province, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia, BiH and Albania. It is clear here that many Western Balkan countries are not so sure that this initiative can lead us to a little further away from the EU, and I think that the truth is completely on the other side, that this initiative is bringing us closer to the EU. On the other hand, I want to say that the EU needs to be honest with us, to tell us what the future of the Western Balkans is and on the other hand whether it is counting on us or constantly setting up some criteria that we have fulfilled years ago. Minister, I'm sure you agree with me when I say that we have met all these criteria once more. On the other hand, when we talk about Serbia, let's take big steps forward without comparing the results between us and the EU countries, but let's just say some parameters – first, economic growth is dominant with us, on the other hand, fighting Kovid 19 and not going any further. Just to say one important thing, we ask the EU for only one thing, and that is to tell us what clarity and long-sightedness is and nothing more. When it comes to an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Lesotto to say that it is a friendly country, a country that has fully supported the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia by withdrawing recognition of the false unrecognizable quasi of the state of Kosovo. Serbia, according to Lesota and other countries of Africa, has this former Yugoslav policy of heritage, friendship policy, and we have the desire to further strengthen these friendly relations, political relations, cultural relations and any other relationship with both Lesota and other countries of Africa. In the end, let me just say that the JS Parliamentary Group will support both proposals in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2975	I thank the People's MP, George Kosanic. The word has a folk letter from Justin Pupun Koscal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2976	I thank the esteemed chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the area of combating migrant smuggling is a very important bilateral agreement with a neighbouring country, which is also Serbia on the main migrant route towards Western Europe. Migration and uncontrollable migrant routes in today's circumstances pose a security challenge for both Serbia and all other migrant routes. Migrations, especially inregular ones, are inevitably leading to an increase in the risk of domestics both from infectious diseases and from crime and from terrorism. Serbia is a transit country for migrants, but these migrants remain relatively long because their roads to EU countries are mostly closed. The difference between migrants who have arrived in Serbia on regular roads is important, from migrants who have arrived in Serbia on illegal roads with the help of organised smuggling groups. Unfortunately, many choose illegal crossings instead of legal migrant roads, thinking that this will make it faster to the EU's desired country. And illegal crossings are organised by smugglers who, in trouble, have spent some months on the road running from war, earn money. Smuggling migrants can be difficult to track and cannot be covered by any protection measures. That's why it's important for the security authorities to discover the channels that migrants smuggle through find the country. This task is not easy and therefore agreements with neighbouring countries that prevent smuggling are very important. As Serbia and Northern Macedonia are on the main migrant route because of their geostrategic position, both countries need to fight together and organisedally against migrant smuggling in order to bring the security of citizens to a minimum, as well as for the security of our country. In that sense, the agreement signed between the government of Serbia and Northern Macedonia is of special importance to both countries. Human trafficking is considered a serious crime and part of organised crime, both under our two countries' national laws and international law. As a result, smugglers must not tolerate or remain unpunished. To remind us that for five years Serbia has hosted a large number of migrants who are looking for a safe and better life in EU countries temporarily located in twenty reception centres across the country in which they are provided with decent living conditions. On the other hand, we must not allow this hospitality to be misused and done to the harm of our citizens, as other countries do not allow. A joint problem between Serbia and Northern Macedonia seen in illegal migrant transports can be resolved by joint activities of the country's competent authorities, from data collection, channel removal and trafficking-related persons to criminal action. In line with everything I've said, I want to say in the end that the SPS parliamentary group will support this agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2977	I thank the People's MP Justini Pupin Koscal. The next is National MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2978	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Serbia is a country that has shown its ability to manage the crisis successfully. Today, when the pandemic of the corona virus is reality in the world, we can and must boast that Serbia is second in Europe by the number of vaccines at this time. It says it knows that it plans to think ahead, but it also has very good international relations that enable the safety of our citizens and the health of our citizens. I am glad that today is on the agenda of this agreement with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, because it has encouraged us to remember that Serbia has been one of the most successful countries in Europe in managing the migrant crisis since 2015 when Serbia has passed over a million migrants. Let us remind ourselves that, apart from being organized, it was humane and in this sense treated all who live in Serbia as much as the citizens of Serbia themselves, and it does today no matter who is the nationality. The bill to confirm an agreement ahead of us between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia is important because it speaks of improving co-operation to combat illegal migrations which are one of the key security challenges today. In addition, this agreement and co-operation is important because it applies to other areas, such as drug trafficking, arms trafficking, etc. That is why in Serbia today we feel safer and safer and more secure and peaceful. They say Serbia is ruled by crime. We see arrests. They say Serbia is ruled by bandits. We see arrests. They say Serbia is ruled by clans that are protected. We see arrests. But you know what else we see? We also see violent reactions to these arrests, we see fear, we see insults, we see a panic that reigns and gets caught in the bones. And that's what we see in this House. We were in a position yesterday, we were witnesses of hate sent to Minister Alexander Vulin in parliament. You know, it was amazing to me that a minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia could be compared to Goering. Do you know who Gerling was? We all know it was a war criminal. He was convicted of crimes against humanity. I really can't believe that yesterday we could listen, not five, but seven minutes, means extended time, in Albanian, without being able to hear the translation. The translation was still not delivered to me. More than 24 hours later, I didn't get a translation of what the fellow concerned was saying. He also said that failure has no alternative. Is this the parliament we want to have? Is this the parliament of a democratic country? And is this the parliament where we adopted the new code of conduct and why did we adopt it if we didn't follow it? What was said were terrible things and insults to the account of both President Alexander Vukic and Minister Alexander Vulin, but one truth was also told, which I mentioned just now, only in a different context. It has been said that failure has no alternative. It is a greater incentive for Minister Vulin and President Vukic to fight organised crime, it is an incentive to give a clear message that no individual and no criminal group can be protected and this is a clear message that crime in Serbia is just condemned to failure, namely that the failure of crime has no alternative. The words of hatred shown at the home of the National Assembly are only commendation for the work of Ministers Alexander Vulin and the MUP. I would like to congratulate the minister on everything he has done now, with the great and limitless support of President Vukic, who opposed one of the newly organised groups, one of the largest organised groups in the recent history that had such courage and courage and above all to congratulate him for repeatedly repeating today that this is not the end and that Serbia will continue to fight. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2979	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Ana Karadzic. Dear MPs, as regards yesterday's address by MP Shaip Kamberi in Albanian, firstly the National Assembly would have provided a translation into Serbian if he had announced it in time. There was simply no technical possibility, as the President of Parliament and the Secretary-General explained to you yesterday. Today, with an expedition, a translation into the Serbian language of yesterday's address by MP Shaip Kamberi was delivered, so that you can check among all parliamentary groups, so that you can check between your mail and the materials that we regularly receive. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2980	Article 27. - The chairman is obliged to take care of the work of the Assembly. It's one of the members who's been injured. There are many representatives of national minorities in the Serbian Parliament, and of course they have the right to speak or receive a translation into the language they serve, which they know well. Therefore, the duty of this home is that at any time the parliamentary session must be an adequate number of translators for languages spoken by members of national minorities. Therefore, do not insult the 107th dignity of this home and the failure that has apparently been made, it is clear to say that failure is and no longer allow such a thing to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2981	Thank you. I don't think I hurt Article 27. I didn't have sex with my colleague, I just made a note that I consider my duty to be the work of the National Assembly. It's your right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, only you haven't declared yourself willing to vote in the day of the National Assembly vote on this injury? (Jorge Komlenski: No. I thank you. We're moving on. Next on the list of speakers is MP Mr Slavenko Unkovic. Just to point out that the remaining time for your MP's group is four minutes and 25 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2982	The President-in-Office, respected ministers with co-workers, respected fellow MPs, today's law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the area of migrant smuggling was signed in December 2019. There was a mutual will that our two countries co-operate in this area in order to better organise and fight organised smuggling of migrants. The adoption of the law will establish a legal framework that would in a comprehensive way regulate all aspects of the coordination needed to implement our border services in order to control and monitor the borders of our two countries. The essence of the agreement is to improve international co-operation in order to prevent organised forms of smuggling as an identification and launch of criminal proceedings against criminals. This includes the exchange of information and relevant data relating to routes, information related to the way smuggling works, as well as the exchange of experiences. It is important for Serbia that the countries of the region join together on this issue, that we all find solutions to migration together, because the problem is still not resolved, and co-operation can only reduce potential risks. Insufficient co-operation among the Western Balkan countries in terms of information exchange and co-ordination with police actions has been the most appropriate for criminal structures so far. Serbia de facto tampon zone, simple migration cannot bypass us. It is clear that the Balkan route is not finished and that people are still coming from the south in a desire to reach Western European countries. All these years we have a strategy and predictions on how to fight these issues and we have shown in every way a high degree of concern and tolerance towards migrants in accordance with international regulations. We certainly have one of the best-organised reception and migration management systems confirmed by many European officials and European institutions. Although our two countries are not EU members, they are partners in the management of migration and part of the EU border control system. Our country is expecting a co-operation law with Frontesco soon, where members of this European agency will help us with our employees to control the borders as best as possible, as well as all migration. During the duration of the state of emergency due to the coronation of the virus, the border was controlled more rigorously, so the pressure on EU territory was reduced, but therefore the number of migrants in Serbia's reception camps was almost doubled. Most refugees and migrants see Serbia as a country of transit as well as data on the number of asylum applications submitted. At this moment, more than six thousand migrants are staying at 19 asylum reception centres in our country. No matter what people continue to cross the borders of our country, Serbia will have clear obligations to them in accordance with EU laws and human rights conventions. Serbia's stance is to support all migrants, to engage in the system, to regulate their status, and to allow them to enjoy the minimum of human rights. The problem is that their path to the EU is significantly difficult because of the well-known views of Hungary and Croatia, and so many are turning to smuggling and this job is practically booming. In Serbia, there has been a significant increase in migrant smuggling in the past two years, as well as increases in those arrested for these crimes. Therefore, such agreements are necessary for all countries of our region, as the crisis will certainly take years to come, and the Balkan route will continue to be very interesting. The European Commission's report for 2020 says Serbia is ready for further problems under the migrant crisis, that there are mechanisms in Serbia to prevent smuggling, that it has set up a voluntary return programme for foreigners, that implementation of the readmission agreement between the EU and Serbia is at a satisfactory level, that the Asylum Office is working at full capacity and Serbia will never allow us to be parking for migrants, but will not be part of the anti-immigrant hysteria and that kind of attitude towards these people will never be accepted. When it comes to the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Lesotto on co-operation in the field of defence, it is a partnership relationship with the desire to develop good relations on the principle of equality, reciprocity and common interests. The co-operation mainly concerns defence and security policies, as well as military economic co-operation. This will be conducted through participation in military exercises, training and education programmes and international conferences. Both these draft laws and agreements are in the interest of our country and the JS parliamentary group will support the day to vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2983	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2984	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before I say about the agreements, allow Mr. Minister Vulina to express my unwavering support to you and your ministry in the fight against organised crime. Mr. Minister, in particular, we provide unwavering support to the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, in this struggle, risking his life and his family's life. Mr. Vulin, I particularly convey the support of one part of the citizens, a large number that have come to me, to support President Vukic for the words spoken yesterday, quote: "As long as I am alive, I will fight the mafia and I will not let her bring down Serbia that has become a symbol of success and symbol of victory," finished the quote. Mr. Minister, once again, I express my support and support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the largest number of MPs in this high house. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will support these two agreements. Thank you to the Kingdom of Lesota for the withdrawn recognition of the false state of Kosovo. The state of Serbia will never, ever forget that. As for the second agreement with Northern Macedonia, let me say that exactly what you Mr. Minister said in the opening part that the crisis began in 2015 and that it did not stop and will not stop so easily. But you, Mr. Minister, have made a great contribution to what our country has really done among the best countries in Europe. Not only you, but also your predecessor, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic and the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons. As long as the great powers, you're right, Mr. Vulin, don't reach a position on migrants, the migrant crisis will exist, and in the opinion of scientists, we've been dealing with the migrant crisis and we've had several gatherings, this migrant crisis and not only the migrant crisis, you're right, but also the refugee has some characteristics that haven't had so far a migrant crisis since the Middle Ages to date. That's what science will say in the future. We are pleased, Mr. Minister, that you often say that Serbia will not be parking for migrants and that they cannot behave as they will and must respect the law. That's what you prove and prove every day. The problems announced by colleagues, or colleagues from the northern part of our country, are being put into one normal situation and I don't think there will be any major problems. It is true that there were no infections in the migrant camps of Kovid 19 and that is why we are the first in Europe. Is it true that the honourable Members of the People? Although it was from opposition benches, not in this congregation, but those who boycotted the assembly have a different opinion. That is why it is necessary to co-operate with us, dear Macedonia, that this agreement contributes to the treatment of the migrant crisis to the satisfaction of both states. Mr. Minister, speaking of this agreement on Northern Macedonia, let me say that Serbian media in 2019 wrote that Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas and Bosko Obradovic took several hundreds of thousands of euros from the "Reket" event, Bojan Jovanovicski, called Boki 13, through the adviser of Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia, Zoran Bashanovic for financing protests in Belgrade "1 out of 5 million". Fortunately for us, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have seen it very well and have given their judgment on it. Believe it or not, but the Djiki Mafia met with advisers Zoran Zajev, Zoran Bashanovic and Aleksandr Obradovic, underwear thieves, undergarments in Miami. If I didn't lie, here's the sign, it was full of press, where it's said -- they met in Macedonia with criminals, underpants thieves. You'll get a chill when you see what they're up to, and they're heading for the collapse of power and President Alexander Vukic over "One of the Five Million". Speaking of which, we have more recent statements, and I have made a vow to myself that I will try to respond to every Gilasov and Jeremic's statement and that indeed the citizens will be informed, truthfully, what is happening in our political life. Gilas has these days accused Alexander Vukic and the state of Serbia of neo-fascism, believe it or not, not only the state of Serbia and the president of the country, but even the EU and the United States. Why? Because they've been supporting President Vukic for eight years. But what matters is that Dragan Gilas has verticals of the Serbian state's accusations of fascism. That Dragan Djilas accused President Vukic and the state of Serbia, believe it or not, I quote: "As Serbia's support for Russia grew during Vucic," the quote concluded. What does this mean? It means that Gilas is against co-operation with our brotherly Russia. On 13 May 2008, the same Gilas accused President Vukic and the state of Serbia of being fascist and of being a fascist state. Gilas said, quotes: "The day we change this power we will create as another day of victory over fascism," finished the quote. Can you, Mr. President of the Assembly, believe this was said by Dragan Gilas? Gilas was on 2.12.2018, right after returning from the United States, where he agreed with certain circles to bring down the authorities in Serbia and Alexander Vukic, but not in the elections, but on the street, and today, these days, it announces that blood will fall as well. As soon as he arrived from the United States in 2.12.2018, he met with these unfortunate people from the Alliance for Serbia when he said, I quote, in this quote, the Honored President of the National Assembly, you will see who pulled the MPs from the Assembly and who wants to tear down the state, i.e. the government and the state street. I quote: "If we throw out the dialogue from the Serbian Parliament then as a society we have a problem," Gilas said and continues: "The assembly is the place where we talk, if we stop it, stop all the media they will explode somewhere. Who needs a parliament, give them some sense? “, ” finished the quote. Can you believe, people's MPs and respected citizens, that that's Dragan Gilas, and for Europe, Gilas, he said? As you can see, he is not interested in the elections, neither in this parliament nor in the citizens, but in coming to power with street and bloodshed, as he has announced these days, to steal 619m euros again. Dear ladies and gentlemen, by boycotting parliament and elections, Gilas has also boycotted parliamentary democracy because the boycott of the election is not a democratic act. Is it true, MPs? Of course it's true. By pushing parties into a boycott of the election, Gilas has killed the parties, and now he wants to move their leaders to remain on the opposition political scene alone. The same Gilas teamed up with Prime Minister Gligor and, behold, wonders, who built wineries, hotels, ergels throughout Herzegovina instead of building hospitals. According to Professor Vojislav Seselj, the bishop of Gligorija, I quote: "he is an immoral man, he has children," a quote concluded. I trust Professor Vojislav Seselj because I know he's a very well-informed man and I believe he didn't tell a lie. Gilas was best told by actor Sergey Trifunovic, my political opponent, who said, pay attention to this, quote: "Gilasu is the main weapon of money that solves everything and buys political favor. Gilas is urging Prime Minister Gligori to run for president of the Republic of Serbia in 2022, the Alliance for Serbia has never existed. What is it now, Janko Veselinović? Nothing. What are these others? What is Zeljko Veselinović from the Union? Nothing. They're being held by Gilas, who has his own flirting party, who comes in, makes money, they take two, three, well, well... Goes to Vladika Gligori. The agreement with the people is a difficult fiction, Jeremic is an untalented politician, and Djilas has ruined culture in Belgrade," the quote concluded. Here's what their lawyer really says about him. I think that Sergei Trifunovic, with whom I really have nothing in political terms in common, told the truth. Gilas keeps trying to fight us with the Chinese, the steel brothers. So in 17.8.2020, Gilas said, quotes: “will we receive a Chinese vaccine that no one else in Europe will receive? “, ” finished the quote. You see, honourable citizens, what does this opposition leader of 619 million pronounce? He said he didn't want any Russian, so he went first to take it. Gilas, on the day that Serbia, believe it or not, as the third largest country in Europe after the UK and Switzerland, began the vaccination of its population, sent a letter in Brussels complaining that there was no reliable data in Serbia on when and by what vaccine the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would be vaccinated, which was a notorous lie. Gilas has a problem with me remembering every sentence, so Gilas sent a letter to the European Commission this time accusing Serbia, so the state of Serbia did not become part of the Kovaks mechanism. At the moment, respected citizens, when we and Kovaks agreed, we paid an advance to get the vaccine. There, so muddy Dragan Gilas treats his country, so treats the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And look at the miracles, before this, Gilas sued Serbia and Alexander Vukic, you will not believe, thanks to the People's Republic of China for the aid that the Chinese steel brothers sent to the Republic of Serbia during the first attack of the Coron virus. Can you believe this man does that? All of this, the Honorable President, what Gilas is doing and his associates are called, the disgrace of our country of Serbia. That's what Gilas does all the time. It's called working against its people and citizens of the Serbian state. Gilasa is only interested in money as Sergey Trifunovic says he would again come to power and make the citizens of the Republic of Serbia hungry for the new 619m, and before coming to power, he was usually naked. Gilas and his brother did not reach accession talks for a decade, but that's why Gilas's companies were found for 619 million. Dear President, I must tell you that Vuk Jeremic on February 1st, so back nine, ten days ago in 2021 accused President Vukic of making promises to President Makron the chair so-called. Kosovo to the UN, which told a notorious lie without shame, without a hint of morality. I have to do the truth and do the reputation of this high house to really keep your attention in a few minutes. It is this Vuk Jeremic who is constantly working for the Shipars and for the surrender of Kosovo and Metohija to the Shiptars. Arguments: Since his arrival at the head of Serbian diplomacy, Jeremic has been constantly working to transfer the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija from the UN to the EU and thus bring the Eulex mission to Kosovo and put a knife in the back of his own country. True, respected citizens, when Kosovo's unilateral independence was illegally declared in 2008, that Jeremic did not take any effective measures against Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence, although I underline, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has declared this unilateral declaration unconstitutional. He kept his mouth shut. Furthermore, on the recognition of Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence by the Islamic Conference, Jeremic, believe it or not, referred only to it -- an expression of disappointment, a finished quote, to the Islamic Conference secretary. Do you believe, President of the Assembly, you were the foreign minister, that this was done by our former minister, Vuk Jeremic? Jeremic called Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence a precedent before the OSCE and appealed to the OSCE calling for Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, instead of then calling for a 1975 final document from Helsinki, which explicitly found that Serbia's provinces do not have the right to gain independence. He didn't mean to call. Jeremic then failed to request an urgent UN Security Council meeting over a violation of the UN Charter. Can you believe he didn't ask for that? He deliberately gave up funds to protect our country's sovereignty and territorial integrity. The same Vuk Jeremic deliberately kicked out of the motion for a resolution, which demanded the opinion of the International Court of Justice, quote and underline - that unilateral secession could not be an acceptable way to resolve territorial issues. It's a finished quote. Instead, he put in a position, I quote -- that Pristina's decision that a unilateral solution to declared independence in accordance with international law was completed, and thus put a knife into the heart of its own state. That Jeremic worked for Pristina, was confirmed these days by a prominent American magazine, Mr. National Assembly President, which is a magazine for international relations, called The National Interest, which says Jeremic made the biggest mistake in 2008, which led to Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence as a separatist act. He didn't want to do it. That's why every year, either believe it or not, and those of us down there who are more often know it very well, and you could see through their television and other means, that each year on 27 October they celebrate as one of the biggest dates of the so-called state of Kosovo. On that very day, Pristina received a legal argument to push its so-called independence to the end. The Cypriot leadership in Pristina celebrates Vuk Jeremic every October 27th and views him as the creator of the most significant paper in the hands of so-called Kosovo independence. Furthermore, Jeremic accused the state of Serbia and its president of spreading stability to the Balkans in the copyright for the French daily "Mond", July 17, 2018, on the day the President of the Republic visited France. Thus, respected MPs and respected citizens, French President Makron could read on the day of his meeting with Aleksandar Vukic the worst charges against the account of the state of Serbia and its president by Vuk Jeremic. Jeremic insulted Serbia and its president, Vukic, most brutally in the authoritarian text at the "Washington Post", ahead of his meeting with the US Vice President, Mike Pens. The citizens were shocked by the unpatriot approach of Vuk Jeremic. In December 2008, Jeremic said in a conversation, believe it or not, with US congressman Teo Dolo, that Kosovo and Metohija's entry into the UN is the best that Serbia can hope for if it is lucky. It's a finished quote. Here you can see who's a traitor to the state. Here you can see who is tearing our country's territorial integrity. You will never hear it from Alexander Vukic, although Jeremic transfers the ball to the other side. Jeremic, in a conversation with Rocen, adviser to Milo Djukanovic, said, quote: "J... . I am the mother of Serbia," at a time when he was a adviser to Boris Tadic. From this point on, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mr Dacic, Mr Vulina and the People's MPs, it is evident that Vuk Jeremic is a great pest for our country. It is a traitorous bastard who is to be dealt with by the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia for the economic and political subjugation of our country and the destruction of territorial integrity and sovereignty. In the end, Vuk Jeremic knows, and Serbian citizens know very well that Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic is a major Serbian reformer, an engine for the accelerated modernisation of our country, a great Serb patriot, a great Serbian statesman, a great Serbian builder and defender of Serbia's citizens and state. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2985	Thank you, Professor. I would just ask you to emulate your discussion with the code we've brought in, because, whether you quote someone or not, you can't use curses or any other offensive words. That's what I'm saying because of the integrity of the congregation, the integrity and what we tried to do when we passed the code. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2986	Dear President of the National Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected representatives of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, at the beginning I would like to express my respect for the action of the state summit in the fight against organised crime, means to the president of the state, the Prime Minister and the resolution ministers. I want to point out the people who are working directly on it, the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior. What makes me particularly happy, yesterday in the discussion I pointed out, is that we began to detect rotten apples within the system, police officers who co-operate with organised crime, prosecutors who release these criminals and medical staff who give them justification. I want to go back to the dialogue that the minister and I had during one of the previous sessions. I want to commend your arrival in Novi Pazar. I think that it has essentially contributed to stabilising opportunities and that we have overcome the challenges that we have faced in the field, but that in fact it has proved the essence and truth of the claims that we represent at the time, that the moment we end political protection for violent people and when we break that sedition between local authorities and criminals, they will not have that passion that they showed at the time. I'd like to remind you that a few days ago, there was an attack on a civil activist in broad daylight. We can't go over things like that lightly. I hope now that we have stabilised opportunities, through constructive dialogue, we will essentially solve problems, so that the responsible people, who are without a career, will come to the executive post and when it comes to the regional police administration in Novi Pazar and when it comes to the regional police administration in Prijepolje, where a new chief should come. It's very important who the chief of police will be, because of the character of this man, who must be a top professional and diplomat, to understand opportunities on the ground, depends on our determination to deal with crime and corruption. As for the Agreement with the Kingdom of Lesotto, the Justice and Reconciliation Party and our MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party will vote. Each country is very important, especially if it has a chair in the UN, and we all know how important it is for us to have the support of countries in the UN General Assembly. African countries, fellow predecessors have spoken, are our chance. Whatever you think about SFRY and the president at the time, we must all agree that the diplomacy they led was at the highest level, not only the balance between the two blocs then, but also the policy towards the countries, what we would call the "third world", primarily the African, Asian, Muslim countries, they are our developmental chances, when we talk about the placement of finished products, when we talk about our companies that are traditionally present. But when it comes to the dedicated industry, when it comes to building operations, we are on that market recognized as quality, as accurate, as responsible, and cannot be allowed to be taken over by other companies. With that in mind, I absolutely welcome every kind of co-operation, including this agreement. As far as the agreement with the Government of Northern Macedonia is concerned, it is clear that we have passed an absolute exam in the context of the 2015 migrant crisis until today. Many countries, and EU members, have indeed failed the test. This is a very important segment regarding respect for human rights. The law absolutely must apply to everyone, both our citizens and those who are refugees and those who are migrants, there is absolutely no dilemma there. But what I want to point out is that when we have a framework convention on human rights, we as a state absolutely passed the exam. Therefore, we must be self-critical in order to be better. But those from the EU, from the international community, who want to salt our minds, must first look at what some countries in the neighbourhood are doing when it comes to migrants. We had a situation that the Croatian police did not allow Europarliamentaries to cross the border between Croatia and Bosnia. And now, you might think it's someone here, and we talk very often about this situation and the behaviour of the Europarliamentaries, if someone had done something like that to them here, if he hadn't let them, what would have happened. So we have to be very realistic here, and when it comes to our contribution and what we do well, and we certainly passed the exam here and we should congratulate ourselves, but we certainly expect it from the international public. What I want to point out is that our government is leading a policy of reconciliation, and to that end, mini Shengen is also very important to us. I call on all Western Balkan countries, this challenge with the migrant crisis and the fight against Kovida-19, that we must perform together, I call on all countries, I call on the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina to join the Mini Schengen initiative. In voting day, we will support both agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2987	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2988	I'm thanking you. When it comes to the EU's single policy towards the migrant crisis, it, as you know, does not exist and that is the main problem, an almost unsecured problem in the fight against the consequences of the migrant crisis. In 2015, I was in a delegation that went to talk to Europeans, to warn them that a migrant crisis exists, that the Balkan crisis exists, that it is not just a road across the sea. It wasn't easy for us to convince them then. They realized, unfortunately, a little later than they should, but we have already suggested that the EU must take a single policy in the first place, to say what it wants with these people. If these people need them because of their labour force, let them say so and set up appropriate criteria. We have suggested that in the countries of origin, where migrants come from, appropriate centres will be established where the triage of those who have the right to asylum, those they would receive or who would not receive. Once you leave your country, you fall into the hands of smugglers, you never come back. That's it. This was a way to effectively stop uncontrollable migration. Unfortunately, they disobeyed us, they had their reasons, and that is, of course, their right. But in 2015, most of the world expected, I can't say with good intentions, that real conflicts with migrants will take place on our country's territory, because of the times we've been through, due to the experience of wars, conflicts. It was expected that Serbia would be the one where migrants will be almost welcomed with violence and that we will not be able to organise and manage the migrant crisis effectively. About a million people passed through our country in 2015, haven't broken a single glass. About a million people. And we had conflicts with migrants both in Greece and Macedonia and afterwards, when they were heading towards Western Europe. The answer is why – because we were organized as a state, human as a state, we had clear rules that we followed and we treated them as human beings, with dignity, respecting their faith, customs, the right to exist. And that's why you've never had a conflict with migrants on our country's territory. Of course, anyone who breaks the law, if it's someone who's robbed some cultural center in some place or committed any crime or offence, it's going to be sanctioned and it's done. Our police, as you know, are going out on the street, all the irregular migrants who are out of our camps being carried out into our camps, according to some of them applying the laws that have broken it, to others is simply due attention. So we will continue with this very policy – human, but organized. There is no uncontrollable movement, no permitting criminal acts, no burden of crisis on our neighbours, we simply strictly respect the law. This is a serious, orderly and organised state, and it is the only way to deal with the consequences of the migrant crisis. It's not too big in our country, which is good, but that there are six, and not six thousand laws apply to six as well as six thousand, and all of our citizens have to be sure that their country protects them and, of course, it will protect them. When it comes to the latest developments in Novi Pazar, I want to thank all the citizens of Novi Pazar and most of the politicians in Novi Pazar who came without prejudice to what the Ministry of Interior did in Novi Pazar, accepted, saw and understood that everything we did was done for the citizens of New Pazar. The situation is now, I'm free to say, under control. After 54 days, members of the gendarme units have retired from the New Market, now it's all at the New Market Police Department, because it's not the thing that we keep sending some units. The New Market Police Administration must be able to guarantee respect for public order and peace and law enforcement in the territory of Novi Pazar, it's her job. Whoever can't do this won't be in the Police Department anymore, they won't be in the police anymore, they won't be head of that administration, and that's clear. The Republic of Serbia has provided assistance in the last 54 days. In those 54 days, we took away a significant amount of weapons, narcotics, vehicles, we arrested a significant number of people on various warrants, closed down all the joints, as you know, there was no protection. All, regardless of their political power or position, the one who kept the place that didn't work according to the rules has been closed, even the individual facilities are shut down because of the promotion of prostitution. So, all that was negative was that we were dealing with it and there was not a single objection from the citizens. We didn't get any single remarks. The sad incident that happened in front of Sinan's mosque is something that hit every member of the Interior Ministry deeply, I personally apologize here and now and this member, as you know, is immediately suspended, it can't be a system. It will never have support in the interior ministry, besides in our state of Serbia. I look forward to continuing co-operation, looking forward to the peace and security of the citizens of Novi Pazar, soon to visit Novi Pazar, I look forward to being able to see on the spot what everything looks like and what we have done, and that we are all sure that in every part of our territory, Serbia will unspeakably enforce the law and protect every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2989	Thank you. What Minister Vulin just said earlier, many expected that we would face migrants, and I would just remind you that we in our history very often defended Europe, among other things, from the Ottoman Empire, so those we defended eventually recognized the results of the ethnic cleansing of the Ottoman Empire right in Kosovo. So let's get through this without us. As far as the next order is concerned, MP Samir Tandir came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2990	I want to thank you for your reply to the Minister. I didn't even mention this incident at Sinan-beog's mosque, because the police ministry, indeed, acted responsibly and representatives of the Islamic community, also, did not allow any politics, although there were attempts from various sides. As far as migrants are concerned, I made it clear in the first part of my speech. So, the state of Serbia, our government, our country's authorities passed the exam. We cannot say that about the European Union and I want to point out that as a citizen of this country. So when you tell us some things, I think you should look in the mirror first. All that we need to do from European standards, we are committed to integration and Eurointegration, implementation of essential democracy, however, here is something that we absolutely have to give recognition to. As for clear discipline, respect for the law, this clearly applies to everything. Also, what I pointed out, we have a good situation in Novi Pazar, but what I think, Minister, that it is very important, is that through dialogue we work to bring responsible, professional, young people and to pay attention to the percentage of representation that citizens and citizens living in that area all assume responsibility for the stability of that space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2991	Thank you. I don't know if we said, I don't think we did, that Lesotto voted against Kosovo's admission to Interpol and that was the result of that policy, because they were in the previous round, so to speak, when UNESCO was on the agenda, on the other side. So, just in addition to what we talked about these new relationships we built. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2992	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Ministers Vulin with associates, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we are today in the House of National Assembly discussing an important agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking, with which we will confirm two key things and two objectives that affect the benefit of our country's citizens. We will establish more intensive co-operation in the area of combating migrant smuggling, but we will also ensure a greater level of security for all our citizens, meaning to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today, the world faces numerous traditional challenges, threats and risks, from active crisis hotspots in the Middle East and North Africa, but I would say, to those new asymmetric challenges on which it is not immune throughout the XXI century. Irregular migration is one of the key security risks, in addition to cyber crime, terrorist attacks, the emergence of new viruses and other security challenges of the newer era. Serbia is not an isolated island and is not immune to numerous security challenges and risks. During the migrant crisis, I would say about this, several of my colleagues pointed to this today, along with Minister Vulin and closest associates, I agree that Serbia treated migrants in one dignified and humane way during 2015 when it was the largest migration wave in our country. It is a western-Balkan route, a land route where more than a million people have passed according to various data, but I would say that we did not lose that trend during 2020, when Serbia in one responsible way and during the pandemic of the Coronal virus treated migrants in its territory, providing them with the necessary health care, psychological and social support and accommodation. The inflow of asylum seekers and migrants reached its peak, just in 2015, when the Western-Balkan migration route became one of the main routes for the entry of migrants into the European Union. According to official data and estimates of socio-economic impact published by the International Organisation for Migration of the United Nations, the official number of registered migrants was 579,518 persons, migrants who passed through our country. This number, these regular migrants, was 30 times higher compared to the previous year, that year in 2014. By closing the Western-Balkan route in March 2016, the number of asylum seekers dropped significantly to 12,800 in 2016, while in 2019 it was about 12,000 people who expressed their intention to seek asylum. It should also be noted that the total number of migrants, including illegal migrants registered in migrant centres and who passed through the centre over the previous few years, was significantly higher. During the Coronal Virus pandemic, I would say that our country's response to the pandemic of the Coronal virus was indeed adequate, fast and effective and when it comes to caring for all our citizens through various packages of financial measures, where we wanted to help our citizens, not only financially, but also to provide all necessary health care. We also wanted to achieve an equal, or parallel with it, and to fight for the preservation of all jobs and to help in different ways and our economy. I would say that we also treated migrants with care and care, providing them with open access to health care without discrimination. We have provided access to information on the covid centres, providing them with different ways of respecting asylum procedures, but how to integrate migrants in our territory and to provide them with all the necessary conditions for education, accommodation, social protection and for providing free legal assistance. All of this is aimed at sustainable development and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in the work concerning... I would say, in dealing with migrants, Serbia has in no way violated one international standard, one standard of international law, even before the appearance of 2015, indeed through the process of European integration, we have harmonised a lot of regulations and brought them into line with the European Union itself, but also with the Council of Europe and we have applied a number of OSCE recommendations to our legislative system. I also want to say that by supporting all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also to all citizens who live in the territory of our country, we have indeed taken care of the security of our borders. We wanted in no way to forget and protect the interests of our national security. I would say that many governments have faced a pandemic around the world, just using these new tools, new programming tools to manage migration, to prevent further spread of the disease. In Serbia, the impact of Kovid 19 on migration and mobility in Serbia, an international organisation for migration within the UN organisation, reported four positive cases tested on Kovid 19, in the refugee population and migrants since the start of the virus pandemic. They've really recovered successfully now, fortunately. These are data that are an integral part of the UNHCR report that was published and published in August of last year, 2020. The interior ministry also treated migrants in one responsible way. During the emergency situation, the MUP wanted to help this population, the people who are in our country, prepared multilingual brochures in the languages of migrants with useful information on access to healthcare centres, psychological support, movement restrictions and health prevention measures through various posters, flyers, and phones where migrants could contact the competent services were also made a good campaign through social networks. I would say that the migrant accommodation centres are also equipped with all the necessary equipment and masks and gloves, but also with hygiene packages and products and were all part of a good response, i.e. the country's rapid reaction to prevention and prevention of further expansion of Kovid-19 and in the asylum, migrants and refugees population in the Republic of Serbia. I would say that, by adopting this Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia, in addition to this universal protection system which is being viewed in the Convention and the UN organisation against Transnational Organized Crime of 2020 and the Additional Protocol on the Prevention and Control of Trade in Human beings, especially women and children, there are three more regional protection systems, the American and African and European. Our country as an EU accession country aims to implement all those European regional protection standards when it comes to the protection of freedom and human rights throughout our territory and are precisely three regional organisations recognised, which are the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation in Europe, the Council of Europe and the EU. Serbia, I would say, is really making a lot of progress, which is witnessed by the degree of compliance in Chapter 24, when it comes to implementing all those European standards, directives, but also by harmonising regulations with EU rules. All this has been done to protect our citizens, but also to protect those rights of people who live in our territory, and migrants, and children, and women and foreigners who are temporarily staying in our country. The main reason why it is important for us to adopt this agreement today in the voting day is because and how we have thought about the security of our citizens and the basic objective of this Agreement is the protection and security of our citizens and the increase of that security in the years ahead. I would say bilateral relations between Belgrade and Skopje have changed in decades behind us, but now Belgrade and Skopje have very intense co-operation and good relations, which are primarily based on mutual trust and respect and that political dialogue is focused on bilateral issues, but also on strengthening regional co-operation. It is this regional co-operation that takes place through the Mini Schengen initiative, whose main initiator and driver is the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, and that the promoters of the "Mini Schengen" in the Western Balkans are Serbia and Albania, but that Northern Macedonia is also a significant partner. In addition to economic relations that make up the backbone of bilateral relations, both economic relations are very important and interconnecting them through the construction of key infrastructure projects. These projects were in the previous term of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's government, and they would say they continue today in the first 100 days of the government. These economic capital projects relating to the consolidation of our two countries' economic relations are based on the projects of the completion of Corridor 10, the construction of the Budapest railway – Belgrade – Skopje, reconstruction and modernisation of the Belgrade-Niš, Nis – Presevo section, up to the border with Northern Macedonia. I would like to remind all citizens and all the MPs that in 2016 the Nis-Stip power line was realized, a length of 70 kilometers. Also, an integrated Presevo-Tabanovci crossing was built in the previous period, which has greatly contributed to increasing the speed of the flow of goods, people, services and capital. It is about four freedoms on which the EU's single market is based. All these projects, as I said, are the results of the previous Prime Minister Ana Brnabic government, but also of President Aleksandr Vukic. In the first 100 days of the government, the new government marked a continuation in the successful fight against the coronary virus. We have indeed recorded excellent results and in the purchase of vaccines, the construction of new covid hospitals, and the acquisition of all necessary equipment in order to provide adequate health care to all our citizens. I would say that any family that faced or had a sick member of their family infected with the coronary virus could indeed confirm how much the Republic of Serbia was and how tough and resistant its health system was during several pandemic waves. We didn't miss any medical equipment. We have worked really hard as the Government of the Republic of Serbia to provide all our citizens with the necessary health care. There was no shortage of oxygen, no respirator, no medications, but I would say that, parallel to this struggle to preserve the health and life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the struggle for the preservation of jobs and the recovery of our economy has been under way. I would say that Serbia today is a topic of the world's media and that a good example is the country's leader by the number of vaccinated citizens and by successfully organised immunisation. I am really proud of our country in terms of the vaccination and immunisation of our population, because it has really acted in a very serious and dedicated way, taking care of the economy, recording really great results and the greatest growth in 2020. I hope this trend continues in the year 2021. Also, I want to say that yesterday we were pleased with the information of President Vukic who, I would say, is the most responsible why Serbia has such good news that many world media have written about when it comes to the number of people vaccinated and the number of vaccines obtained, but also how well we have organised the entire process of immunisation in our country and the purchase of both doses of one of the three vaccines currently available to our citizens. Yesterday, we were pleased to learn that the vaccine has enough for all of our citizens, that another 500,000 doses of Chinese vaccine are coming, that by the end of February, the phaser will deliver 80,000 doses. Yesterday, 50 doses of the first dose of the Russian vaccine Sputnik V arrived, and another 50,000 doses of this Russian vaccine are expected in the next two weeks. This testifies and confirms that when one serious and responsible approach to this problem is made and, I would say, for 24 hours really shows concern and attention about every citizen of our country, this will eventually lead to the return of citizens' confidence in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and in the policy of the president of the Republic of Serbia, whose mandate we have also received trust here as people's MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party. It also encourages the news that by the end of the year, our country will start producing a Russian vaccine, that our Institute "Torak" will co-operate with our Russian partners and that by the end of the year Sputnik V vaccine will be produced in our country. Today, Serbia is an example of other countries and far richer countries than Serbia, many EU member states, which compare with us, who are also talking to us for help or copying our experience when it comes to fighting the pandemic of the coronary virus, but also when it comes to recording these great results in the area of the economy. The credit for this belongs certainly to the government of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the president of our country, Mr. Alexander Vukic. I would say, and that's some general conclusion that makes us think that during the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, it was very important to show that our system is resistant, that we will not give up at any time and that we are really trying to preserve the health and lives of all the people in our country. From the migration crisis on Europe's soil and in 2015 when this greatest wave of migrant crisis, through cyber attacks on infrastructure facilities and various hybrid attacks, to the pandemic of the coronary virus, which in serious proportions continues to endanger the lives and health of people and which is directly reflected in our security sector are topics which we as a state and as MPs, members of numerous committees and delegations will deal with in the coming months and years ahead. This is why today is more than ever more important to establish and understand why it is important to establish co-operation and solidarity with others, because today the character of these traditional challenges, threats and risks clearly shows that we cannot solve security problems on our own, but we can solve them exclusively in collaboration with others, only in collaboration with other international entities, with other international organisations, with Europol, with Interpol and with Frontex. A colleague, Unkovic, mentioned the agreement with Frontex in his presentation. I would like to inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that on 27 March 2020, the EU Council adopted a Decision on the conclusion of an agreement with the European Border and Coast Guard Agency - Frontex and with the countries of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro to prevent and prevent irregular migration. Last year's report on Serbia's progress in the EU accession process, brought by the European Commission for 2020 and which we discussed for the first time, also says in a positive way, is an example of how Serbia referred in Chapter 24 to legal and irregular migration, but through the formation and strengthening of capacity of different institutional structures during 2019, as well as strengthening the criminal police administration. With that, Minister, we can't stop, we must continue in the future. On the basis of all this, I call on all my fellow Members of Parliament to support the adoption and signing of such an important agreement in the day of voting. It is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on preventing migrant smuggling and human trafficking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2993	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2994	Thank you. Dearly-respected fellow Members of Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing today a set of very important and constructive draft laws and agreements, and I would personally refer to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating migrant smuggling. To be precise, according to the December 2020 Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, there are 6,015 migrants in 19 reception centres and asylum centres in Serbia's territory, of which 660 children. Most of the migrants and refugees in Serbia come from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Syria and Bangladesh. Only 984 migrants have expressed their intention to seek asylum. I repeat, expressed intent, which doesn't mean it did. This data tells us that the majority of migrants, located on Serbia's soil, still see Serbia as a transit country. What is worrying, which is certainly a risk to the safety of our citizens, is precisely those migrants who are moving outside the control of the centres and reception camps and, of course, those who entered our country illegally, that is, through a branch of organised crime called migrant smuggling. The bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the area of combating migrant smuggling aims to clearly define co-operation in the area of combating migrant smuggling and that co-operation with Northern Macedonia, as the majority of migrants enter Serbia right from the north of Macedonia. I must also point out this occasion that Serbia as a responsible state has significantly improved the capacities of our border police, which in the people, through the purchase of drones, thermal cameras and other equipment. So, thanks to the responsible policy of our president and our government, Serbia is able to fully protect our state borders. Moreover, in order to protect against the entry of illegal migrants, a number of Serbian police officers have been sent to the border of Northern Macedonia and Greece to help prevent migrants from crossing this border illegally and then teaching, among other things, to Serbia. The proposal for an agreement brings very important forms of co-operation with Northern Macedonia, which are reflected in the exchange of information and data, the formation of joint teams, the implementation of joint projects, as well as education of persons directly involved in the fight against migrant smuggling. Of course, all in order to strengthen capacity to combat migrant smuggling. Serbia is not, nor will it be a parking lot for migrants, as some quasi politicians say, and just above the data speak of it. Serbia is one of the few countries in the region, but wider, which has shown a human approach to people who have temporarily found themselves in the territory, either by running away from war-steels or poverty, thus giving a lesson to many European democracies. Serbia has invested in border police, military and other security services, so as a responsible state, it is ready to protect its interests, safeguard the security of our citizens if there is a more significant new migration wave. It is an important agreement for Serbia, because it aims to preserve the security of our country and our citizens, and through the fight against organised crime, i.e. illegal smuggling of migrants, that is why I personally, and hopefully my colleagues, will support and vote for this, as well as other proposals, in hopes that they will support the fight for strong and modern Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2995	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2996	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, unlike most EU countries, Serbia has shown that it is organised and human in terms of migrants. More than a million people have gone through our country to be cared for, fed and controlled above all else. Migrants in our country have the opportunity to be in reception centers and are provided with medical and any other protection. Serbia has always treated migrants with dignity and respect for human, national, religious rights of all, not only migrants, but it is very important that at the time of the pandemic, migrants cannot leave the camps, because they pose a threat to themselves and to others, and all of this means disrespect for the laws of the Republic of Serbia. No one can break the law without being punished for it and not encountering a proper response from the state. No migrants can be out of our camps without proper permission. Always, especially at the time of the pigs, we must safeguard their health and safeguard the health of our nation. Many humanitarian organisations are involved, and I really thank you for that, because the great burden has fallen on our country, because we have not earned any migration. However, our geostrategic position has always been a gift and a condemnation. I would highlight the humanitarian foundation of the SPC "Humanity", which was founded in 1991, in response to the humanitarian needs of the population, but not only of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but of all those who could make them leave their country, i.e. to help those who needed it, regardless of their racial, full, national or religious commitment. You can't say that all countries have that kind of relationship. We are bordering with EU countries, on several sides, and we see that they do not have the same attitude as we do. The worse their attitude is, the more pressure we put on our country. In the hall of the International Red Cross building in Geneva, a board with the inscription "Be human, like human Serbia in 1885". What the Serbian army did no longer happened in the history of wars. Bulgaria at the time violated the Berlin Agreement, as it set out to expand on Balkan and King Milan's territory, following failed negotiations it declared war on the country. At the time, Serbia had already had arranged hospitals and a Red Cross, but this was not the case with Bulgarians now in the EU, and their wounded had no one to take care of and provide medical assistance. The International Red Cross has collected assistance from all over Europe, which was to be delivered to this country. Ironically, the only way to Bulgaria was through Serbia, and then something happened that the world has never seen. Serbia's military command ended the war for one day, opened the front line and missed medical transportation across its territory. The International Red Cross has added drugs, blankets, beds, and supplies to the Bulgarian soldiers everything is necessary for the opening of a hospital. A similar event before or after 1885 has not been recorded anywhere. Serbia has helped the country with which it was at that time at war. It doesn't matter to people in border areas when a camp for migrants is formed and it's completely understandable. We know of several unsavourable events, from fighting, through fires, and so forth. A group under the slogan "Banja yes, asylum no" was formed in Mladenov because it was time to say that another migration centre would be formed in the centre of Šumadija. I'm absolutely against it, because we can't destroy our economy. Mladenovac is the only Belgrade spa, which is the Selters spa that most patients come to because of the treatment of rheumatol diseases, but we intend to expand commercial capacities. That compared to the establishment of an asylum center doesn't work at all. Serbia is not a big country, but it always shows that it has a big heart for people in need, but it must not do so against its own interests. However, order must be known and we must not endanger our security. It is therefore very important that this Agreement with Northern Macedonia on Co-operation in the area of migrant smuggling, as the most migrants come from there. This Agreement implies the exchange of data and information and enables the establishment of investigative teams, joint training and workshops. If other countries raise fences and just pass on migrants, we must protect ourselves. If the importance of this agreement is and we must regionally connect, because we are not responsible for the wars in their countries and we are not the ultimate destination of migrants. Since 2015, a great deal of time has passed if they had willed, they would have found a way to stop migration. Once again, I welcome this agreement and the more countries in the region connect, the easier it will be to get in the way of migration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2997	I thank the MP Natasa Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2998	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers and the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, of course I support these two agreements that are here today before us. My colleagues from PG Aleksandar Vukic said a lot about the agreements – for our children, but what I would like to point out is the Agreement on Cooperation in the area of defence with the State of Lesota. It's a very good deal and Lesotto deserved it. Lesotto proved himself to be a friend of Serbia on two occasions, the first time he withdrew recognition so-called. The non-existent "states of Kosovo" and the second time when he voted against the admission of the same fictional state of Kosovo in Interpol. As regards the Agreement between Serbia and Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the area of suppression, i.e. The fight against migrant smuggling, you know what, the migrant crisis is one of the major European problems, and that's something we're fighting and that we're going to fight in the next period, and I believe that your MUP in co-operation with other parts of the Serbian government is making the most of it to combat migrant smuggling as far as the Western Balkans and the Republic of Serbia are concerned. What I would especially like to point out is, in addition to all the great results that the Republic of Serbia, the government of Serbia, Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, our president, does, and as far as the economy is concerned, and as for the fight against the crown of the virus is also a major fight against the mafia. As for the fight against the crown of the virus, I would first like to share with you a beautiful picture this morning from Beijing, when about half a million vaccines are being loaded into the Air Serbia plane and we expect these vaccines to come to Belgrade by the end of the evening to Serbia. In this way, Serbia will provide two million vaccines by the end of February, saying only the seriousness of the state in the fight against the crown of the virus, and therefore we are at the top of both Europe and the world. But in order for Serbia to be able to record results in the area of the economy, Serbia would have financial resources to obtain and vaccines when we have such a difficult fight against the serious virus, the corona virus, and that Serbia could allow itself to lobby against the recognition of Kosovo and the reception of the so-called. The "states of Kosovo" in Interpol and in order to be able to have good relations with countries and sign all these agreements, we should first and foremost deal with the mafia. All what President Aleksandar Vukic announced more than a hundred days ago, as he strongly announced, we already have energetic results. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate the president, Alexander Vukic, on the results in the fight against the mafia. Minister Vulin, I'd like to congratulate you, your associates. I would like to congratulate all the honest people in the MUP, BIA and the D.A., who have all recognised together the importance of fighting the mafia, but have also recognised the importance of the criminal clan's strength against you, against us, against all those who want an honest orderly and good Serbia. I hope so, and that's what you announced, and that's what the president announced, and we expect new results in the fight against the mafia. We expect that you, ministers, along with your associates and with the security services, will carry out other actions as you have announced, will not be protected. Whether they are in sport, politics, the former regime, whether they are in the economy, among the police, I know that no one will be protected from them, which shows both the latest arrests and members of the MUP as regards the fight against the mafia. This picture of all these arrests shows a picture of Serbia, showing a picture of Serbia fighting the mafia. Once, not so long ago, during the former regime that both Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic and their associates, we had another picture. We had a picture of one, especially in Belgrade, that we had the rule of the Zemun, Surcin, Novobeograd, the star clan, especially the Zemun clan. We had a situation that Belgrade was not recognised by the investments, according to Beogad on Water, but we had a situation that the ends of the Serbian capital, the Serbian capital, were divided by criminal clans during the former regime. We had a situation that the Zemun clan ruled, the maltenes, the state. We had a situation that the Zemun clan had its people in all structures, in all the state structures of the Republic of Serbia. That's what this clan, the Greater Trouble clan, tried to do, as they call it, and his associates. But the state replied, both the MUP, the BIA and the D.A., and everyone who cooperated with them. With this move we told the mob stop and I hope the state will continue this arrest in the next period, because you know what? And with this arrest and some other arrests that we expect it to be, we show that we are not only the most serious state in terms of economic development and the fight against the crown of the virus, but we show that we will be the first in Europe and as regards the results in the fight and against organised crime and corruption, that is, as far as the results are concerned against all forms of the mafia. So, Minister, President Vukic, go ahead in this fight and I hope that in the coming period we will also be witnesses of no new arrests, because you know how, the mafia will probably respond and the mafia is responding in the previous period in its own way, but we have a situation that is not only these members of the criminal clans who want it, it's ugly to say, the death of the president of our country, which is confirmed by the criminal Caba Der, who was offered two criminal clans of great money to liquidate our president and leader Alexander Vukic. Anyway, we have a situation that, besides these mob clans and former regime members, they want evil and President Alexander Vukic and his associates. Then the situation occurred that we had a situation this morning that a certain M.Z., 42 years old, called the central SNS and threatened to kill President Aleksandr Vukic and his son Daniel and Belgrade Mayor Goran Vesic. On this occasion, I'd like to congratulate the police on their quick action. That 40-year-old M.Z. He's under arrest. He's charged with endangering security. I hope it's the same as this 40-year-old M.Z. All those who threaten and threatened Alexander Vukic and his family and our president's closest associates will be arrested. This morning's action to arrest M.Z. and the arrest of 19 members of the Velimir Belivuk criminal clan, the Greater Trouble called, and his associates and all the arrests and these police officers these days only show that the state of Serbia is responsible for the state and that led by Alexander Vukic said one great no to the mafia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u2999	I thank the Messenger of the people. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3000	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, the region we share with our neighbours, is full of turbulence. There are a number of security challenges that we face that exceed our own frameworks and so do other states. I will list just some - terrorism and extremism, organised crime, cyber threats, illegal migration, human trafficking, economic uncertainty and others. These are challenges that require strengthening mutual trust and co-operation between countries through joint projects and working to expand economic, defence and political capacities for the sake of overall stability and development. That's exactly why these agreements are necessary. Facing the challenges, Serbia is responsible and solidly developing co-operation at all levels, on a regional, European and global plan with all friends and partners, taking over and sharing any responsibility. Since the beginning of the migrant crisis, Serbia has shown how responsible we are and how human. We had several centers where we provided all the conditions for the reception and accommodation of migrants. We've given our hand to anyone who's in trouble. That is why the agreement with Northern Macedonia is very important. It strengthens co-operation between the two countries on the transit route of illegal migration. In order to prevent organised crime, terrorism, and of course all other forms of crime that the members of the MUP must face. A few days ago, members of the IDP in Sombor, together with Gendarmeria, carried out an action to find illegal migrants and found 335 foreign citizens in several locations. They were transported from six buses to a reception centre in Presevo, where they will be provided adequate accommodation. When it comes to the fight against crime, members of an organised crime group arrested in a joint action between the MUP and the BIA were detained on February 5th. They belong to a group known as the "earth clan", which is found to be suspected of murder, extortion, kidnapping and drug dealing. In just 100 days since Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic's announcement that Serbia will deal with organised crime, Darko Elez, who has been avoiding justice for years, and now Belivuk and members of his organised criminal group, has been arrested. In just 100 days, Serbia has shown that there is a war against organised crime and that the state is making a better, safer and safer place. The prevention of smuggling, violence, theft, drug trafficking, violent driving, robbery, traffic security control in the last week alone was a whole series of these actions on a daily basis where the members of the MUP were perfectly and effectively able to end criminal activities and arrest the perpetrators. Minister, I congratulate you and wish you more success in all future actions. The agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom government in the area of defence is developing co-operation in the area of military-economic, scientific and technical, security co-operation and military education. Our government has regained respect, respect and honor for the Serbian Army, because the military represents a link without which no state can survive. That's why I'm very proud, and for me, the army represents the strength and size of a country. So I want to express my gratitude to this government for making progress with the desire to continue to strengthen our country's military and defence system. We can really say now that the Serbian Army is fully in control of Serbian territory, safeguards security, and will never allow any political instability to overflow on our territory. There is a guarantee of peace and stability not only in Serbia, but throughout the region. It is constantly working to strengthen the military and modernise all military systems. The activities taken by the defence ministry and the Serbian Army confirm that Serbia wants to be a reliable partner in building security and defence. Therefore, this agreement is just another step in deepening and strengthening our country's co-operation with others. In the voting day, I will support all the proposed laws and I call on my colleagues to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3001	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. The next is MP Ivan Fishman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3002	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, distinguished Ministers Vulin, with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, before I start talking about agenda points, especially an agreement with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, I would like to refer to a few events that took place a few days ago, which I think deserve attention to say a few words about them. First, the state has shown its uncompromising seriousness in the fight against organised crime, and with all due respect to the presummation of innocence on my part, I dare say that it has brought justice to one of the most organised and dangerous criminal groups in this part of Europe. I would like to congratulate all the participants in the process, especially President Aleksandra Vukic, without whose initiative and decision, we have seen little that can be initiated, and then the honourable ministers to congratulate you who have once again shown your commitment, courage and high level of professionalism in solving all the problems you face in all the areas you have dealt with so far. In a short time, you've been handling this ministry, there's nothing less to say than the honor of the minister. The next thing I think it's worth it is that in addition to the record number of vaccines, the continued strengthening of the economy, which can be seen in the permanent gradual strengthening of wages and pensions, which can be clearly seen through the reduction of the unemployment rate and other indicators, the realisation of capital projects such as the construction of highways, the construction of hospitals within a record short period, the opening of new factories, now and the plan of opening the subways, what is clear, in addition to all that I have stated, is that the better life of our citizens is a foundation in the policy of this ruling nomenclature, it is that this power in this many crises has singled out three billion dinars for the treatment of rare diseases. If we compare it to 2008, when the authorities say that now that they're riding the state saddle again that it's going to be better, we'll see that the difference is significant because they then invested in this area of zero dinars. Thirdly, we are witnessing the permanent strengthening of the international reputation of the Republic of Serbia, which continues with a wisely-led foreign policy, primarily Mr. Alexander Vukic, in the interest of our country and people, which we can see after our last visit to the President of France, Emanuel Makron, and his relationship with our president and our country in general, until the esteemed President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, wants to produce Sputnik vaccines in partnership with the Republic of Serbia, which is a matter of policy at the world level. What is so important to me and what I could point out is that the President of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Mr Zoran Zayev, announced the return and study of Serbian language and culture to their schools, as well as the opening of a Serbian cultural centre in Skopje. I would like to refer to another fact that has raised a public storm in recent weeks, which is the presentation, namely an interview by academics Kostic from SANU, on President Vukic, on Kosovo and Metohija. The great writer Dante Aligieri said that the darkest circles of hell are reserved for those who, at the time of the moral crisis, remain reserved and restrained. When it happened at Cosmet's March pogrom in 2004, the Academy didn't exactly advertise. Also, when Kosovo illegally declared independence in 2008 or when Vuk Jeremic, the dialogue between Kosovo and Metohija transferred from the UN to the EU and brought EULEX to KIM, or when Borko Stefanovic began negotiations with this so-called. the state of 2011. As much as someone, according to what distinguished academic Kostic has or does not have sympathy, at least he does not stick to the side and has a view of the most complex issue burdening Serbia at the moment. He does not push his head into the sand like many others, knowing that this difficult question will not bring him glory and that whatever he says, it will come to the approval of one piece of public opinion. And this wasn't the first time he's held a stand on this subject, he's done it years ago, but now we're all witnesses of organized and orchestrated campaigns against him. As famous Walter said - I hate what you're saying, but I will defend your right to show my life. And we must note that it is for all those who swear to freedom and human rights, and that this ruling regime is accused as despotic, tyrannical and still foreign codes of conduct. Serbia today, respected gentlemen, is a free country in which everyone has the right to say what they want, and especially personalities such as academic Kostic. Public opinion said a lot of hard words on his account. I don't want to get into what he said right now, but I think it's a good thing that the dialogue involves both academics and the Academy, which represents their views or views of the individuals in it. In social dialogue on the subject, the involvement of SPC and universities and intellectual cultural elites is also important. The public dialogue should be affirmed in which institutions and individuals are free to express their views, thereby contributing to a comprehensive view of the problem. Only the widest possible public dialogue can offer quality solutions and therefore we need to develop mutual tolerance for all participants in the dialogue, and disdaining, insulting participants only composits a complex situation in this matter anyway. Whether we agree with academics Kostic's views, the participation of the first man of this prominent institution in Kosovo and Metohija can only be welcomed, as it is motivated by the desire to make a contribution to making important decisions that are unprecedentedly burdensome in Serbia's history. It is certainly difficult to talk about Kosovo and Metohija on the subject with abstention, cold and without emotion, but this historic moment requires just that kind of effort and principle. I am convinced that, as a society, we have matured to establish our national position and that over time, we will make a decision that will be in the interest of today's and future citizens of Serbia. Now I'd like to get back to the agenda. As the Honorable Minister Vulin said today, we are discussing a very important topic, which is confirming an international agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the area against migrant smuggling. Since I've spent my entire working life in the Customs Administration dealing with these precisely smuggling operations, both narcotics, excise goods and other goods, as well as people, I would only point out that we have achieved significant results. In 2019, the smuggling of 1331 migrants was depreciated, almost a similar number in 2020. I think this is a particularly important issue, because this agreement has a specific weight because it is one of the most important security challenges in today's times, problems and regular migration. I would also use this time to congratulate the newly appointed director, Mr. Branko Radajk, as director of Customs, with the desire to continue with the top results that the Customs Administration has achieved in the previous period. To continue, we as a state and all its institutions have shown that we have been successfully dealing with the migrant crisis since 2015 when it was at its beginning. In addition to being able to preserve the safety of our citizens, which we can clearly establish by the comparative and criminal acts committed by migrants on our territory and in our countries in the environment, Serbia should boast that it is best to look after myself in such a way as to say to most unfortunate people, because I was on the ground personally, what horrors they are going through, men, women, old people, children, through the whole kind of smuggling them from point one to point two. As it is said, and should be repeated, Serbia has organised reception centres for migrants and these reception centres are the only ones in Europe where migrants are treated with respect, with respect, respect and respect for all their national, religious, historical and other characteristics, as well as the living circumstances in which they are located. Many countries that swear on human rights and freedoms and who lecture around the world about them have not done so, not the least part of what the Republic of Serbia has done. Of course, without any distinction from our citizens, the migrants have to comply with the laws of this country, act in accordance with them, because we will not allow them to have the hospitality and honor we have shown them in any way. Like drug trafficking, excise goods and all other goods on which big profits can be made, smuggling has become clear, lucrative and large-scale criminal business since the start of the migrant crisis. Since organised crime groups have significantly faster contacts than official institutions, that they do not constitute an obstacle to neither borders nor different languages, and that they always find their common denominator, which is making huge profits, it should point out that this type of agreement is needed in order to achieve co-operation between our two countries and reduce the fight against smuggling, and it is much easier and more effective. The border with the Republic of Northern Macedonia is an extremely frequent area for different forms of smuggling. It's a line called the so-called line. Balkan routes for drug trafficking, but these channels are often used when it comes to human trafficking. For this reason, the agreement with our southern neighbour, which includes co-operation in order to prevent, identify, protect, refer and co-operate in criminal and other proceedings or through the function of voluntary return of victims of human trafficking, which we can see in Article 9, particularly important not only for signatories countries, but in a far wider European context. The signing of this agreement, i.e. intensifying the activities of the Republic of Serbia to the prevention of human trafficking, as we can see in Article 5, identifying the victims of this illegal activity, which we can see in Article 6 and protecting the victims of the trade mark in Article 8 is another clear indication that the functioning of the authorities in the Republic of Serbia is aimed at preserving the health, life and rights of both our citizens and all those in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. An agreement with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, as well as all similar agreements to be signed, protecting, of course, Serbia's national interests should be seen as a move that goes towards decisive defence with organised crime and hooligan groups. The people of Serbia clearly sees who is working in his interest and that the current government will not deviate from its loyalty and commitment to national interests is also talking about this agreement that we are discussing today. Noting that this Agreement is in line with international regulations, which we can see in Article 4, and that it is written in such a way that it prevents political abuse, which we can see in Articles 1 and 11 and protects national interests, I call on everyone in voting day to vote unanimously for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3003	I thank the People's MP Ivan Ribaq. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are now setting a break of one hour. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. To point out that the parliamentary group is Alexander Vukic – for our children the remaining time is exactly two hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is Tiana Davidovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3005	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you because you are quite familiar with the many problems faced daily by the citizens of the Lazarec municipality, but also by the members of the MUP to have an understanding and to continue the procedure for the construction of a new police station in Lazarjevac in order to successfully implement this project. On this occasion I would like to introduce you to the current situation and the fact that the PU in Lazarevec is divided into two independent facilities, so that in one facility there are jobs related to the issue of travel documents, registration and registration of residence and issue of ID cards, driver's licenses, as well as registration of the vehicle. The big problem that most of all the employees of this facility face is the lack of adequate space for archiving objects that are literally located everywhere and believe that I am not exaggerating when I say that employees are buried in these objects, which indirectly affects our citizens who often have to come to the PU several times to take out the necessary documents. Also, one of the problems facing both employees and citizens, especially during the summer period when high temperatures and people's frequencies are significantly increased due to annual holidays, is a small space and lack of ventilation, so the conditions are both for employees and for the citizens are extremely inhuman. Believe it's easier to be out front at 35 degrees on the asphalt than to be inside the room. In another facility located across the street, a police station is located where the situation is no better, because in rooms of no greater than eight to ten squares sits on average three inspectors. The municipality's leadership in the previous period has done ideas that have been approved by the Police Directorate. The municipality also provided land, and urban development is under way. We are aware of the current situation and the consequences left by the pandemic, but on behalf of the members of the MUP PU Lazarevic, but also of the citizens of the Lazarec municipality, I would like to ask you once again to try to find a way to continue this project and build a new police station that will make a significant contribution to all the citizens of the Lazarec municipality. I thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3006	Thank you. The word has Bojan Bag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3007	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, instead of how I planned my address to begin to praise President Aleksandar Vukic, you, Minister Vulin, Prime Minister Brnabic, to congratulate the members of the MUP and BIA on the results achieved in the fight against the worst and most demonstrative form of organised crime, I must, on behalf of my colleagues, send an apology to both Ministers and President Vukic, but above all to the citizens of Serbia, and most of all to those from the territory of the southern Serbian province of KIM, who yesterday in this building were guilty of nothing more than the most terrible insults of MP Shaip Camberi. In light of the context of his address, as well as the SMS messages we received from the people who watched the broadcast, we heard that it was the carrying out of the worst insults and lies addressed to you, President Vukic, former Serbian President and SRJ Slobodan Milosevic, as well as the entire state of Serbia. A part of the MPs rebelled sharply because we were not allowed to hear a translation that, for the citizens to know, we had not officially received. At that time, we were publicly called by the President of Parliament to disturb the MP's speech in the native language. No, we didn't mind what language the MP was speaking, but what he was saying as he spoke. It bothered us that he compared Serbia with Nazi Germany, the minister with Goebbels, accused President Vukic of supporting fascism in Serbia, and former Serbian-SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic of committing rapes, murders and persecution of the population of KIM, but to be honest, it was most disturbing that, unlike us, the president of parliament did not warn the parliamentarian Kamberi that he could not abuse the MPs' institution and bring out such disgusting lies. Let's go over these lies and insults and cross over, but how do we get past the silence of Parliament's president to the threat of MP Camberi so that the Serbs in KIM can feel some reciprocal measures? What can the Serbs from KIM feel without feeling for the last three, four decades? The murders, the persecution, the burning of property, the abuse, there's no such thing as the poor people's experience and survival. So, once again, I feel obliged to apologize to all of you on behalf of my colleagues for yesterday's scandal and shame. When we talk about confirming the Agreement with the Kingdom of Lesota and co-operation in the area of defense, I must express my satisfaction. We countries cannot and must not share in large and small, as well as the rich and poor, but those who are friendly and who respect international rights and those who do not. The Kingdom of Lesotto has shown for the past few years on two occasions that it is a genuine friend of the state of Serbia, its people first withdrawing recognition of the fake state of Kosovo, and then voting against the admission of the same fake state to Interpol. It is an act that Serbia must never forget and that is why we should improve our co-operation, not only in the area of defence, but also in all other areas. When I talk about confirming the Agreement on Co-operation with the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the area of combating migrant smuggling, I will first and foremost refer to the migrant issue in the globally, and I would especially like to point out that, freely speaking, the maximum responsibility of the policy that all the authorities and individuals in charge of the issue, starting with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, the Prime Minister, the overall composition of the last two or even three governments, has been directly in charge of that matter for a time, means that it is up to all of you to resolve the migrant issue that has led to more than a million migrants passing through Serbia, and that no moment is being questioned by the security of our citizens, while respecting the fundamental human rights of migrants, although we are aware that among these migrants were also the enviable number of terrorists and extremists. In any case, this agreement is a major step forward since Northern Macedonia is the territory from which we have reached the largest number of migrants since 2015 and precisely co-operation with the country will contribute to the fight against this type of crime. I am extremely pleased that Minister Vulin is here today with us because I really want to commend what all the ministers of defence and home affairs have done since 2012, starting with the ministerial mandate of today's President Alexander Vukic, so here you are, Mr Minister, in recent years which have been filled with security challenges, have done on the development, promotion, arms and equipment of Serbia's Army, but also the Ministry of Interior. I would also like to praise everything that has been done to improve the standards of security forces both through increasing profits and through resolving housing issues since these people, members of security forces, over the past years and decades have endured the greatest burden and their daily struggle and efforts to make Serbia a much safer and safer place to live, and we expect them to be a guarantee of our safe and peaceful life in Serbia in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3008	Thank you. Mr. Torbica, on the subject of whether or not the translation was delivered, I have just checked, the professional services claim that after the intervention this morning, the MP groups sent a letter to the expedition containing the translation that I delivered to MP Shaip Kamberi. So, for your information and everyone else, what you get or you get to the office, is a translation for which the MP Shaip Kamberi himself claims to represent his words, so that you can comply with that and set yourself up according to that content. Mrs. Paunovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3009	Thank you very much. I will use the right to reply, not because I think my colleague Torbica is wrong when he insists on translating something that none of us, nor did the citizens of Serbia understand in the majority part. The translation has not yet arrived, yes, we were just checking to see if we had all the details of what my colleague Camberi said, but what I have to react to is the fact that the president of the Serbian Parliament couldn't predict the way he was going to speak to his colleague Camberi and that he would address himself in his native language, and that he can't respect him now as being irresponsible, in fact, the fact that he wasn't psychic in the part in which he could expect Kamberi to address himself in Albanian and bring us all into a situation that we're really confused because we don't understand, and by following his discussions recently in the Sprat language we know that they're mostly maligned. I join the apology of the citizens of Serbia, even to the citizens of the southern Serbian province, as my colleague, to me, said of my great misfortune for not being in the O.R., perhaps I could help you, so that I could understand and explain how many insults he has spoken. How authentic that translation will be, we can also deal with it because I was fortunate or unhappy to learn Albanian language in primary and secondary school when he was illiterate, until the moment they decided to shut themselves out of the functioning of Serbia's system. So, I just really want to react, so that Ivica Dacic today, as someone who is originally fighting for the sovereignty of this country, honors something that really doesn't belong to him, doesn't belong to the Socialists, that my colleague Torbica knows, first of all, because we're socialists, and we used to be in the same party, and there was no evil intention, but there was no possibility of having visionary predictions of which direction and how my colleague Camberi will turn to, whom we can't deny the right to speak in his native language, but it would be civilized to inform us in time and deliver the translation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3010	Thank you, Mrs. Paunovic. I understood this as an additional explanation on your part. So, it's just important that and when it comes to insults and any other content, you all know that what's being delivered to your office today is the content behind which Mr. Cambery himself stands, or what he claims to represent his words and his views. So it can't certainly be a question of an adequate translation yes or no. We're moving on to the list of people who've signed up for the word. The word is Rajka Matovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3011	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have two very important agreements, one has been directed by the Ministry of Defence, as regards the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Lesota, and the other has been directed by the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia, as regards the fight against migrant smuggling, which was signed in Skopje in December 2019. We all understand the importance of these two agreements and how much illegal profits are achieved by smuggling migrants. The Republic of Serbia has shown and shows on the case of the migrant crisis how successful, organised and human, but also how much it takes to ensure that the everyday lifestyle is not disturbed in any way, and that it does not allow the threat to the safety of its citizens. We also showed the human side, which is to protect our state interests, to protect our citizens, and also to treat migrants in a human and dignified way. The two agreements also show the government's continuity with all governments since 2014. When we formed a government here just over a hundred days ago, we talked about six clear goals and programs of this government. Just a hundred days ago, we were talking here about one of the goals, which is to fight the state against the mob. The fight against the mafia will be determined and uncompromising, and all state authorities and all ministries will commit themselves, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic said at the time. One of the most notorious criminal groups operating in our country's territory has been arrested. Indeed a brilliant action and police and BIA and all the security structures of our country and we must not stand on this, all who are connected to this criminal group must be brought to justice. A difficult task is ahead of you, which is to clear the state structures of the people associated with this criminal group. I really don't doubt you'll make it. Since the collapse of the Zemun clan, there have been no serious actions and such determined actions in the fight against crime and corruption. Certainly commendable, but this is both our mission and yours to serve the citizens of Serbia. We must not allow the success of such a great action to be diminished or perverted by comments so-called. The opposition. The so-called opposition bothers because this action may have been brought into law by their friends, business associates, or perhaps their financials. If they wanted a targeted sniper in the President of the Republic and painted it on the front pages of the daily newspaper, cartoons that were shared on social networks, and the same sniper found in this criminal group that was arrested, is that just a coincidence? Today we have various confusing statements both Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic and Borko Stefanovic and many other self-proclaimed opposition leaders. Citizens made it clear yesterday in Pančev what they think of Marinika Tepic and the period she was in power in the province. Dragan Gilas, who rang all the bells that we wouldn't have enough vaccines, that Serbia had no immunisation plan, how to examine the quality of the vaccine when those vaccines arrived in Serbia the other day received the first dose of the vaccine against the coronary virus. To be clear, all Serbian citizens should receive vaccines against the coronary virus, but it would be fair for Dragan Gilas to now write a letter to European representatives that Serbia has enough vaccines and does not doubt their quality. So much has been done in Serbia in the last eight years and they are in pain really and every meter of highway, they are in pain of every new factory and every new job, every salary and pension increase, and we really have something to be proud of. We're second in Europe after vaccination. Currently, unemployment is at a historic minimum and is about 7%, the average salary in Serbia is slightly more than 500 euros. They're all in a lot of pain and frustration. For all this, I urge you to take a closer look at the statements, but also at the parts of the opposition leaders for the protection of the interests of all Serbian citizens, and you will always have constructive support for your work. In voting day, together with my colleagues, I will support these two agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3012	Thank you. The word has Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3013	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are monitoring this television broadcast, I would talk about Serbia's relationship with migrants and how Serbia in a difficult, turbulent time is not only in Europe, but also in the world, a small state, but strong, strong towards its human relationship, through this relationship, through the difficult experience it has had in its history, as it has experienced at that time. It's hardly that this migrant crisis has been forced on her side in any way. According to the estimates of all relevant international factors, I would not have had those other factors that used to sit here or mentioned in that context, our country was doing a great job in this difficult time, with limited resources and resources, at that time only to begin comprehensive economic reforms, on a strong and serious test of how it will survive and what it will look like at the end of this difficult, I say, crisis that the world was facing at that moment. We didn't welcome the migrants who were passing through Serbia as enemies, we didn't beat them anywhere, we bullied them, we didn't live up to them as a people. Our country carried out human, human, responsiblely, understanding the suffering of some people that they had not found their dreams to go through Serbia or to stay in Serbia, but that the torment and misfortune had made them go on some distant journey looking for safety for themselves and their families from war-torn areas. And as a people, the perilous people who too often in their history had to seek peace from their hearths and peace in some other places where the Serbian people live, we had this experience and knew that we were able to manage and help the people who at that time were difficult, and I say, in no way do we do any harm to our country and in any way endanger any citizen of the Republic of Serbia and do not question the security or security of our country. In this regard, the citizens of Serbia see and know and feel it. True, of course, we are people, we have been determined to say some minor incidents where the state once again knew moderately, measuredly and appropriately to seduce order and to show that in Serbia no chaos is allowed in any way and that no one in it can behave beyond the law that our country prescribes. It's part of Serbia, part of our relationship with migrants and that crisis we faced. Some, of course, as in any accident when it happens, have found for themselves a chance to make some money in an illegal and immoral way by misusing the crisis with migrants, smuggling people, trying illegally to bring them into the territory of Serbia and transposing them into the territory of another country, misusing different resources on that path. Our country, with all its capacities, first of all the Ministry of the Interior knew how to respond and to stop such phenomena. And it's also a responsible relationship between our country and society, because we showed a picture of ourselves as it is. We sent a picture of Serbia's most beautiful face into the world, and in this situation we didn't raise barbed wires, we didn't put fences, walls, we didn't stay away from these people and those problems, we tried to find this best way to respond to the crisis by helping some unfortunate people, and our country kept its tradition of humanity and responsibility to people who are in accidents and troubles and helping them. In that sense, I am very proud of the work that our country, our Government of the Republic of Serbia did in this difficult time, and most of all the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. Normally, Serbia would not be Serbia, a country of wonder, if you had not had on the other side some who tried not only smuggling but in a political way to abuse such a difficult crisis of these troubled people, by getting involved with the story that Serbia, which we all know is in what situation with Natalie, is going to settle millions of migrants on its territory, that we already have a million, two, or who knows how many millions of migrants walking and harassing Serbia, that Serbia will be in terrible trouble, that we will find ourselves in an almost impossible challenge for our country, that we are weak, that we can't allow human relations to these people, that we are, least of all, as Dragan Gilas said, a freak from the state. We've shown that he's actually a freak. Because a man who is trying to abuse, and he has abused, dealing with his politics, not only migrants, but also the city of Belgrade, citizens of Belgrade and Serbia, and all that he has touched, only to harm his country, to cast mud on the face of his people, the mark of the worst possible species. And for what? Because he would have some hundreds of millions of euros. I don't know how he can stand in front of those same citizens today, look them in the face and say: vote for me. Does anyone who steals during their mandates not gain, because it is impossible with those revenues to get 619m euros, can look into the face of any man in Serbia, any family who has remained in Belgrade with 400m, to look at and say – come on, mother, vote for me now, yes, I owed you, I took 400m and I took your children 619m euros, but I'll be better, next time I'll steal a billion and 200m, so give me trust; next time some new brother-in-law won't be smuggling five kilos of heroin or cocaine, he'll have 10kg; vote, mother for me, to owe you 800 million next time. There is no mother in Serbia today who will give such scum, such a criminal trust and say – you will take my child out somewhere. Where? On this dark road that was followed by Belivuk, political and criminal ally of Dragan Gilas, because there are so many similarities between them, so many common interests among them, so many common jobs, perhaps common friends. None of us here have any brother-in-laws convicted of drug dealing. None of our brother-in-law is in jail for any crime, let alone poisoning children with narcotics. And Dragan Gilas has such a brother-in-law. Marinika Tepic has such friends. Bosko Obradovic has a godfather they call "Tocillo". What kind of man does it have to be to get the nickname "Tocillo"? Every Serbian citizen knows that. Dragan Gilas also has allies who run some of his boards and who are convicted of drug dealers. He takes pictures and screws in those photos, where he says – a random selfie on the street. Imagine, you were stopped by someone and accidentally just a member of the Zemun clan, a random witness killer, by chance by someone who killed the prime minister of your party in the government's yard in 2003. By chance, none of them knew anything about it, and by any chance he was with the same member of the Zemun clan, the killer, the pecks in the picture, just 18 years after the assassination of the prime minister, the late Zoran Djindjic. By chance, preparations are being made for months, years, to liquidate Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. They make fun of us all here when we talk about it, they say we're stupid, we're illiterate, we're stupid, we're ugly, we're like this, when we ask what's on the front page of any weekly and daily cartoons or photo of a sniper pointed directly at the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic? Then it happened that overnight magically changed that cover, but it didn't go when it came out, it appeared on the Internet, the first copy came out around midnight, which could be found by citizens walking the streets by colporteurs. What do you tell people? You accidentally created a front page on which you pointed nothing less than a sniper at the President of the Republic? You're the same one that the Zemun clan pointed at and shot from a sniper to your Prime Minister. Then we get the answer to all these questions, the best, through the selfies of Dragan Gilas with that bastard from the Zemun clan. He says - I was stopped by a man on the street by accident. I don't know if any of us have ever had such a chance to stop him from making selfies with him, not just a killer from the Zemun clan, with someone you don't know? It's such a big and happy smile you have, with a thrill, one such brotherly hug, I'd say. Now, there's this similarity between the character of Belivuk and Dragan Gilas, their interests. Because Serbia's interest and their interest are not the same. Serbia's interest is to clear its streets from drugs, from crime, from murderers, from those who call themselves Partizan fans, or Star, or Rada, or from Belgrade, or I don't know which club in Serbia, so that some kids, who will be given new tasks for a little drug, will be scattered more along the streets of Serbia and Belgrade. It's no cheerleading leader, no fans of the club, no legends of the North or the South, it's murderers and naked scum. And where they are now, that's where they belong, behind bars. In every normal state, they know where they belong and where they end up. Good, I'm saying they ended up there now, because who knows what weeks before us or months after those sniper shootings brought Serbia. All honors to our police, the Security Information Agency, other services of the Republic of Serbia, who have worked together in a responsible and difficult job for anyone who has dealt with crime and carried out it all the way. I ask you not to stop at it, to go to the end, not just to taps, but to complete that octopus of accident, drugs and crime, the horrors that are being prepared in Serbia, to clear our streets, to free the streets and children of risk of someone entering the school yard, to sell them drugs, and to wrap some family in black for it. This is why we are all responsible here, for it is the police responsible, for it is all our services, after all, which is why the citizens and gave us this trust, to free them from people like Belivuk, Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, some Mare butcher and others. It is not a society that Serbian citizens want to rule and run Serbia, and they have dared to take over the leadership of Serbia. Where are they taking her? To make Serbia some kind of cartel, to become Mecca and Medina for drug dealers, for murderers, that anyone who thinks he's going to stand up to crime is threatened, that anyone who thinks he's opening a private business is being recruited, that anyone who thinks he's doing any kind of public work where he can make a fair amount of money to come to him, what did they call him, Mr. Belivuk, and that he's recruiting anyone? Now, that can't happen in Serbia anymore. Serbia has the head of President Alexander Vukic, behind him strong and strong, capable people who lead both the police and the military and all our services that work and operate within the framework of the military and police to protect Serbia from both outside and from the outside, that even those who would want to shake it cannot shake it, that they cannot affect the situation within it, and those inside have no chance of ever getting the authorities in the Republic of Serbia again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3014	Thank you. The word is Vesna Nedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3015	Honored chairman, respected ministers, guests, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this agreement prevents and prevents the fight against organised crime by smuggling groups in every way. The agreement does not apply to the reception of migrants, aid, as well as legal aid regulated under international contracts. Information is very important among the countries of the agreement in terms of exchange of information and concerns routes, identity, as well as the prevention of criminal activities of migrant smuggling groups. The two countries form joint teams, carry out activities, organise joint training, exchange experiences, reveal routes, locations, as well as movement of property and equipment intended for this crime. The exchange of information relates to face data, their links with other groups, mode of action, way of connecting, weather, place and type and details of smuggled persons, data on locations where transfers are carried out, as well as means of transport used for this purpose, data that can and leads to the prevention of human trafficking. Joint teams must co-operate with other international organisations of other countries, such as the agreement between Russia and Serbia, as Islamic extremists who pose a security risk not only to both countries, but also to the security of Europe as well. Our President Aleksandar Vukic initiated a small Schengen agreement, which was signed by Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania, and one of the points is the common fight against Kovida-19. With the country's responsibility, the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, has obtained several types of vaccines against the pandemic. Our citizens can choose what vaccine they want to vaccinate, and the quantities obtained are such that Serbia is second in Europe and seventh in the world by the number of vaccinated citizens. We must be proud of our leadership and our president who in this brutal struggle to obtain the vaccine also helps other countries in the environment. Zaev praised Serbia's eight thousand phaser vaccines in northern Macedonia. Serbia's gesture is presented as human, good neighbourly, by building friendly relations among countries in the region. The opposition's move was presented as wasteful, irresponsible to its citizens. Mrs. Trajkovic, in addition to a poor attempt to present Alexander Vukic to a bad president who does not care about his citizens, as a doctor you should welcome, but hate is stronger than anything, as well as the need to attack. You gentlemen won't do what you want. All this that Serbia prides itself on, such as two coves of hospitals built in record time, hundreds of kilometers of highways, building a fast track, starting to build a subway, building Belgrade on water, building bridges, bringing in foreign investments, you all wanted to poison yourself with hate. Now I ask you - then why are you using newly built highways, why are you buying apartments in Belgrade on water, why were you taking 100 euros in aid, and you are likely to take a new one announced of 60 euros? You've been poisoning citizens with stories that there's no such thing as a pig, that it's a fabrication, a simple virus, and that's how you put everyone who believes you at risk. Every new wave shut down all the hospitals that turned into a cove of hospitals, so patients suffering from various chronic diseases were threatened with their diseases and covides. Yes, gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia died and other diseases, you brought the citizens of Serbia into an unexplainable situation. All controls, interventions, treatments had to be delayed because those who believed you spread the virus at various parties, protests over possible measures that should have reduced the number of infected deceased. You criticized when it was closing, so when the measures were eased, you criticized why they're easing. You mocked two hoofs of hospitals, you stole applause from the world's only medical workers who spent almost a year fighting the invisible angels who swallowed everything in front of them, looking neither rock nor year. You've already calculated that you're winners in the next election, the calculations with the raised percentages are a little impossible, but good. I am interested in who will go to the polls and how many people Serbia actually has because you declare that it leaves Serbia daily for 50,000 citizens, which would mean that it leaves the country more than 18 million a year. Does that mean we're all long gone or is there a few billion of us? Anything to do as you wish, hate will be stronger, so much so that you've started to hate each other. Of course, Serbian citizens recognize who is responsible for the government and who is responsible for the president. In the voting day, I will support the proposal for an agreement, as well as my colleagues from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3016	Thank you. The word is Nenad Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3017	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, given that today we have two points on the agenda, as regards the Agreement with the State of Lesota, we can only say – thanks to a small country that has come to meet us twice in a row, us and our nation, and of course, this agreement is the gratitude of the people behind us when we withdraw the false state of Kosovo, and later by voting against entry into Interpol so-called Interpol. false countries of Kosovo. However, I will look a little more at the second item of the agenda, that is, the agreement with Northern Macedonia, because I come from one of the municipalities that has half the state border with Northern Macedonia, which is Trade. Such an agreement reduces the risk of human trafficking, migrants and anything that would in some way endanger the security of citizens, and so I say that with the right of such a law is on the agenda where we all must primarily take care of our children, and to worry about a set of such laws is necessary for the implementation and security of both inhabitants on both sides of the border. The flow of people by this law will not be reduced, since we have a small Schengen that has accelerated the flow between Serbia and northern Macedonia. On this occasion, I would ask the Minister for the border police, or the station located in the Shop, to be moved to the territory of another municipality, and it would be important for the lives and work of the people, who themselves work in that station and provide the state border, to be returned to the next systematicisation and organisation within the ministry itself, because it is a life for members who work and make their incomes in that territory, and to increase security, as I said, 54km of the state border, half of the total border with Northern Macedonia. Also, I want to say one more thing that's important, colleagues who spoke a little bit about migrants, but I'm someone who comes from Pcinj County where the largest number of migrants show up and go through the route. The Minister of the Interior, then in the second position and several times, not a few times, but at least a month we met at the centres and working to help those people who were coming in on July 15, 2015, and Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, himself, together with a part of the minister, and also present here, Mr Vulin, visited and was present at migrant centres, which means that he is talking about a brave man who was allowed to go and where, we all know later, from one part of the migrants, there were terrorist actions in Western Europe, which means that our president had understanding, the benefit for all who came to Serbia. They received bread and warm clothing, so that they could leave and travel to Western Europe, which is what their goal is. Once again, I commend one agreement and another, given that both are to the benefit of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3018	The word is Natasa Ljubisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3019	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with an associate, we have two agreements to discuss today. One of them is the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the area of smuggling, the fight against migrant smuggling. The migration crisis is one of the key security challenges today. The Republic of Serbia has shown since the beginning of this crisis in 2015 that it is capable of coping with the consequences of the migrant crisis. Our country uses all necessary resources to control the inflow and movement of migrants. International co-operation is also needed to address this international problem, and above all regional co-operation is necessary. Nearly a million people have gone through our country thanks to President Alexander Vukic, the competent state authorities, as well as the MUP, to all those who have made a huge contribution to leaving the migration crisis on our country the least possible consequences. In addition, we can say that today we are the most successful country when it comes to fighting the consequences of the migrant crisis. Our country has shown and shows how organized and humane, acceptable centres for migrants during the biggest Kovid crisis, have been extremely organized. There was no case of Covid virus infection in them, which is the only such case, the only such organized accommodation in all of Europe we could have. The Republic of Serbia has treated migrants and treated them with dignity, respecting their rights, unlike most European countries. In border areas and in the migrant movement route, as required, the presence of members of the interior ministry has been increased. In certain cases of disturbance of public order and peace, by jeopardising the safety of the lives of our citizens, our country's security forces react professionally to protect the lives and assets of our citizens, but such reactions as we could hear were and will be much easier than those of the country's security forces in the region. A fresh example of unworthy treatment of migrants is the Republic of Croatia, which is otherwise a member of the EU, which, with the need of force, returned and returned migrants to BiH. Part of the MPs in the European Parliament sharply criticised the conduct of Croatian authorities towards migrants. European MPs said the Croatian police had acted against migrants in violation of their rights and called it a shameful move. In addition, the same Croatian police have returned four MEPs from their borders, not allowing them to see the treatment of Croatian authorities towards migrants. Imagine that happened in Serbia? What would the EU and European parliamentarians react to? Would it remain only on mere suggestions or would there be a little bigger problems for us? However, it is obvious that although Serbia is still on its way to the EU much faster, it has better learned all European values than some full-fledged EU members. Serbia is acting extremely responsibly, democratically, with respect for human rights towards these same migrants. The migrant crisis has also led many to try to earn money on this situation by smuggling migrants. The aim of the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia is precisely a common fight against migrant smuggling. This Agreement will make our co-operation even better and, most importantly, will lead to an increase in the security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In voting day, I'll vote for the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3020	Thank you. The word is Milimir Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3021	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, respected representatives of the government, Minister Vulin and you do not belong to the same political option. However, when you follow and keep track of someone's work for years, no matter what political option it belongs to, if it does good and important things for this country, there is nothing left for you to support the work in the heart, not making a difference which political option it belongs to. I'm talking about you here. A team before the political and political objectives that he represents on the trail of what was declared as early as 2014, when the government was taken over by today's president of the state, although these political goals and political and general policies are the same, then there is nothing left but to tell you that we will also support these agreements in the voting day. You, Minister Vulin, along with the government and the president, and I don't know if you're aware of it, as little as in modern Serbian history, have had the opportunity to confront the serious things that have burdened this country in taking over. I'll put you back in the past. I'd say they're not even serious things, but more monsters. I don't remember any political structure having the chance to lead Serbia through such problems. Bankrupt in 2012, which threatened to pull Serbia into an ambis, one of the most difficult winters in the end of 2013 and early 2014, a historic flood in 2014 where Serbia does not remember hitting in a recent history with such a single disaster. Migrant crisis in 2015, pandemic 2020. Do you need more? All of this is unfair and deluded by political opponents in the country itself. That, of course, made the task more difficult. From all these disasters, you, as the government, the president of the state, played Serbia as a winner and not only as a winner. Through all these disasters, Serbia has strengthened its international reputation and has been growing stronger and stronger to the pride and those who live in Serbia today, as well as all people who hold Serbia as their queen and live in the environment. I wouldn't particularly explain all this, given that we're limited to the Rules of Procedure, but the subject is the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of combating migrant smuggling, so I'm going to remind you that you, as head of government's task force, have had a serious task and may have been one of the important fighters of the migrant crisis, which you say started this morning in 2015. I would agree with you that she was sent a global problem in 2015, but the beginnings of the migration crisis in Serbia are much earlier and unfortunately we met with her in 2012, 2013. The best people living in northern Serbia near the Hungarian border know that. Serbia came out of this problem as a winner. You've managed to adapt one whole state system to a problem that was new at the time and you've succeeded in three main goals. The migrant crisis itself did not have much effect on the everyday life of citizens in Serbia, of course, as much as it had to. We have managed to preserve the safety of every man in Serbia, including those who have been passing through and have prevented a humanitarian disaster. Three of the most important things, but no less important -- has raised Serbia's international reputation. That was really difficult in this situation, especially when you take into account some of the things my colleagues have said before me, as it happens in some countries that are highly developed and EU countries. When you have all this in mind, you have certainly made through all of this both friends and in the international community and in some countries that may not have been in favour of Serbia's political system, because the facts were irrefutable. What is this today, these agreements? The sequel to that. A serious diplomatic gratitude to a small African country that has decided to withdraw recognition of Serbia's southern province and no longer see it as an independent country and this other agreement when it comes to northern Macedonia, security work and regional co-operation. Regional co-operation today may be one of the most important topics of all political developments in the Balkans. A team that lives in the region and in the countries surrounding the Republic of Serbia is not a small number of our citizens, or our countrymen, and this will also be on the trail of the policy declared by the president of the country. I think it is already obvious that both you and the government and the president are making serious efforts when it comes to improving the status of our community in the region, and that is certainly something that will have the support of this parliament, but the most important peoples in Serbia. We are a little limited by the Rules of Procedure, but, dear Minister Vulin, taking into account all this I've told you and considering the experience you carry from these difficult situations, which I was just talking about earlier, I hope that in the position where you are today as Minister of the Interior, using one such experience, you will be determined to end up dealing with what is probably Serbia's burning problem today, and in recent days, it has surfaced, to the end, to deal with crime and the mafia in Serbia. Certainly, I will not doubt that you will meet our expectations and justify the trust given to you by both this Parliament and the people in Serbia, because it is a matter that is not only about believing in the peoples of Serbia. It's an old thing about every man in the Balkans. This would end, and do not doubt that we, SNS MPs, will also support these agreements that are ahead of us today, but also all future things that will contribute to Serbia's security and the progress of all its citizens in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3022	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3023	Thank you. Before I refer to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking, I must stress that human trafficking is one of the most difficult forms of human rights violations and that it affects almost all countries, regardless of whether undeveloped or developed and human trafficking involves selling, buying, keeping a person to its exploitation, whether it's about earning profits or some other benefit. It can include transportation, hiding, guarding, and the like. The victim's consent to the exploitation doesn't change the fact that it's a human trafficking and that it's a crime. The government stereotype is that most often women and girls are threatened, while other forms of exploitation, such as working exploitation, whose victims are mostly men and victims of human trafficking, can be any independent of their origin, age, national belongings, education or any other trait. There's a difference between human trafficking, the agreement we're talking about today, and human trafficking. Human trafficking can be a local character, while human trafficking mainly refers to crossing the state border. In practice, these two issues can be linked because most often people who depend exclusively on smugglers become victims of human trafficking. Irregular migrants are potential victims of human trafficking because they have no freedom of movement, they are tied exclusively to a smuggler who uses the situation they are in. Serbia is a transit country when it comes to irregular migration, and this issue has culminated, especially in our region during the Great Migration Wave of 2015 and I think the migration crisis is the biggest challenge for the EU since its establishment. As a candidate country, we expected a common strategy on this issue, which has remained to this day. Some countries have closed their borders because they did not want to accept the European Commission's proposal on quotas to be allocated to all Member States. So there's still no right answer to this question. However, at this point, i.e. from the beginning of the Kovid 19 pandemic, this issue has fallen into another plan, which does not mean that it will remain that way. I don't think this problem will go away, that it will probably be very high again at some point on the EU agenda. I mention this because Serbia is like a European country which is geographically part of Europe, it faces the same challenges as the Member States, and we are surrounded by EU member states whose territories involve migrants in our territory and we, unlike some countries, have shown a high degree of solidarity. We received commendation for one human and responsible relationship, showing food assistance, housing, medical assistance to all migrants who have found themselves in our territory. We even registered them first at that moment, at the moment of that first big wave that I mentioned. However, all this has also prevented human trafficking and smuggling, but also co-operation that was later established with Frontext, at common border crossing control. The issue of migrants is not always related to human trafficking, but the situation in which they are located, as well as the often illegal ways in which they try to reach their final destination, which are mainly the most developed EU countries, can become and one part become victims of smugglers, or trafficking in human beings. It is clear now why this agreement with Northern Macedonia is significant, precisely because of the transit position of our two countries and the risks that migrants and irregular migrants are exposed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3024	Thank you. The word is Bug Tarbuk.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3025	Thank you. Respect, first of all, Mr. Chairman, respected ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and citizens of Serbia, before I say anything on the topic of the agreement that is before us today, wanted to join in the speech of Mr. Torbica and my fellow SPS member. So this is the Serbian Parliament and everyone has the right to speak in their native language, it is nothing controversial, but they would also pray, because of the reputation of our parliament, that next time we have a simultaneous translation and that we can react to any speech on the spot, not that after three days we think whether it is right or not. That thing is technically possible and I'd like to ask the secretary to pay special attention next time. As part of today's speech and in the agreements ahead of us, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotto contributes to the development of full bilateral relations between the two countries, particularly in co-operation in the fields of defence and security policy, military, economic and scientific and technological co-operation, military education and training, military medicine and veterinary. I particularly support the co-operation and development of the relations of the Kingdom of Lesota, because they are one of those who supported us and in preserving our southern provinces of Kosovo and Metohija, by withdrawing all decisions that could be interpreted as recognition of an independent so-called “independence”. the countries of Kosovo. Now I'd like to have just one little depression, today a few of my fellow respected ones were talking about how the Kingdom of Lesotto is a small state. No, the Kingdom of Lesotto is primarily a state whose international law is the Holy Scriptures and they were not ashamed to say to the powerful that Kosovo is the southern Serbian province. Maybe that's why they'll suffer some consequences. So for us, the Kingdom of Lesotto is primarily a state, and then in our hearts can be a great state, which certainly is for most of us. I'd just like to pray that in the future we say the Kingdom of Lesotto is a state. The objectives of international co-operation are aimed at protecting sovereignty, independence, the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, preserving peace, security in the world in co-operation and partnership with countries, international organisations and in the area of security and defence. The Republic of Serbia is a neutral state built on a partnership between the East and the West, recognised as a reliable and responsible partner in achieving military goals, while retaining its military neutrality and neutrality in general. As for the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the area of the fight against migrant smuggling and the mutual will for the two states to make a perfect office in the area, I fully support it, because as far as I remember something I did in the list the other day and read, migration did not begin yesterday. In some 1980 news reports, I recently found that one of our truck drivers smuggled migrants over ten of them. So we just didn't pay attention before, because we had other things that we were focused on. So, migration has been around for decades, but this agreement will help to fix it, so that we can focus on being with our partners in the region as best as possible and as safely as possible to give an answer to it. Anyway, in voting day, I'll support these two proposals, I think they're good for our country, I think they're good for the region and my colleagues in voting day, here, please support these agreements and, of course, if we have the strength and the time. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3026	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3027	I would like to thank the chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable ministers with our associates, today we have two agreements on the agenda that are very important from the aspect of the comprehensive security of our country and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would especially single out an agreement that we are paraphrasing here today with Northern Macedonia, which concerns a common fight against migrant smuggling, why North Macedonia may be the most important country in the environment for us in this process. It is precisely because as many as 95% of migrants come to Serbia from that country, from northern Macedonia, and this way here we are now raising overall security by cooperating and raising co-operation to a higher level between our two countries and thus I am sure that illegal entry of migrants into our country will be prevented. It is also very important to say that Serbia has really acted in one responsible way so far, in one way, I would say perhaps the most responsible way throughout Europe when it comes to the migrant route. We have here 19 reception centers that have functioned as one whole all this time. A million migrants have gone through our country so far without major incidents. I say no major incidents, of course there were spontaneous problems, and that's where our MUP reacted in time. We also have a situation where somewhere the military was involved in all of our country's activities and in this way we have raised security above all our citizens. Here when we talk about eventually having some problems, we say once again, yes, there have been various problems where our country has managed to cope. You announced last week that the state managed to return 97 regular migrants from Belgrade to Presevo. It's really something to be commended for. In this way, the state has proved to be working seriously and there is a system that you can't just cheat on like some people think that it's possible that human trafficking is going to make some money today. So the state is here to prevent all the problems that arise. I say again, only those migrants who apply and who legally enter our country have the status to allow them all these conventions. So these are those who can bear the status of migrants, all others are regular migrants who will be returned from where they came from and 90% of those migrants we have in Serbia today are legal migrants. The goal is that as soon as they enter our country and leave the same country, to absolutely agree with the majority of our citizens' attitude is unquestionably, therefore, that these people here should be fully respected. So, there's no problem on the whole track. It's something that we're interested in, but that they stay here and that they have any kind of privilege here, it's just another spin on the media that's trying to attack our country through that topic, attack our leadership, talk about how maybe someone is planning to stay here for a million or two million migrants is an absolute untruth, a lie, and it's a daily fight. To tell you the truth, you've got media like this all the time trying to get through this whole crisis to possibly benefit from something that would be. They're today placing false news trying to lift the circulation in their media. Here, the other day, there was a picture of the temple of St. Save where two workers came out on the terrace, and some media reported it to be migrants and then you know, a number of Serbian citizens believe. Believe me, and at first I believed it was true. When you see that picture, really these people look like they're really migrants who climbed the temple of St. Save and then automatically be certain emotions in people. It's not a good way to upset hate where it's gone. I say once again, you have in countless situations when certain incidents occur among the migrants themselves that our media conveyed tenently how the migrants attacked a young man, not saying that there was just a fight among the migrants themselves and that they did not attack the citizens of Serbia, but had some disagreements among themselves. I'm saying again, these are the media that are spreading their hatred for these people today. They shouldn't do that and why it's not on the honor of anyone who's doing it today. We in Serbia have shown that we are a human state, that we are a responsible state, we have not as certain other countries in the environment raised fences, we have not had any mass deportation, beating up migrants, such as in Croatia, and even the European Parliament had to react because of their rampage over migrants, but again, when we talk about it, we should say that where there are problems, and certainly there are, the state reacts in the right way. We had a situation that migrants had caused some problems almost in downtown Belgrade, you had that video when it was seen that a group of migrants were robbing a store in downtown Belgrade and it really upset the public. That's the kind of thing you need to talk about. I appeal to you ministers that, where we know certain incidents occur, they appear where reception centres are located. You have incidents where they live. Here in Belgrade, when we talk about Karadjordje's street, about Savska, where they are traditionally staying, there is a police presence to be strengthened. As recently in Shid, you sent a gendarme who calmed the situation, which managed to seduce order, so it should be at all those points where we find it problematic where incidents can happen to prevent such incidents from happening. The best way to prevent our military and our police, or the gendarmes, is to send security forces to those points that are critical where certain incidents can occur. I say once again, at least we've had incidents all over Europe when it comes to violence against migrants and vice versa against the citizens of the host country. It's for all praise. We've managed to show how these people are treated, to show that we're not like everyone else, and to show that we can fight this whole crisis. As for the Minister, the fight against crime and corruption, I would like to commend your work. In the previous period, you have shown that the state has the strength, that it can cope with all the troubles that our country faces, that there is no one in our country who can say that it is stronger than the law, that it is stronger than the state, that there is any other structure within our country that can mate with our country's services, so security services, security forces. In this way, we have shown once again that we are a respectable society, which is certainly the merit of President Aleksandar Vukic, who has the record support of Serbian citizens, thanks to the uncompromising fight against crime and corruption, which uncompromisingly insists that the standard of Serbian citizens is increasing and that we come to a European quality of life, which is our goal. Once again, I wish you good luck in the next period in the fight against crime and corruption. Serbia should be a safe country. That's why the citizens gave us this much support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3028	Thank you, Mr. Dabich. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Goran Pekarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3029	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Minister with an associate. I wanted to refer only to the agreement we signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotto. You're well aware of that, in the field of defense, which was up to almost your portfolio. Speaking of defences, I wanted to say, it is now the portfolio led by Minister Stefanovic. Minister Stefanovic sent a clear message to the Military Technical Institute that Serbia still has a domestic mind on the development of the defence industry and on the development of complex fighting systems. The dedicated industry, as you well know, is developing, the dedicated industry is progressing and is showing excellent results. Speaking of VTI, I wanted to remind ourselves in 2006, not only to remind ourselves in 2006, but to remember 2006. It's a period of three horsemen of the apocalypse. It was then Ponos, Sutanovac and Tadic. Then, in 2006, in just one short period of time, VTI lost more than 600 professionals and more in one day. In one day, they lost 600 engineers and professionals. That then mutilated the development of the dedicated industry. Our army was devastated at the same time. Malten's down to the level of one a little bit more guard. Minister Stefanovic said if we want to have an army, we have to have soldiers. It was a clear message to all those who know what the Army is and what the military is for and that its role is to safeguard freedom and independence and territorial integrity. The military is a deterrent factor to all those who want to threaten us and to condition us in any way, from any position, and that is why it serves. We have recently succeeded, or Minister Stefanovic has managed to open another topic, a topic that is not discussed, a topic that is on the margins or not even on the margins anymore, we simply laityly assume that no one is talking about it. It's something without which the Army can't function. No army in the world can function without it. It's logistics. The minister then attended the transfer of the vehicle contingent and thus opened the topic and reminded us of the importance of logistics for the military. He attended the transfer of a vehicle contingent for the needs of the Serbian Army logistics. You ministers know that well. In that composition were transport vehicles, delivery vehicles, ambulances, and, if I recall correctly, there were two tanks. Let me get back to the subject. It's good to sign agreements with friendly states like the Kingdom of Lesotto. The agreement was signed in 2019. If we remember in 2018, we signed an agreement with the Kingdom of Lesota, but it was done by Minister Nedimovic in the field of agriculture. Geographically speaking, the Kingdom of Lesotto is slightly less per area than Serbia, i.e. with its 30,000 square miles [30,000 sq km], it is about a third of the square of the Republic of Serbia, with its 2.2 million inhabitants, it is there again around a third of the population of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the Kingdom of Lesotto is located in Africa, all the way down south. Otherwise continental land, there's no going out to sea. It's interesting because it's borderline, it's kind of like an island. It only borders on one state. She's completely surrounded by the South African Republic. Otherwise, this agreement we signed with the Kingdom of Lesotto refers to defence and security military-economic, scientific and military training of military medicine and veterinary medicine and to all fields that will be interesting for both countries. The agreement is signed indefinitely and what is still interesting, all data exchanges will be made available to the public. I would only end with one sentence, which is – thank the Kingdom of Lesota for withdrawing the recognition of the false state of Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3030	Thank you. National MP Stefan Srbanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3031	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the action of arresting and breaking organized crime groups in Serbia and to say that as determined as we are in this fight, so much will Serbia be better and more successful in the coming period. "Be human as Serbia was in 1885. “ It’s a quote that's been in the building for a long time, in the lobby of an international Red Cross building in Geneva. I remind you of an event from the end of the 19th century, a precedent that hasn't been recorded in the history of war and has never been recorded since. It is, in effect, a moment when during the war with Bulgaria, Serbia is at one to end the war and allow the convoy to cross the international Red Cross through our territory in Bulgaria. Why did I start my presentation with this quote and this sentence? Because I am convinced that the migrant crisis, if we can call it that, has marked humanity in Serbia over the past few years. It marked the humanity of Serbia and the Serbian people, and what I am particularly convinced of is that in the genetic code of our people there is certainly altruism, philanthropy and humanity. By force of opportunity, neither guilty nor debtor, as a country on the route of migrants on their way to EU countries and Western Europe, has found themselves in one problem and has managed to meet all the challenges ahead of it in an adequate and good way. We have managed to be human, we have succeeded in something that even some EU countries have failed. We didn't close the migrants, we didn't beat them, we didn't throw tear gas at them, we didn't lift the fences, we didn't build the walls. We made it possible for these people to pass through our country, use it as a transit station, and that's where the whole story ends. Were there any incidents and problems on that road? It certainly is, especially in those places that are directly on that route, but what needs to be pointed out is that the state and its institutions have responded in the best possible way to these situations and have in many ways managed to protect our people and our citizens living in these areas. With this in mind, given that every accident draws a new accident, in this situation in particular, individuals and individual groups have tried to exploit this whole situation and in some illegal way profit from the whole situation by smuggling these migrants from our country's border to getting out of our borders. That is why we come to this agreement with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. We have indeed had one good co-operation with Northern Macedonia in the past, and we are also proving it through the Mini Schengen programme. We have indeed sent 8,000 doses of vaccines to Northern Macedonia, and that is indeed commendable, because who will help whom if the nearest neighbor is not in trouble? What I would also remind myself of is that a few days ago we hosted representatives of the Serbian people from Macedonia and Albania on the Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region. One of the messages I have left in my memory is that our friends and our countrymen from Macedonia and Albania have agreed that the position of the Serb people in those countries is as good as Serbia's. They also pointed out that in the past few years, there has been a tendency to mend that position, which means that our country is gaining more and more importance both in this part of Europe and in the region and in the Balkan Peninsula. So how do we come by this situation that Serbia can care so much about both its countrymen and its citizens? Well, I'll remind you that one of the main objectives of this government, which Prime Minister Brnabic also spoke of the other day when a hundred days of the Government of Serbia were marked, concerned about health and the protection of the population, so we are the only country in the world, I think, in which citizens have the opportunity to choose which vaccine to be vaccinated. What does it matter? So it's not just about the health of the population, it's about the economic progress of this country, it's about social and economic growth, and there are many, many miles of highways, railways, railroads, hospitals, health homes. I'll just remind you that in just four months, we've made two brand-new covid hospitals in Krusevec and Belgrade. It is all an indicator of how strong Serbia is and how strong it is, and by mass immunisation of the population, we will put ourselves in a position to get out of this crisis as soon as possible and to focus on strengthening and raising Serbia's capacity at all levels. The state has also shown determination in the fight against organised crime and that is what will remain at the top of the list of priorities. We sent a clear message that Serbia is a strong and safe country where there are no protected ones. And finally, Mr. Minister, I would just like to say that this Parliament and the MPs in it will always be a partner and ally in every action that is on the benefit of the Republic of Serbia and of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You will have our sincere support for every move that will help Serbia to be better and more successful in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3032	The word is made by MP Goran Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3033	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, before I say anything new or anything that my predecessors have not spoken about today's two agreements, I must congratulate and express my gratitude to all the security services, the interior ministry, the National Security Council and everyone who participated in this action and everyone who worked on such a difficult and demanding task, and we know how demanding and difficult it is to do this one result, and that is what brings the faith back to the citizens of Serbia and to the country and to our country and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Let us remember when we spoke in the formation of the government and when setting policy goals for the next period, one of the six pillars and the most important principles was the fight against crime and corruption and organised mafia. This, Minister, has shown us that we are ready to face the most difficult challenges, and certainly the fight against crime and corruption is one of the most difficult. In addition to all these things that have happened and one of our colleagues said that we don't remember in history that we've had difficult challenges and moments and that this is how we deal with them. What is very important and important, the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Mladenvac comment that we do not stop at this, that we are all going all the way together and that you know that you have the absolute support of every MP and this Parliament and the public to bring down, to the end, everything that has been a great monster of our country and our society. Now I would return only briefly to say about the first agreement concerning co-operation for the Kingdom of Lesota, mentioning as a small country, a large country, a large number of inhabitants, a small number of inhabitants. That didn't even measure it. It is an internationally recognised country, a member of the United Nations, which has shown courage and shown how much it cares about international law, regardless of whether it will have certain pressures, not whether it will have, will have them for sure, but had them, but was most important for it to respect international law and United Nations resolutions. Because of this agreement, great gratitude for withdrawing the recognition of independence, so-called “independence. ” the Republic of Kosovo. As far as Serbia is concerned, this is just, I'd say, a little sign and a thank you and everything we need to do for what Lesotto did for us. As far as this second agreement is concerned about migrants, when it comes to the mention of migrants, that is what I say in particular causes one emotion and people follow Parliament and monitor the events and our discussions and speak and have already called me several with a request to see and discuss the subject, because the migrant crisis has escalated in 2015, but it lasts much longer, there is a colleague quite right. Since the beginning of the migrant crisis, Mladenovac has been in focus somehow, because from the first moment on, there was the possibility that one of the gathering centres for migrants would be in Mladenov, Mali Vrbica, in the city we like to say – the gate of Šumadija, the gates of Belgrade, the only spa on the territory of the city of Belgrade, with Kosmaj, with all these historical and cultural sights. The whole region, not only the Mladen Man, but Topola, the Arangelovac, we have somehow fought for this thing not to happen without being good hosts and being what Serbia was in this migrant crisis, human and against all these unfortunate people, not abusing their misfortune. Why am I saying this now and why did I want to say it? This is because some political parties and MPs from the previous assembly have tried to exploit and campaign exactly for the migrant crisis, with the fact that the migrants will come to Mladenovac, and that a complete Mladenovac and that region will move out because of everything that is happening with us. Of course, there is no truth in that, of course it is an abuse, such as abuse and this great co-demnity in which Serbia has shown that it is dealing with great problems and great troubles and I can say that we are, not to repeat my colleagues, but to say that we are the most convincingly best in both Europe and the world, I would say, both accidents and tragedies. I hope that as far as migrants are concerned, this agreement with the Federal Republic of Macedonia will define clearly many things and that this agreement will make it impossible for the great flow of migrants into our country, because not to forget that paradox for migrants to come from the European Union and leave, they want to go to the European Union, and that all the burden and all the problems, not setting up wires or barriers or walls, are carried by the Republic of Serbia. I sincerely hope that this agreement will only further improve the security of our citizens, that we will enable our services, and our security services and all the people who deal with this problem, to solve these problems completely differently and more easily, and that once and for all in this Parliament, here, now and publicly, we will put an end to one of these centres being in Mali Vrbica, where we hope that after the introduction of the regular military deadline, which I am for, and I see also the majority of citizens and Mladenvec and Serbia, and that Vrbica will once again be a place to train and defend the city of Belgrade, as it once was, to the pride the citizens of Mladen and citizens of Serbia. Of course there is no dilemma whether I will support in the day of voting all these agreements, they are absolutely in the interest of all of us, above all in the safety and life of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3034	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3035	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the esteemed leadership of the National Assembly, respected ministers with their fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, at today's Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about two very important agreements. These agreements concern defence policies, security policies, which are agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Lesota in the area of defence and between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the area of combat, i.e. preventing migrant smuggling. As far as the Agreement with the Kingdom of Lesotto is concerned, we must bear in mind that this is a typical agreement, a typical international contract. Lesotto is a friendly country, she's very close to us, she's helped us a lot in Interpol, and she's also helped us because she's withdrawn the recognition of independence so-called "independence." Kosovo. Lesotto is a remote country, Lesotto is a small country, it can be said that the island is on land, or one enclave within the South African Republic, but Lesotto is a country that has a tradition, which is internationally recognised in the framework of international or public law and is good for the Republic of Serbia to develop as best relations with the Kingdom of Lesota, of course and other interested friendly countries. As far as this agreement is concerned, it concerns, above all, military-technical cooperation, military-medical but also military-economic co-operation, which is an excellent incentive for our military dedicated industry, for our doctors who are often in Africa on peace missions, who are top-notch in the world, one of the best in their business. Of course, we must bear in mind that we are a military neutral country and that our goal is to work together with both countries in the West and with countries in the East. When it comes to the fight against migrant smuggling, and as regards this Agreement with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, we must bear in mind that we have already achieved one significant co-operation and significant police co-operation and that we already have several signed agreements with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, especially when it comes to the fight against migrant smuggling, or when it comes to organised crime or other types of crime, such as violent crime. The agreement with the Republic of Northern Macedonia allows us to warn each type of crime. The area of Northern Macedonia is affected by the migrant crisis and when we look at the map of the entire Southeast Balkans, via Greece, Bulgaria, Northern Macedonia, all of these are areas that have simply been hit since 2015 by illegal migration. Often, these migrants cross the borders of the Republic of Serbia and move further towards Western Europe, which is often their ultimate goal. Among those migrants, what is this security risk? What's the challenge? Among these migrants are often very good people, hardworking people, working people, often learned people are intellectuals. We have an example of Syrian doctors who once studied in Belgrade, in the 1970s and 1980s. Again, on the other hand, some potential terrorists can be found there. Let's just think of France, just remember Austria. So to understand this phenomenon of terrorism, it is best to consult the greatest experts, world-renowned terrorism experts. One of them is certainly Dragan Simenovic, who gives an excellent definition of terrorism. It reads – a more dimensional, political phenomenon of modern terrorism can theoretically be defined as the complex form of organised group and rare individual or institutional political violence marked not only by the frightening brachy physical and psychological methods, but also by sophisticated technological methods of political struggle usually in times of political and economic crisis, and rarely by conditions of economic and political stability of a society systematically trying to achieve great goals in a morbidly spectacular way, and not by appropriate conditions, primarily in the social situation of historical opportunities of those who as a political strategy and fulfil it. This socially jeopardizing opus of this terrorism, this modern political problem includes and a threat to force within the framework of intense psychological propaganda, Internet abuse for terrorist purposes, kidnapping, blackmail, psychophysical abuse, or torture, assassination, sabotage, diversions, suicide attacks, individual and mass political killings, and the intensity of rare exposure to real and potential political opponents, and more often over representatives of the system and innocent victims. As a form of individual, not legitimate, illegal and not institutional violence, modern terrorism is always turned against a state. It is precisely from this large but also serious definition of Dragan Simenovic, our greatest terrorism expert, that we can extract fear as a basic element of terrorism. Also in his Latin name, or root - terror, terrorism. And for the execution of these crimes of terrorist acts, as well as the conduct of terrorist activities to carry out terrorist crimes, we can understand that a small group of people can carry out such acts. That's what our people would say, looking for a needle in a haystack. That is why these agreements are important, so it is important that our security services, that our state cooperate with both countries in the region on security and with Interpol and with Frontescu and with the EU and with many other world powers. This is exactly what the importance of all these agreements of one wise policy by Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is about. Alexander Vukic is leading this policy in the most responsible way possible. Let us remember that some representatives of certain extremely right, extreme left organizations have previously commented on this migrant crisis. Let's just remember how that fascist, the most disgusting fascist, Bosko Obradovic, commented on the migrants, what he said about them all. Let's just remember that famous experiment of his when he mixed fluid or water with some black liquid. He thus tried to put all migrants in the same basket through Nazi methods. On the other hand, we have extreme left ideas, ideologies, like those obstructive organisations such as "We don't strangle Belgrade" that are completely ignored when it comes to this problem. Unlike all of them, Aleksandar Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, has been cautiously treating all migrants, protecting our citizens and respecting the human rights of these migrants. We respect all European declarations and conventions and UN conventions and declarations on human rights. This is a responsible, serious policy. I would also like to say that since the area is very similar to that of congratulating Prime Minister Alexander Vulin, BIA Director Bratislava Gasic and President Aleksandar Vukic for the arrest of Veljko Belivuk, so-called. He says Nevolje and his organized criminal groups, or gangs, because we have thus shown that we are fully determined to deal with organized crime in our country. But as a security expert, there's one thing I have to notice, this isn't just about an organized crime group called the Great Trouble. I think it's a criminal organization. That's very important, because criminal organisations are often the higher and more dangerous level, they are more complex and have more serious political goals that often go hand in hand with terrorism. Just imagine that you in this organized crime group find a sniper and not just one sniper but more snipers of which is one sniper who can break through armor. So, such a caliber, such production that he can break through the armor, that he can break through the vest, the vehicle, or the wall. What's that gonna do to some regular organized criminal group or some low-level drug dealers? Who's this sniper for? How are the assassinations going? It's clear, over the sniper. Snipers are used for assassination. Who are the targets? Top state officials, ladies and gentlemen. Those who fight organized crime. Let's just remember that some of the obscenities of the newspaper were drawing various cartoons where our president was being targeted, targeted at the chest, and the other side was being aimed at a sniper. The message is clear. It's clear here who the target was. It's all clear here. That's why, Mr. President, Alexander Wolf, you have the support of all of us. The entire people of Serbia are with you, and I am sure that, not only with the malt, as you have announced, you will completely crush all organised criminal groups and criminal organisations in this country. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3036	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Radosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3037	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, honourable ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, at the very beginning, if you will allow me, I would like to remind which countries have withdrawn recognition of Kosovo's independence. A unilateral declaration of recognition of Kosovo is contrary to UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 1999. Many countries have seen and withdrew Kosovo's recognition, among them, because of Serbian citizens to remind themselves, because of the people's MPs to remind themselves, Sierraleone, Nauru, Ghana, Togo, the Central African Republic, the Republic of Palau, Madagascar, Solomon Islands, Suriname, Granada, the Union of chambers, Burundi, Commonwealth, Dominicana, Sao Tome and Principe, Liberia, Guinea-Bissau, Papua New Guinea and the Kingdom of Lesotto. I deliberately listed the Kingdom of Lesotto as the last, but it was not the last state to withdraw recognition of Kosovo's independence, it did so in 2018. Good relations between Serbia and the Kingdom of Lesota that we have today and today are related to today's bill of law, namely the agreement that is before us today, with regard to the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of defence. The restoration of good relations with the countries of the African continent is of great importance to our country. The Kingdom of Lesotto is a full member of the UN and in 2018, it withdrew absolutely all decisions that could be interpreted by recognising Kosovo's independence. Their view is that the issue of Kosovo's statehood is premature, that Kosovo's status can only be defined when negotiations are completed, i.e. the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. When both sides agree by then, Kosovo is an unbreakable part of Serbia. This Agreement between the Kingdom of Lesotto and Serbia contains certain provisions. The primary objective of this law is the Agreement, meaning co-operation in the field of defence, military-economic co-operation, scientific and technical co-operation, military education, military medicine and veterinary, as well as in other areas. Otherwise, the Kingdom of Lesotto, as we heard it is located in the south of the African continent, numbers about two million inhabitants, it was the English colony until 1966, the official language is next to the native language and English language. The next bill is a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating migrant smuggling. Some people see the migrant crisis as a good chance of making money by smuggling migrants. Serbia and Northern Macedonia are in such a geographical position as to represent a door to Europe for migrants. We show, in the case of the migrant crisis, how human we are, how organized we are, and how much we care about the safety of our citizens. The most important thing is to keep everyone together, to keep security on a high level, and to behave with dignity. But we also expect migrants to respect our country and to respect our laws. Every threat to the safety of our citizens, the state has to react. Serbia and Northern Macedonia have excellent relations. This agreement on co-operation in the field of combating migrant smuggling will make our co-operation even better. The aim of this agreement is to increase the security of our citizens. The Republic of Serbia with Northern Macedonia has so far concluded a number of international agreements, also having excellent police co-operation and information exchange. At the Tabanovci border crossing, we also have mixed border police patrols. Thanks to the president, Alexander Vukic, Serbia is also highly appreciated abroad today, and wherever our name is mentioned. She is a signator of more and more international agreements with different countries. Why is that? Because these countries see Serbia as their serious partner, which is making rapid progress. So two days ago, the president, Aleksandar Vukic, also received Foreign and European Affairs Minister, the Slovak Republic, Ivan Korčok, where he expressed his gratitude that Slovakia, as an EU member, insisted on the existence of territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia, by not recognising Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence. Co-operation between countries is growing, both economically and in all other areas, and one of them is that Slovakia is helping Serbia on the road to Serbia becoming an EU member. Mr. Minister, I must point out that I was addressed by Serbs with KIM, you know, you were there for many years, complaining that Albanians were illegally taking away their property. They also serve to sue the deceased who was a Serb and that the Albanian said that during this period of time, while he was alive, that he had bought some of the property from him, but had not passed on to himself, two witnesses of the same Albanian found, they testified in favour, and a dead man was assigned a representative. Of course, it goes into the hand of the Shiplar, goes into the hand of the Albanian, and whoever needs to get, the heir of the country, is left without that country. I appeal, Mr. Minister, to help, to help the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, to appeal to the international community, not to do these things to Serbs, that this is not happening because their intention is obvious. At the very end, I would like to, Mr. Minister, support and give absolute support to our President, Alexander Vukic, to you and to all state bodies in the fight against organised crime, because no one has the right to endanger the security of Serbian citizens, no one has the right to endanger the security of our president, his family and all the families living in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3038	Thank you. The People's Messenger Adam Shukalo has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3039	Thank you, President Dacic. Dear Ministers of the Interior, Mr. Vulin, in my discussion today, I will refer to only one of these two agreements, since the topic is certainly too broad, so this time will be enough to say something about this agreement, which may not have been said by my distinguished colleagues so far. But first, let's go from the very beginning, given that the focus went somehow to migrants and to remind ourselves that this is a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking. Human trafficking as a form of crime is a much broader term than fighting trafficking in migrants and all that is happening, especially as defined in this agreement that the most focused issue is the fight against child trafficking. For this reason, this agreement and the co-operation between the two sovereign states in this sense is much more important, and these concrete forms of the agreement which are a higher level of co-operation that has so far existed have institutional power, since we also have defined the roles of the agreements themselves. And that is what is the main benefit of this agreement, as well as the improvement of overall co-operation between Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia. At the very beginning, what Minister Vulin himself said, we need to distinguish, if we are already focusing on this topic, on two terms -- we need to distinguish refugees from migrants. Unfortunately, over the past 20-30 years, the Republic of Serbia has become the second house for numerous refugees from the former Yugoslavia and those refugees who once called themselves no longer refugees in the Republic of Serbia, but are citizens of the Republic of Serbia who exercise all possible rights and all other benefits that every other citizen of the Republic of Serbia has achieved. What is the issue of migrants' problems is, in any case, something, too, why the Republic of Serbia has risen above the region and shown one and a human face, but also a sense of security, statehood, strong institutions, that someone who would try to abuse a passing household for people who have such a difficult destiny and who today we call migrants that they can't joke with institutions, that they can't do anything in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Our institutions, primarily the Ministry of the Interior, but also the Ministry of Defence that you, Mr. Vulin, have also had a lot of obligations on this matter, because it is a very specific role – you must be human and you want to be human, but you must protect your citizens, your property, your institutions and you must not give anyone a pardon. For this very reason, I would now like to deny all those movements and madnesss that existed in Serbia in public space here, that migrants all over Serbia, especially in areas that are passive, which are due to urbanization, because of other things, have simply happened so that people are gravitating towards larger cities, many have gone abroad, that these neighborhoods will just be inhabited by migrants and that here many citizens will get these migrants and that practically, as they are, I don't even know what to call it but here, I will say that word – opponents of SNS and Alexander Vukic, said that our president is the sponsor of even these stories and that some secret agreements signed that will mark it. Here, the minister can certainly answer that, and I don't think we have a dozen such examples that any of these people who may have come early, say, from Syria, given that the former Yugoslavia has always had good co-operation with Syria, for example, how many citizens who have been here for the past 10 years since we've been a larger part of that last decade, and we've been in power and we have some responsibility, to see how many of these citizenships have been? I think it was maybe a dozen. And to break all these illusions, so no one settles, no plans exist. There is a human face of Serbia that needs these people, given that we have had bad fates here, to respond humanly. But we don't want to be, as the minister said, parking for migrants and we don't want to be EU change in that sense of saying that someone's playing with us here. Therefore, the seriousness of institutions, responsibility, security for citizens, but respect for international obligations, co-operation with countries in the region, in this case with Northern Macedonia. Speaking of Northern Macedonia, I am very pleased, since we all have safe friends and relatives in northern Macedonia, especially many Serbs, thank God, living in northern Macedonia, which is the co-operation and the Serbian issue in northern Macedonia increasingly better and better standing over some past time period. I will remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the region that the president of the Republic of Serbia is the patron and someone who is somehow behind the idea and the project, the Serbian Cultural Centre in Skopje. Also, the agreements that existed here earlier and going towards that it is no longer only a matter of Serbian schools, but that it is now an electoral item, the Serbian language, in every school in Macedonia, are precisely the proactiveness of our institutions in the sense that Serbs in northern Macedonia are not assimilated to the majority community. Serbs living in northern Macedonia have their identity anyway, have their own place, as every Macedonian who comes to the territory of the Republic of Serbia or lives here or does something has a special place in the heart of every Serb, with his identity, with his culture and with everything else. The list is under way in Northern Macedonia. The Serb community, the Republic of Serbia, is helping, but more importantly, to help in every sense, that the assimilation that is present, unfortunately, in northern Macedonia, at this important institutional moment, which is the moment of the census, to support the Serb community in order for the Serbian issue in northern Macedonia to get the support it needs from its country of origin, which is the Republic of Serbia. On that behalf, lived Serbia and every good.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3040	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. I would like to remind you that you have nine minutes left for the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3041	That'll do. Dear President, honourable ministers with an associate, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, both agreements that are in front of us today are very important and I think, above all, Minister Vulin pointed out in his opening address the essence and what they represent for us as a country and I believe that after him and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups have explained, as well as now, after almost four or five hours of debate, I think we have gone through all the details of this agreement. I, as a People's MP, will point out that, of course, I will support these agreements and that in the day of voting I will vote for them, but Mr. Vulin, I want to use your presence for some topics which are crucial to the Republic of Serbia and which are happening today and these days and which are current, which we have been talking about for weeks, months ago, and for God and years, and these topics concern the security of President Alexander Vukic and his family. I agree that the agreement with Northern Macedonia and the trade in migrants and their lives, the abuses that are taking place, is a very important topic, but it is important not only because we regulate and that part and we try to ensure everyone's basic rights, but also because this topic is also about many parties or individuals representing the former regime and today some of the opposition has been used for petty politics and collecting some cheap political points. I just want to make it clear from this place that everything that represents cheap demagogy, an attempt to make anything that is good for our country honest and dissuasive, will not go away with the citizens of Serbia, who clearly recognize and see these things and show them in every election that they do not want and will never support such a policy again. For the simple reason that the people represented today by Dragan Gilas, as part of the opposition, when they were able to do something for the citizens of Serbia, did nothing but do for themselves, close people and their pockets. Mr. Vulin, I want to thank you first for two things. I will start from the one that may be less important to the citizens, as regards the shooting of Vozdovec from that air rifle where a student at Janko Vesenovic Elementary School was hit. By the way, it's the basic school that I went to, the neighborhood where I live, and unfortunately when that incident happened, many rushed, rushed to abuse it and connect it to the current events of those days. Thank you for being quick, if we're going to define it that way, and we've resolved and thus calmed down first of all the parents who are very shaken, because in that area there were no such incidents, and that end applies to a quieter end, and that school for one of the better at Vozdovac. As far as other matters are concerned, Mr. Vulin, I must say that you were up-to-date, because I seem to have referred to me at the end of last year as a MP and a question and a notice, and it concerns the safety of President Alexander Vukic and his family, and you have answered me in an express time. I had no idea that only a month later, but there is not a month after that, because your response since 12 January is already a situation in place and that everything President Aleksandar Vucic has talked about, and as one of the main priorities of the new Serbian government, we will have concrete results. All that was happening last week reminded all of us that no one is stronger than the state, no one is stronger than the security of Serbian citizens, that it is for the Serbian government, but, above all, President Aleksandar Vukic, priority number one, and that we must take care of it in every place and at every moment. However, what concerns me particularly, and some of my previous colleagues, speakers, the MPs have drawn attention to this, is the relativisation of the threats in which President Aleksandar Vukic and his family and from this hall, but also at many conferences, statements, press statements, we warned that no one should easily understand when on some social networks people are calling for the murder of President Aleksandr Vukic. No one can easily understand when certain media are flirting and provoking with such clear illusions that President Aleksandr Vukic needs to be directed enough and that everything will be solved in this way. I took the opportunity to discuss it yesterday, and I'm that newspaper. That weekly showed, but since you're here today, I believe you may be more professional than I am, and this sniper is concerned. So not so long ago in November 2019, a weekly on his front page had a black sniper pointed at President Alexander Vukic. I'm not an expert in weapons, I don't know if it's the same rifle or anything like that that was found during the arrest and breaking of this criminal group, but it turns out that everything we warned about at the time was not an accident and that there were elements that we all wondered whether Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic was safe and whether his family was safe, whether he was safe and Milica, and Danilo, and whether he was safe and the Vulcan who was three and a half years old, whose murder was not so rarely called on social networks. For the sake of truth, how far they have gone in their threats and how boldly they show the cartoon that was published yesterday, also in a media that is under the direct management of Dragan Gilas, where again one sniper is directed at President Aleksandr Vukic. If nothing else this is a harsh provocation and at least a tasteless send-off with a topic where the state deals with the mob, when a sniper is found, this is how to provoke it at least, let's define it so, not professionally. I'd have a lot more to say on the subject, but I'll stick to these polite terms, but it's clear to every citizen in Serbia that this is an open call for that sniper to be used. Given that there are only two minutes left, I will conclude slowly that all of this that we are talking about today is not an accident and last night a phone call came to our party's headquarters, where it threatened President Aleksandr Vukic, his son Danil Vukic and Deputy Mayor of Belgrade Goran Vesic. So, the atmosphere created by Dragan Gilas with its media in its ailing desire to get to the authorities, to return to power and to continue with its wealth, led Alexander Vukic and his family to become legitimate targets and it is absolutely unacceptable. The last statements made by him and "Ljoticvac" Bosko Obradovic, as well as Marinika Tepic, who insisted that Serbia become a genocide people, show us that they now aim to bring Alexander Vukic and his family into the same relationship with the mafia so that today, tomorrow, God forbid, if anything happens to them, the people thought "well, they deserved it because they were part of the mafia". Well, unlike many who today form part of the opposition, they had nothing to do with the mob or will ever have. I just want to tell you, Mr. Vulin, that I'm telling you, and I'm done with it, so just keep going in this fight that you started on President Alexander Vukic's initiative, because from a safer, better, better Serbia, there's no more honorable task to create for us, for generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3042	Thank you. Before I ask a representative of the motionor, who has otherwise applied, I see that there are also representatives of the MPs. The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3043	Thank you, Mr. President. I will use the time of the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group and I will not leave much of today's topic. We have also received an official translation of the questions asked by fellow Camberi, whom we have already discussed today. He is as authentically rude as the question he raised. What is very important, however, is that counterpart Kamberi had a precise ambition to address representatives of the international community from the Serbian parliament in Albanian language, pointing to, from his point of view, some non-European Serbia. I will really use this time to say that Ministers Vulin was a subject and is characterized as someone who uses hate speech, calling them "siptars" by saying that I have to point out, as much as they don't like it today, before they reach this European and international level, before they start dreaming about "greater Albania" before they realize that in English, Albania is called "Albania", they insisted that we call them "Sceptari" because they belong to "Schipni", which is a literal translation and the wording name of the country that is their home. So it's not our fault that we didn't follow their development however they experienced it, nor is it today's hate speech to call them that way. I don't know if they had the ambition to commend you and President Vukic or insult you. Comparing you with Aleksandar Rankovic from the corner is not an insult, it could also be commendable. But what is inadmissible is a sentence he said, which is: "This did not happen even in the time of the regime of Slobodan Milosevic who killed, raped and deported, but called them Albanians." He neither killed nor raped nor deported, nor any of the crimes they imputed to him, and therefore handed him over to The Hague, primarily to the Serbs, proved before the false tribunal. So notorna is a lie and must not happen in the Serbian parliament all this is said. This play Mr. Cambery had yesterday in the Serbian Parliament was obviously agreed, a circus that he designed very well, not announcing that he would speak in his native language and thus mutilated all of us so that we could not act ad hoc. But he also said several brutal threats. Prior to those threats, he said he did not know what would happen if some Pandan Vulina, whatever it was, woke up in Pristina and called Serbs "skima". Whatever they call us, it would have been easier for us, Comrade Cambery, if you had called us names of evil than you have slaughtered us, kidnapped us, removed our organs, if we didn't know today where the graves were, destroyed the cemetery, kidnapped the property, kidnapped the land, and yet you expect us to confess all of this under the pressure of the international community and legalize everything you've done. Well, this is no longer an insult to the Serbian people. This is an attack on the sovereignty of this state in the middle of parliament. Finally, says counterpart Kamberi, who I no longer know is the president of the Albanian people, because that he spoke as a representative of the Albanian people had room for yesterday in the day in which the social map is being discussed, to refer to the social cases of the Albanian national minority in southern Serbia. A large number of social assistance users by this country he calls both non-European and non-democratic, a country he calls some state that is oppressing national minorities, a country where the national minority has been persecuting the Serb people 30 years back, a country in which the national minority since 1904 has its own terrorist organisation. They used to be called snakes, so they were called like this, and they were called that, so they ended up killing UČK, so they're still kind of legal for God's sake today, and now they're someone who killed Slobodan Milosevic, and he's innocent, Ramush Haradinaj, who threatens Pristina to stay in power. I don't know how to experience this anymore except some parallel world, like I'm in the middle of some matrix. Finally, he says -- to you, Minister Vulin and President Vukic, I remind you that Albanians also called the arnauts at the time of Cubrilovic, but did not obey. We will not subdue ourselves either, it is for nothing -- a colleague of Camberi, a Balkan peace and unity and mutual respect has no alternative, so your fall has no alternative -- said a respected colleague, Kamberi, and then referred the question to the prime minister of Serbia that she had answered correctly whether the terms - the scepters would be in any official use because it was a terrible earthquake and endangering him? It's more than a shame, it's more of a threat, it's more of a national minority speech. This is, I'm afraid, the speech of someone who clearly sends us a message that in the middle of the Serbian Parliament we need to be a minority in relation to Kamber's big plans for great Albania and the drive to call them Albanians that when they're in the Western Balkans tomorrow, they have everything they've come up with long ago that we're going to kidnap that term and eventually bow down to them. That's why I reacted to the discussion when I said that the President of the Assembly couldn't unfortunately assume what he was saying, and that Mr. Cambery had not deliberately delivered this translation in time because the President of the Assembly would not have allowed him to speak in this way in the Serbian parliament, but he did allow him to speak in his native language, because by all those European officials whom he had addressed to Camberi, this circus was designed, either and how badly to show the picture that someone in parliament could not speak in his native language. What kind of trap we fell into the hundredth time as a state in front of spin masters who are based on classical spin, remember Račka, made this artificial creation that today would be accepted as an official, so now congratulations on Statehood Day are being sent to us by imposing on us how and whether or not we should confess or not to admit something that has become self-proclaimed, which has been detached, which the Serbs have paid in blood and that I don't count on it anymore, because I don't even have the strength from the position of the woman to emotionally endure all of what I've read, heard and seen. A reminder for all of us, honourable fellow MPs in parliament in Serbia, no matter whether we are Serbs or belong to national minorities, we must recognize such traps in time. Can't happen to Camber and his family. It's no different than those who wore a uniform in 1999, I have full responsibility for what I said, because if this were different, it wouldn't be his speech. Once in our lives, we have to stop criticizing each other, especially at the moment when someone sitting across the street is sitting on the basis of what we're criticizing each other is profiting from decades ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3044	Thank you. First of all, Snow White, I wasn't there today when you discussed it, but when I give someone my word, I don't judge what he's going to say. The word is based on whether someone has the right to receive the word or not. The Law on the National Assembly, which was adopted in 2010, defined that the MP had the right to speak and to file written documents in the work of the National Assembly in his own language. Personally, I find this provision very inaccurate because what does it mean – in my own language? Is that language actually a language of a national minority or can any of you have any language? Secondly, the same member of the law states that the Secretary-General is required to ensure translation. What does that mean now? Is not having a translator making it impossible for someone to get a word? In 10 years, no one has found it appropriate to operate on this and that's why I asked the Secretary-General yesterday to address the resolution ministry, which has passed a series of laws concerning this area, to clearly determine under which conditions this right is being realized and what it means. This is Mr. Martinovic. He knows that in the systematization of jobs here, we don't have the job of translators for these languages, if someone means that there must be an interpreter here at all times. Secondly, if it implies that this should be done as necessary, then there must be a mechanism that announces that someone will speak in the language that he intends to use, but that means co-operation and co-operation between the MPs and those who are handling the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is the abuse of the right to use something that many national minorities do not have. Here Elvira has been here for many months, and she runs the National Assembly sessions and speaks even in Hungarian and translates what she says. If someone is well-intentioned, we'll always find a solution to the existing problem. Not to get into the essence of what he said, I'm talking about the formal legal part of this problem, and I think it's absolutely below the level of the National Assembly to communicate in this way, that there are lies and, beware, there are worse things, such as comparison with Nazi Germany, comparison with Jews, etc., but this is now, since the question has been addressed to the prime minister, there is also Minister Vulin, who was involved in this issue, although he was more used as a reason to bring out a certain political pamphlet, obviously that Camberio was not even important to translate this into Serbian. It was important for him to say what he wanted to say and think he got something. I think he lost a lot of weight by speaking in Albanian from the Serbian parliament, he denied that Serbia is a state of hate, but rather a state with a high degree of national minority rights, because I am almost certain, not almost, but I am sure that Serbs cannot even be in Albania's parliament first, let alone speak Serbian. I would like to close the subject now, and to discuss the political essence of what has been said, of course, and to discuss. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative, Minister Vulin, to speak to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3045	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the Vice Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, MPs, first to thank you for your patience in being here all the time and in the best way to deny those stupid and offensive stories that there is no parliament, that there are some random, casual people sitting in parliament, that our Parliament has nothing to say. You, or our coalition, have an absolute majority in this House, and disciplinedly comes, speaks, discusses, studies, makes proposals, as if the difference between the government and the opposition is in one voice. That speaks of your respect for the citizens who elected you. I want to thank you for this approach, and I want to thank you for being here, for working so patiently and persistently, for showing the citizens of Serbia that they were right when they voted for you, just like that, and that they were right to choose you and to trust you to decide their fates as well. You decide their fates, you decide my fate, you are more important and powerful than anyone in this country, without you there is no law, no fight against the mafia, no politics, no state. So thank you for treating the high duties entrusted to you by the citizens of Serbia with such dignity. Here we have touched the many lies that were meant to confuse the citizens of Serbia, upset, intimidate, make them react, something ugly, to show that the Serb face is when it comes to ugly faces, that we are a people who are afraid, that we are a people who don't understand, that we are a people who are prone to violence when it's stronger. We're not that. Do you remember when you only listened to 400,000 already populated migrants in southern Serbia, almost populated, somewhere in the Shop, that's where cities are made. It's settled. Bosko Obradović. Done. Four hundred thousand in the middle of Kovid, he says – migrants are driven by buses to a Belgrade fair where they dig a 5G network. It's crazy. You remember all that nonsense, all the lies we had to endure and listen to. Aleksandar Vukic signed an obligation to settle a million migrants in Serbia just as he signed the obligation to recognise Kosovo, so here is eight years, nine years or a step towards recognition. We had to listen to lies, nonsense. All that was done with the idea of causing a conflict, and then on social networks you see a recording of a fight of migrants, the three of them writing below, and you know how the Internet can be not critical, just let go, under it says -- two migrants killing a Serbian boy, no one can report. A beating of three Syrians, all three arrested, nobody killed anyone, or hurt anyone more seriously, but until they arrive, until you report it, until you check it out for an hour. In those hours, you hate to poison who knows how many people who don't even look at the deficits, who don't try to find out what really happened, and then they're ready for violence. You know, fascism always started out very simply doing some popular things that some state didn't want to do and they started talking about how they were going to protect our women, our children, this state doesn't do anything, the state doesn't protect anyone, they're going to go out on the streets like this, they're threatening to tear up the state, and then they end up beating people who say otherwise, who wear glasses. That's how it's gonna be. Once you allow everyone to take what he thinks is justice and the law, then wait for them to come to your house one day, to your home, to bring him down and burn him down. Well, that's how it ends. The state of Serbia is doing its job well. There are now six thousand of them. Where are they? Did you file for asylum? We became our citizens, or thanks to our good, wise policy, which was formulated and implemented by President Vukic, we were and we are a country on the road, but we are not a country in which it remains uncontrollably. One of you asked – how many citizenships have we given? From 2015 to today, we've given the migrants zero. Here's a colleague from Mladnjevac, what kind of Mladnjevac, what kind of camp in Mladenov? Who's going to turn the Selters spa into a camp? You see, these migrants would have to run from the UAE to turn the Selters bath into camp. Who would do that? What kind of nonsense and lies are these? But when it's said in Mladenovac, so they say there's something safe, there must be, they'd like to take our spa, and they'd take advantage of it, and it's not like anyone came or moved in. You are representatives of all of Serbia, all of our country. Most of you are honored and pleased to know you, I know where you come from. Most of you have never seen a migrant in your places where it comes from. The vast majority of you never saw a migrant at home. You know exactly where they're going, you know exactly what municipalities they're in. How many migrants have seen anyone in Chačka? So petitions are coming together against migrants in Chačka. There are no migrants in Chačka, the King, the Kragujevac, no. You know exactly where they go and where they are. The most affected were Belgrade, Subotica, Shid, Obrenovac. These are the parts where there are and where you see them, where you can talk about problems, and if you talk about them in Ruma, you have nothing to talk about, but okay. It is good that we have had this opportunity and that the citizens of Serbia in a live broadcast can hear this simple truth, nothing but simple truth. The security of the President of the Republic and his family was also mentioned here. The safety of the President of the Republic and his family is always at risk of lies first. You're always talking about creating an atmosphere that it's actually the majority of Serbia that would wish that man were gone, that Alexander Vukic and his family were gone. Then all you have to do is come up with a brave individual who will enter the nation's grateful memory by doing what the nation wants him to do. Well, we can't beat him in the election, that's some weird scam, but we can kill him. Yeah, it's your job to do that, and don't stop at that. He's got kids. Don't let his kid survive. And it becomes a legitimate thing, there's something that's almost understood. You showed here the front page of the "Nin" weekly where Alexander Vukic was put in front of a sniper. I was at that fair when it was photographed, visiting the flag gun stand. So it wasn't a random photo. That photo had to be adjusted, it had to be worked on in a photoshop or already some program to get that sniper set up just like that to make the message clear, and it's not the first time, not the last time. And that's what you do every day. That's how it's done. So one day he prepares to come and say: I will do this great task. Don't let me remind you of the history and history of this country, and that at least in this country, every single one of you would have to react to anything political about Alexander Vukic right now. Just a few years ago, a man was killed with a sniper rifle in this country. Just a few years ago. And also to say, this is my opinion, this is my attitude. I know they're gonna attack me, they're always attacking me, it's nothing ordinary. They say that I am doing everything in my own statements to equalize Zoran Djindjic and Alexander Vukic. No, Alexander Vukic cannot compare with Zoran Djindjic, he is more successful and better than Zoran Djindjic has ever been. And I know you can't say two things in Serbian politics. You can't criticize Zoran Djindjic and you can't praise Alexander Vukic. Here's me doing both things, because I know it's true and so it is. And there are no false symmetrys and no false comparisons, there are none. This is about the safety and life of a man and his family. Don't compare it to anything. Just as soon as you don't compare it, but don't put a sniper in front of a picture of a man and give ideas to various idiots who would like to do it, and then we start finding snipers on the streets and then we wonder who they're for. We'll see, the investigation will determine who it is, but I know who many would like it to be, and they are truly suffering that this sniper wasn't used, that we found him too soon, so whoever we found him for and whatever the investigation shows. Unfortunately, we live in a country where these simple truths that I say are very difficult and you will pass through a media hot rabbit and you will be spit on, insulted, humiliated, and you have told only one simple truth – don't put the president of the Republic and his children in front of the sniper. And while you're doing it, sign under it, tell me why you're doing it. Sign and show that the whole of Serbia sees who you are and what you are, where you come from, what your idea is, what your goal is. In this country, if you did it to any other man, you'd be rightly attacked and punished, except when you did it to Alexander Wolfich, then it's okay. Then it's okay. Then, simply, you have the right to do so and it's been done for years. I absolutely refuse to accept that it is possible and I absolutely refuse to be silent about it, and I think it should be punished. You're legislators, maybe one day you'll pass a law that will regulate these things, which will be punished. This can't. Before I move on to what I also want to tell you, I just want to ask all the citizens of Serbia who listen to this picture with that sniper to imagine themselves, their son, their wife, their daughter, sister, under the phrase "I hope to hear the pass of the Wolf" write the name of their three-year-old grandchild and to feel a little bit what it's like to read the name of the creatures that you love most to write for him - three-year-old pastures. That's all I'm asking you Serbian citizens to do, so you can feel it. Here, however you feel, so be it. Let the state go in the direction of what you feel the moment you read - the dead, God damn it. It's disgusting that I'm saying this. I've been in politics a long time, longer than most of you. I've been so long that it's a shame and saying how old we are, many of us here know each other our whole lives. Never has Serbian public, political life been this polluted. There have been many things in this House, but this amount of hatred, the unpunished abominations that can be pronounced has never been, ever, at the time of the greatest conflict. Simply, this crazy hatred has won the right of citizenship and become an acceptable form of behavior, everything is allowed and anything is possible. Please, put your authority, the effort you've shown today, to put this through, to stop, to punish or reason, I don't know, you know better than me, you're smarter than me, but this has got to stop. This sniper must be removed. This one can't be. I waited patiently until the end of my day, or until the end of our session today, waiting for Mr. Cambery to appear. I didn't say a single word about what he said yesterday. I got the translation, I knew what he said, it was translated right away, I waited patiently for him to come to his face, as it was fitting to the MP, what I had to say to him. He didn't come, but I won't miss the chance to say what I mean, I've been here all day waiting for him to come. Everyone has the right to speak in their own language, and I am infinitely proud that everyone has the right to speak in his own language. No matter how many Serbs in Albania or Switzerland, they say, have neither MPs nor can speak in parliament, I would never deny it to my countrymen, the Shiptars, in my parliament, ever. Shiptar has the right to speak in his own language, and I respect him for it, and I will always fight to have the right to speak in his own language. It's not exactly correct that he didn't allow us to translate, but that's what he says. There's no need for me to answer to personal insults. Compared to Gerling's insult, but in the first place, he insults the victims of Gering. You know, in a serious world of World War II examples, from the Holocaust, they're rarely used, especially this easily and unfounded, because that's how you insult all of Gerling's victims. If I'm Guerring, who didn't kill anyone, who didn't send anyone to a concentration camp, who didn't hurt anyone, then that Goering from World War II isn't such a bad man. These are the conclusions that world anti-fascist organizations absolutely do not allow to get away with. It says how easy words are used that shouldn't be used. You know, I'm not going to compare Mr. Cambery to Shaban Poluž, leader of the Bali Kombetar, ballistics, ally of the Germans, of course, the killer, the bloodlock, I'm not going to compare him to him. I'm sorry he never publicly convicted him, but, look, I think he's publicly convicted, so he'll say if I'm wrong. So, I'm not comparing it with the Shiptar fascist, I want to compare it to the Esad Pasha Toptani, the Shiptar who wanted to make a Federation with Serbia, the Shiptar who wanted those two peoples to be the closest allies in the Balkans. I want to compare it with Shiptar Esad-Pasha Toptani, who was in power where the Serb army retired in 1915, there were bread and fire, there were shelters and goodness. With such a Shiptar, I want to compare it and I don't want to, of course, just to say no to that comparison, you know, Esad Pasha Toptani was killed in Paris when he was supposed to sign an agreement with Serbia, he was the Shiptar who asked to be buried in a Serb military cemetery. That's the kind of Shiptar I want to compare to. I don't understand what's wrong with calling a nation what my grandfather called it, my great-grandfather, my great-grandfather. One of you rightly remembered that I spent several years of my life in Kosovo and Metohija and with Serbs and with the Shiptars. It is very difficult to find a Serb who does not say - Shiptar, such as it is very difficult to find a Shipar who does not say - Shiptar. It's simple and you can't ban only Serbs in the world from speaking their own language. That's our language. You know, Germans aren't Germans. They're German. The Slovenes call them Germans because in the old days when they met, it is one of the explanations, they did not understand each other, so the Slovenes said - these are silent, the Germans, because they do not understand each other. Well, they'd have more reason to say this is offensive, but they never said it because it's so natural to speak in their own language. You know, in the 20th century, the Shiplars changed their name three times, which is legitimate. After the break of the Ottoman Empire, they said -- we're no longer Arnauts, that's a Turkish word, it doesn't describe us, we have our own language, we're Shipari, we're our country of Scipery. Legally, completely acceptable. Otherwise, their literature and grammar followed this very change. They don't write for me Arnauts. They write for me. All right, the Serbs got that word out of their language, literally without translation, saying it the way it is. Serbs, Hungarians, Turks say -- to Vienna, only those three peoples. It's a translation. We didn't even translate here. This is where we said-- how do you say it is. To this day we call them that and see anger. Interestingly, a few weeks ago, Pardogan held a press conference, had some summit with Prime Minister Ram and said - Arnauti, because in Turkish today it is said - Arnaut, and the country is called Arnauti. Wait, now how is that not offensive? Why don't you get mad at Erdogan, why don't you ask Erdogan to stop calling you Arnautima, because you won't call yourself Arnautima, you're Shiptar? Why don't you get mad at him and get mad at me? Why are you angry at all Serbs just because they speak their own language? This is a struggle for Serbs to have the right to speak their language as they speak it. So, if I say -- an Albanian doctor, an Albanian terrorist, it's not an insult, and if I say -- a Cypriot doctor, it's an insult. Wait, guys, what are we even arguing about here and arguing about? About the rights of my people, the Serbian people to speak Serbian as they are spoken in Serbian. No offense, I respect the Shiparas endlessly, I respect their history, civilization, tradition, I have a serious problem with, say, the Serbs on KIM territory under the UN's provisional administration, in accordance with Resolution 1244, not using the term - Metohija. You must not say Kosovo and Metohija, only Kosovo. How come now? Who thought of that? Mr. Cambery says he doesn't use the official term - Albanians. What kind of service? Who decided that? In the dictionary "Matice of Serbian", which is slightly more educated than me and him says -- Shiptar -- synonym for Albanian, Albanian -- synonym for Shiptar. What's the problem? You want to deny us, rewrite us, write down "The Mother of Serbia" to let you write us a language perhaps some other, better. There's no hate or insult. It's no shame being a Shiptar, on the contrary, you should be proud to be a Shiptar, but it's a shame that you think you can tell Serbs how to speak. It's a shame to bring a media harangus against our court because he hasn't ruled in the first degree, I'm sorry, it's not even a judicial verdict yet, because he hasn't ruled as Cambery and the "women in black" think. Who are you to decide what the court in the Republic of Serbia will judge and how will it judge? You don't know yet, the verdict isn't judicial. How does no one, no judicial organization has called to say – if you wait, let go, slowly, the judge is independent, independent, has the right to his position? Everybody's quiet. Everyone's letting our court run a harangus. Who can criticize our court and threaten Strasbourg in Serbia's independent and free state? I will forgive the personal insults, but the abominations that Free Milosevic is a mass murderer and that my people are genocide will not. To compare Alexander Vukic, to introduce himself into the context of violence and murder. I won't let that happen. I'm not gonna let those lies happen. And I will not allow it to go so quietly to the courts in Serbia to decide what they will and how they will judge, to put pressure on our judiciary and that no one will say a word. Mr. Cambery has not made a good journey from this House, from this high house. I respect all the Shiptars in this country, I respect his constituents, I look forward to meeting them, I look forward to helping if I can as Home Secretary make everyone feel better and safer. When we arrest and break the Ship's drug gang, do you think the Shipars are safer and safer than they were? Like when you break any drug gang every human being is better and safer. So, no offense, no hate, but there are also insults and hatreds in determining to the Serbs how they will speak and what they will say. For the last time, just to look back, "skia" is not a term used by Serbs for itself, but rather a "skia" term that means approximately a pig. Excuse me, Shiptar means - a man from Cipre, not an animal, no insult. So don't compare those two things at all, because they can't compare. That's your name, I respectfully call you that. If in your grammar, in your literature you change the name of the state, the people and you start to refer to each other as the English version of your country, the language is living matter, and the Serbs will probably start calling you that. But until then, gentlemen, no offense to the word Shiptar. The Shiptar is synonym for the Albanian, the Albanian is synonym for Shiptar and stop teaching us how to speak and write. Write as written, read as you speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-10-0.u3046	Thank you. Since there are no more registered lists, I would like to thank Minister Alexander Vulin and his associates for today's work and remind myself that in two weeks, we will have another most likely session of the National Assembly, where two agreements will also appear to be from the interior ministry's jurisdiction regarding Frontex and about another agreement concerning Northern Macedonia, so we will see each other again with similar topics in two weeks. I would also like to add, for your record, what MP Radosavljevic was talking about – Africa has 54 countries that are members of the United Nations. Prior to this state action, 26 countries have not recognised Kosovo to withdraw recognition, and unfortunately 28 countries have recognised Kosovo. Now the situation, including Lesotto, has changed. Now 37 countries do not recognise Kosovo, and 17 countries recognise Kosovo, it is our country's historic success. Let me just once again thank Lesota and other African states in this one act and as someone said - they have done a lot for us and we need to fight back in a friendly way, among other things, through the realization of such agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, since there are no more reports on the lists, nor are there more rapporteurs of the committee or representatives or president of the parliamentary groups, I am concluding a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 2 and 3 of the agenda. Tomorrow we move forward with authentic interpretations, two points of the agenda. If there are no additional ones, and there should be no amendments to the Social Card Act, these authentic interpretations are duly applied to regulations not to submit amendments either, so expect tomorrow afternoon after the discussion is completed to be a day of voting. I thank you again to the ministers and all of you MPs. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that there are 137 MPs present at this time, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
