ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 123 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when adopting the minutes and setting out the agenda, shall exist if most of the total number of MPs is present at the sitting. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 152 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, does any of the representatives, i.e. authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9949	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have a few questions. The first question I refer to the Commission for Missing Persons of the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- as long as it has arrived with the discovery of the remains of the abducted and murdered Bosniaks in the north. I refer the second question to the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, as well as to the Ministry of Justice what they have done and what will they do to ensure that families whose members have been kidnapped in the North receive the status of civilian victims of war? On Friday, October 22nd, 29 years since the abduction of 16 citizens of the Republic of Serbia of Bosniak nationality were completed. So these are the citizens of our country, the citizens of our country, who came from their homes, from the Republic of Serbia, were passing through part of Bosnia and Herzegovina to get to the second part of the Priboj municipality, to report to their workplace. The paramilitary formation of the Avengers, commanded by Milan Lukic, stopped a bus in Mioce and saw the personal documents of 16 citizens were taken out of the bus, kidnapped, taken in the direction of Visegrad and killed. The minimum of what we owe these people and their families, regardless of religion, the nation, is for these people to get their graves, to get their butcher. To this day, only one face has received its burial place, its mesar. I ask the Commission to make an additional effort to correct this injustice. Also, most of the kidnapped were men, homeowners who fed their families. The minimum of something, even though it's been 29 years, what we can do today for these people is to help in some way damage their families. What I want to point out in particular is the relationship between the local self-government of the Prythian municipality that has always been open to families. Each time one of the representatives of the local self-government attends the memorial ceremony and helped build a memorial complex, which is a civil act and certainly deserves to be mentioned and pointed out. My third question is that of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia -- until when did the investigation into the desecration of the Orthodox cemetery in Novi Pazar arrive? Is the perpetrator and motives established? The public in Novi Pazar, Sandzak and the whole country was upset by the fact that someone dared to defile the Orthodox cemetery in the new market settlement of Sjelov. Immediately, various analysts, news, etc. appeared that it was an outpouring of hatred and impatience. As the representative and MP of the strongest Bosniak party in the Republic of Serbia, I want to unequivocally condemn the barbaric act whoever did it and invite, ask and ask the MUP to establish the perpetrators and the public statement and to establish the motives. Members of the Bosniak and Serb people in the territory of Novi Pazar, Sandzak of Serbia as a whole have traditionally good inter-human, inter-neighbor, international relations. Even these events that I spoke about in the first part of the talk in the 1990s failed to disrupt it, to undermine the trust of the neighbors in each other. It's not even the first case that there's going on in New Market to defile a cemetery or mesar, as we Bosniaks say. It happened a few years ago in an Islamic cemetery, the Gazilar Mesar. So this is what happens permanently, and the MUP has to take an urgent reaction to tell citizens who the perpetrators are and that they are adequately punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9950	Thank you. Let's move on, Nadia Beqiri. I just want to say that the secretary general has informed me that you have announced that you will ask a question in Albanian, so I invite you all to pick up the headphones.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9951	(The People's Parliament speaks in native language. ) Dear citizens, President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask two questions for the Ministry of Finance and another prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. The municipality of Bujanovac addressed the Ministry of Finance proposal number 43, since 6 May 2021, to establish public interest in the expropriation of the property of land and land objects which can, by law, be subject to expropriation in order to build a wastewater treatment plant from the collection collectors for wastewater evacuation. After four months, documentation is required to be complemented by a detailed plan, which has been done, but the period of four months is long and represents lost time and delay in the procedure. There is now a response from the government of the Republic of Serbia to publish a general interest in the expropriation of land on which the waste water treatment plant will be, as well as in official passages and collection collectors. I note that the Bujanovac municipality has all the necessary documentation, that it is part of the Clean Serbia project, a project that has been declared as a project of national importance and that will be carried out in a special procedure, and has been going on for the sixth month that the Bujanovac municipality does not receive an answer and declaration of general interest. The Bujanovac municipality has developed cadastrian topographic plans, co-ordinates design with design houses, which were chosen by the Ministry of Construction. Only the land expropriation process due to a delay in the government's response cannot be initiated. The second issue concerns the address of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, on 6 August 2021, which explained the problem of water supplying the village of Žrebac, which explained in detail the longstanding problem this region has with the chemical correctness of drinking water, from four wells that exist. The municipality of Bujanovac saw a solution by connecting the network from the village of Krsevica, fi 225, to the village of Špevac in the total length of 2,200 metres. At the request of the municipality of Bujanovac, a memo came from the prime minister's office that a complete application with contributions was forwarded to the Public Investment Management Office for further jurisdiction and conduct, but no response was received until today. Of all the needs of the Bujanovac municipality, which is very successful in solving, with funds from my own budget, I have singled out these two problems for which the municipality has not yet received answers and instructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9952	Thank you. Let's move on. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9953	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Republika Srpska Assembly 30 years from the constitution and the team is also the president of our Parliament, Ivica Dacic, who was in Banja Luka yesterday. This visit is evidence of strengthening parliamentary co-operation between Serbia and Serbia, and it is good that one of the outcomes will be holding joint sessions of our parliaments. On behalf of all of us yesterday, President Dacic reiterated our state view that Serbia will guarantee anything stemming from the Dayton Agreement and special ties between Banja Luka and Belgrade. Clearly, we must protect each other because the attack on Serbia and Serbs wherever they live is becoming more brutal. It is good that there are good relations between Bosniaks and Serbs in Priboj, Sjenica, Novi Pazar, but the latest attack comes from the Albanian community from America, which along with the Bosniak and Croatian communities in America, has made a shameful and offensive statement accusing our country of alleged crimes and ethnic cleansing. The team calls on the same-minded organisations to come before the Council of the Republic of Serbia in New York on 28 October to protest a protest called "Government of vote against Serbia that committed crimes in the Balkans through ethnic cleansing, murder and rape, trying to build a long-standing hegemonist stance on big Serbia". So they say and state that world justice for spilled blood, for innocent victims, crimes of fascist Serbia. On these monstrous allegations, we must not remain silent in any way, for the facts speak quite the opposite. Regarding the announcement of this rally that the Serbs want to condemn us in our opinion to cover up their own crimes and iniquities, the facts are the opposite. Let's start with the population. According to Austrian cartographer Hajni Banhauz, according to the 1846 census in the territory of the then Croatian Empire, 2,643,000 Serbs lived and Croats lived three times less, only 836,000 and according to data from the same map of the territory of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, which were under the Ottoman Empire, 99% of Serbs. This isn't our data. This is the data from the austrous cartographer. The question is, what happened to Serbs over the next 150 years? It is clear that the assimilation and ethnic cleansing of Serbs have been carried out. In the 20th century, it was genocide in Jasenovac and other death camps, it was the breakup of Yugoslavia, it was NATO aggression. The data are a clear and complete denial of morbid indications that Serbia is the one doing ethnic cleansing. We are wondering where the 250,000 Serbs from Croatia went after "Bleska" and "Storms" where as many Serbs disappeared from the space of Kosovo and Metohija and how Albanians, Croats and Bosniaks can say that we were doing ethnic cleansing when more and Serbs are less in those parts. Just to remind you of some data. Thus, 580,762 Serbs lived in Croatia in 1991, i.e. 12.2% and in 2011 only 201,631 which is 4.54%. In Kosovo and Metohija, the situation is even worse, of course by Serbs, according to the 1981 census in Pristina, 50,290 Serbs lived in 2011 and only 430 Serbs, in Urosevec in 1981, only 32 Serbs lived today. In Gjilan, 1981, according to the list, there are 19.212 Serbs and in 2011 only 322 Serbs. In Podujevo, 1981, there were 2.242 Serbs in 2011 and only 12 Serbs. In 1981, 1,898 Serbs lived in Djakovica and in 2011 only 17. In the oven 1981, 3,837 lived and currently only 9 Serbs live. Let's not go any further, because in every middle of KIM except for the north, the picture is the same. Then we ask ourselves, who was doing the ethical cleaning here? Not to mention the "yellow house", the fictional Račak or to return to the 1986 case of Djordj Martinovic. Today, more and more in the international public, which has been misinformed for decades, is being spoken openly of the Serb death in the territory of their country or state whose Serbia was a member. The process of banishing, baptizing, assimilation and killing Serbs is a long and skillfully politically planned process. Nevertheless, Serbia continues to seek to be a factor of stability in the region and to connect all peoples, including those who have not been in favour of us through history. My question is next. The state of Serbia is at this shameful protest that Albanians, Croats and Bosniaks are organising outside Serbia's consulate in New York City cannot refuse. The wise foreign policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is our foundation, but we also believe that heavy insults at the expense of the Serbian people and of Serbia must not remain silent in the announcement of this rally. My question is, will the government or the foreign ministry take the necessary preventive diplomatic measures to prevent this kind of political pressure on our people and the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9954	Thank you. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9955	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the subject of my parliamentary question is something I have repeatedly referred to so far, and it's a little bit of a say in a monstrous campaign directed against the president of the state of Alexander Vukic. For days, it has been the attack on the son of Serbian President Danil Vukic, in various media, both printed and electronic, who, my God, calls themselves independent and objective media, which is what citizens need to know, about the media that are directly or indirectly controlled by Dragan Gilas and who serve exclusively for an unfeeling campaign against the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, members of his family, ministers or members of the Serbian government, the SNS official, and that is their sole purpose. So they do absolutely no other kind of work, but only run a 24-hour campaign for seven days a week. This isn't the first time they've hit the family, hit Danil Vukic, this is who knows which way. So, spilling a bunch of lies, accusing him of a bunch of nonsense, not offering any single evidence in that sense, and then, after some time, when it turns out they're lying, when it turns out it's just a bunch of fiction, there's no recognition, there's no apology, but rather they're building a new affair, they're throwing out a new lie, they're launching a new invention, I guess, counting on forgetting the old and so on. However, the chairman, this latest attack, which is obviously well-organised, differs from the previous attacks by Gilas' media teaming up with numerous media from the environment, media from the region, and here we have a number of articles in various regional media, you can guess, it's about Croatian, Albanian and Sarajevo portals. When I say "the Bosnian," I don't want my colleagues coming from Serbia who plead as Bosniaks to get me wrong. This is about the Sarajevo media. Here's what it looks like. Here is an article in "Dnevno.hr" that holds on the front page a picture of Danil Vukic with his father, Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic, and in one monstrous text they almost call Danil Vukic a war criminal, although the boy was not born in the years of the war in Croatia. Then, we have the article "Free Bosnia.ba", says – who is Danilo Vukic, then we have various Albanian portals, we have "Index.hr" – Danilo Vukic is hanging out with mobsters, war criminals, etc. So it is quite clear that this is a synchronised action, organised from a centre, where they were apparently ordered to go, or attack the president of Serbia, this time through the son of Danil Vukic. Of course, these are the same media that are otherwise campaigning daily against Serbia, against Serbian national interests and against Alexander Vukic right now. So every day they accuse him of great Serbian hegemonism, that he's a ware, of expansionism, etc. Here, now they have a current airport in Trebinj, so they call it – it's Vucic Airport, so they're worried as to how the airport will be built, whether it will be profitable etc. Chairman, there's no problem with these regionals, they're doing their job. It is clear to us why they hate Vukic, we understand why Vukic is the subject of everyday attacks, why every success of Serbia is truly in any field, here is a much bigger problem that a large number of domestic media are racing who will attack Vukic more and more brutally. Look at this madness. Sergey Trifunovic, if anyone else remembers Sergei Trifunovic, published on his "Instagram" warrant a publication that says – now there is really a question why Bikovic did not take Alek Baldwin to the boss rather than to the unfortunate Johnny Depp. He's alluding here to one tragic event that happened, when it comes to a famous actor who apparently killed a gun by mistake whether a co-worker or an actress, in other words he's here telling us that it would be good if Vukic had been killed. This is a confirmation of what we of the SNS have been talking about for a long time, which is that they all have absolutely no policy together, no political idea, no political programme, but their entire policy is only, and only to the mere hatred of Alexander Vukic with the desire to remove him physically if possible. So, watch this replacement thesis, then when we from SNS condemn this kind of bestiality, when we condemn this kind of monstrosity, then there goes the attack on us – here's the advances horrendously condemn. What are we supposed to do? Should we support this? Should we look forward to someone wishing for someone else's death? That is why I am asking my question, the chairman, that is to say, the Ministry of Culture and Information, as well as REM, as well as the Press Council, whether and what they are doing in accordance with their legal powers to prevent such brutal campaigns and the Satanisation of members of the Serbian president's family? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9956	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the Parliament of the People's Parliament of Justin Pupin Koscal. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been presented the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. So we move on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 13 and 14 October 2021. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 171 for – 157 did not vote 14. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session on 13 and 14 October 2021, by majority vote. Ladies and gentlemen, in the assembly of this session, which has been delivered to you, there is a proposal for the agenda of this session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda in accordance with the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda, a proposal to merge the debate and a proposal to change the order of each item. The Serbian government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law amending the Republic of Serbia Budget Act for 2021, with a proposal for a decision to agree on the amending and supplementing Decision of the Republic of Serbia's Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2021, the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the Republic Health Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2021 and the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service's amending its 2021 financial plan. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 171, for – 163, eight MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 March 2021. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9957	Ladies and gentlemen, you are all witnesses that two main objections, especially the European Parliament and the EU, have freedom of the media and the rule of law, so my law, in accordance with European legislation, goes in that direction. Namely, that cry about freedom of the media mostly goes, mostly the wheezing goes from so-called. cross-border televisions, which are televisions belonging to United Group, or United Media, or rather, are TV channels owned by Solak and Gilas. So, mostly cross-border European channels complain. If they are complaining about freedom of the media, the question is why do they not whine in the country where the alleged re-emissions of the programme, which is Luxembourg, Slovenia, depending on what they are saying, that the programme is being broadcast, or at the same time taking over the broadcasting that is being done, the law itself says - about cross-border television? So the broadcast takes place somewhere across the border, and here at the same time it takes over. If there are violations of freedom of the media, then it happens in a place where the program is produced, or where the initial broadcast begins, because we're just taking over the finished program. Under number two, the laws following the Convention on Cross-border Television, which has been ratified here, the Law on Electronic Media says that all domestic media must be registered in the Republic of Serbia, media service providers, as it is called, except for those televisions that re-transmit the programme, and these are the TVs that I mentioned, which belong to United media. So, they don't register and therefore avoid all taxes, they don't pay anything to Sokoy, OFFS, they don't pay anything to REM, they don't pay any taxes, they don't pay any taxes, because they just re-emission the program, and therefore domestic television, according to the advertising law that follows this set of laws, they have the right to the marketing market in Serbia, and that's the only right because they pay everything here, they're registered here, and the programs that are re-emissioned can't broadcast our domestic advertising according to our positive laws. You are witnessing that this is not happening, that they are mass airing a program of these TVs that are rebelling over the freedom of the media, although, for example, classic cross-border channels of type BBS, Sky, Europost and other classic cross-border channels do not rebel. Only those pirates who smuggle like re-emitting programs are rebelling against the freedom of the media. In doing so, the Law on advertising by broadcasting advertising, in breach of the law, is taking part of the income to the domestic media and thus affecting the freedom of the media in Serbia, because there is no freedom without income. This reduces salaries for domestic journalists in domestic media, and buys leaders, politicians, etc. That money from the robbery of domestic media. My law goes that way so that the Convention on Transboundary Television will be implemented all the way to the end and there will be no more such abuses. Those who violate the Law on Electronic Media, the Convention on Transboundary Television, the Law on Advertising, they found us to object, and this is about support from the EU, United Media, they found us to respect even more how we threaten the freedom of the media and the rule of law, and it is obvious that this is done by United Media with the support of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9958	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 171, for – 22, did not vote – 149. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has not accepted this proposal. The People's MP Bojan Torbica is, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 16 November 2020. People's MP Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9959	Thank you. Not long ago, since the end of 2000, until mid-2012, during the rule of the Democratic Party and its political puppets, Serbia has been silent about a terrible crime committed during the 78 days of NATO aggression against the innocent population. She kept Serbia silent by hiding her victims, hiding the horrors she experienced from the 19 strongest and richest countries. To our shame, Serbia was in those years a country where all those who defended their country and people against the Cypriot terrorist gangs were persecuted and arrested, those who bravely opposed the pogroms of their people in the territory of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, those who heroically stood on the defender of their country and resisted NATO aggression. But even scarier, Serbia was in those years a state where all proven terrorists and criminals were released from prison, all those who killed, abused and persecuted the Serbian people during the 1990s. In those years, the freedom and protection of the law were guaranteed only to members of a criminal organization, so-called "the law". The UCK and the criminal organisations of the Democratic Party, of course, and their coalition partners. To our shame, Serbia was the country that cared most about those who killed and persecuted the people or robbed and destroyed it under the auspices of democratic change. Over 12 years, Serbia has been silent and shuddering, closing both its mouth and its eyes in front of the murderers and thieves, in front of the evil they have done to it. The silent and grumbling Serbia and in front of injustice as they arrested her, dungeoned the bravest and most frequent sons, her heroes and knights. She kept quiet and mumbled Serbia in front of lies that it was all our fault, that it was our fault that we were killed, banished, abused, that it was our only fault that they burned down the hearths, destroyed schools and churches, destroyed factories and bridges, that we were to blame ourselves for building the house on the road, so it's perfectly normal that they crashed and fell. They hoped that the united murderers and thieves would contribute time to Serbia's forget about its imprisoned heroes, that Serbia would forget its dead and wounded, that wounded and weakened shoulders would load on the burden of a non-existent, imaginary genocide, under which both Serbia and the Serbian people would bow down begging forgiveness for something we didn't do, begging their own executioners to forgive us for being victims. But how nine years ago we managed to throw away this evil and how we were able to restore our pride to the state, and our faith to the citizens, to restore the reputation and dignity of those who fought bravely and honestly and whose only crime was that they defended their country and their people, so we remained obliged to determine the exact number of innocent victims and heroes, the obligation to fully, without any exception for the first time in the history of this country and this nation recorded the name of every victim, every dead and wounded citizen who was in any way killed. We are obliged to preserve for future generations the names of those who were better and braver than us, those who did not regret dying so that we might live. It is our duty and obligation to remember their heroism and to talk about their sacrifice, because a people who forget their heroes and their martyrs cannot be a people who deserve respect in their own or in other people's eyes. For this reason, fellow MPs, I call on you to support this proposal to form a commission to determine the exact number of people killed and wounded during NATO aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9960	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 172 for – 20, no vote – 152. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraph 2, 157, paragraphs 1, 170 and 192, paragraphs 3, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed that: 1st Joint Principle Search on the Proposal for a Law on the Guardian of Citizens and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matters; 2nd Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Registration Procedure of the Agency for Commercial Registers, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Recording of Real Owners and Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (Smart Number) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and 3rd Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision on the Completion of the Decision on Termination of the Function and Appointing in the Republic of Election Commission and the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the Selection of Members and Deputy Members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Martinovic probably doesn't ask for a word. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 172 for – 163, did not vote – nine. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure, he proposed a change in the order of agenda items, i.e. the draft law amending the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2021, with all other proposals for decisions that go with budget rebalancing, to be considered as the 1st item of the agenda. Mr. Martinovic, you probably don't want to answer that. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 172 for – 166 did not vote – six. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on a proposal to put on the agenda of the emergency session of the act, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda, a proposal for a merger of the debate and a proposal for a change in the order of each item of the proposed agenda, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 171 for – 167 did not vote – four. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Now we're going to work on the established agenda of the session. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Republic of Serbia Budget Act for 2021, with a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision on the Amendments and Supplements of the Republic of Serbia's Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2021, the Proposal for a Decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the 2021 Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Health Insurance and the Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service's financial plan; 2. Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty (Smart Numbers) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 7. Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission and 8. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before we move to the first item of the agenda, I would just like to remind you that, that is, to tell you what we talked about today at the National Assembly College, which is that because of the budget rebalance, which is going by emergency procedure, today we are going to devote to the rebalancing and the need for the immediate adoption of this document today should also be a vote, around 6:00 p.m. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow we would continue on the other points as Mr. Martinovic suggested, by continuing the session then because of these draft laws that will likely be submitted to the amendments, next Tuesday and probably Wednesday, so that this session will take place next week. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Sinisa Mali, Minister of Finance, Prof. Dr. Daria Kisić-Tepavcevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Boračka and Social Affairs, Dr. Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Dr. Saša Stevanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zoran Radovanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Darko Komnenic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Mirjana Ćojbašić and Zoran Milosevic, Executive Director of the Department for Economic Affairs in the Republic of Health Insurance, Biljana Stanković, Director of the Economic Sector of the National Employment Service, Zlatica Škodric, Director of the Republic Fund for Health Insurance, Svetlana Tadin, Director of the Economic Affairs in the Republic of Health Insurance, Biljana Stanković, Director of the National Employment Service, Zlatica Zec, Financial Director of the Republic of the National Fund for the Republic of the Republic of Ljubljana and the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenianic Security and the Republic of Croatia. Before opening a search for the 1st item – budget rebalancing, I would ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately file statements with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(1) and Article 192(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle and uniform review on the draft Law amending the Republic of Serbia Budget Act for 2021, with a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the Republic of Serbia's Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2021, the Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the 2021 Financial Fund for Health Insurance and the Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service's financial plan. The word is made by a representative of Proposer Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9961	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Dacic, the honourable MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, it is my great pleasure to have the opportunity to discuss with you today the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's 2021 budget. It is a document that is extremely positive, and the reason for its adoption is much, much better results in the first nine months of this year than expected. In fact, in the first nine months of this year, we achieved a better result, believe it or not, for 180 billion dinars, so a billion and a half euros. What we want through budget rebalancing is to reallocate this money and focus on what the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are, which are the excessive rise in the standard of living of Serbian citizens, raising the competitiveness and attractiveness of our economy and further continuing investment in capital projects. If you look, and it's very important to me today to share with you, all tax forms, every tax form is higher than planned. Income tax higher by 4.5 billion than planned, income from corporate income tax higher by 43.9 billion than planned in the last rebalance we had, which was April, a value added tax greater than projected in April by 53.7 billion, customs revenues higher by 2.5 billion dinars than projected, excise revenues by 6.4 billion dinars higher than projected. These are data that indicate that our economy is recovering much faster than planned, that our economy is much more resistant to the crisis and that finally the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, therefore support packages for both citizenship and economy, last year two packages, this year another package, the total of eight billion euros, were absolutely justified and targeted in the right way to ensure macro-economic stability, and to ensure both the preservation of jobs and our production capacities. What is very important in budget rebalancing, we are reducing the projected deficit to below 5%, so 4.9%, with a public debt ratio of 58.2% by the end of the year in GDP. It is the best answer for all those who have said that Serbia is trespassing uncontrollably, that our debt will be over 60%, etc. No, respected citizens of Serbia, respected MPs, so we keep an absolute public debt below the level of Mastricht, which is a promise made by President Vukic. We keep that promise because it's the only way to keep and maintain our macroeconomic stability. So, from the projected 6.9% of the April deficit, we go to 4.9% and with the participation of public debt in the GDP of 58.2% we will end this year. A huge, huge success, and it is my special pleasure to tell you that, based on meetings with the IMF mission last year, and confirmed that the growth rate of our economy will be at least 7% this year. In order to be aware of what this means, last year and this year, the times of the biggest economic crisis ever, the global crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, our country achieved a minus 0.9% drop in GDP this year over 7%. When you look at those two years together, we will be the first, second or third country in Europe in 2020 and 2021. It is a result that we have never or, at least in recent decades, we have not been able to dream of our Serbia being a record player, being the champion, being the most successful in the economy, in the age of the biggest and most difficult economic crisis ever, where we have reached both the most developed and successful countries of us. It is a great success for all Serbian citizens, and I would like to congratulate them on that. When you look at all the other macroeconomic indicators, what is particularly important to me to point out, that our salaries grow, from month to month, where the average salary in August was 64,393 dinars, that, according to the Ministry of Finance's projection, we will have an average salary of as much as 618 euros in December. If you remember President Vukic's promise, when he said by the end of 2019 we would have an average salary of 500 euros, few who believed in it, we fulfilled that promise. Here, as we said, from month to month, the average wages in our country are growing. By December 2025, according to the "Serbia 2025" programme, and in spite of the Coronal Virus pandemic, absolutely, as planned, to say that we reach that goal, the average salary in December 2025 is 900 euros, the average pension to be around 420/430 euros. So the budget rebalance and the overall economic policy of the Republic of Serbia is aimed at raising the standard of living for Serbian citizens, through raising wages, through raising pensions, from month to month. What is particularly important to me to stress, too, is that with three packages to help our economy, we have managed to retain all production capacities. So in Serbia, you didn't get a chance to see mass layoffs, hundreds of thousands or millions of people who lost their jobs. We supported our economy, we showed how strong our country is, how stable our public finances are, that we have money, that we want to help our economy, that's what we did. Our unemployment rate today is at the same level as before the crisis, before 2020, which is a huge, extremely important success. That is the consequence of the very economic policy that President Vukic started while he was still Prime Minister. So, the opening of new factories, to remind you of over 250 factories, new factories have only been opened in the past few years. Employment of young people, opening new jobs and when it comes to the crisis of preserving our production capacities, which we have absolutely succeeded. In this regard, when foreign direct investment is at stake, just to let you know for the first eight months of this year, we have 2.6 billion euros in gross foreign direct investment. That's a 52% increase compared to last year. So Serbia has shown and proved how credible and attractive investment destination was, especially in times of crisis, at a time of crisis when the state paid all its commitments in a dinar, in a day. All the promises she made, she kept those promises in a dinar in the daytime. It is this inflow of foreign direct investment that tells us how much we have changed, and for us, of course, that means opening new jobs, opening new factories, opening new business zones, further wage growth, further pension growth and commitments on our part, that we are investing even more in large capital investments that raise the quality of life of Serbian citizens. What is particularly important to me is to point out that we are in the budget rebalancing that has been allocated before you today and additional money to pay out to all the full-time citizens in our country in the amount of 20 euros in December this year. As you know, this year we have already paid 30 euros in May to all full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, on November 1st, we leave with the remaining 30th of November, on November 1st, all of our pensioners, they get 30 euros in their accounts, on November 2nd and 3rd of all other full-time citizens who applied for this aid will also be paid off, somewhere we have five million and 760,000 citizens of Serbia who have applied for this aid. So it's just saying how well we've defined the aid and how many citizens have accepted it. What is in the budget rebalancing is the remaining 20 euros, as President Vukic has promised. So, in early December, we will account for all the adult citizens of our country who have applied, i.e. who will be paid an additional 20 euros. What I want to repeat before you today, so November 15th, the application begins and the application will continue until the end of November. Those who have already applied for 30 plus 30 euros do not need to register again. This application is open to those who have become adult since April, who have received confirmation of residence or ID card. So we're opening up an opportunity for them to use this aid by the state. Let me remind you, just as never before, we invested eight billion euros last year and this year to support our economy and our fellow citizens, in order to reduce the negative consequences of the conoral virus pandemic. This year, to remind you, we paid 30 euros in May, as I said. Here, 30 euros in November, 20 euros will be paid in December. We paid off 50 euros on 22 September on the accounts of all of our oldest citizens, so all of our pensioners, the promise we made, we kept. We paid 60 euros to remind you of the accounts of all those on the bureau as unemployed. We paid three thousand dinars in May to all those who received at least one dose of the vaccine against Kovida-19. We paid 100 euros for all our citizens in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, plus 100 euros, so 200 euros in total for those who live there and who are unemployed. So, huge help, not to mention three times a 50% minimum profit that went to all entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, not to mention two full minimum earnings for independent artists, in addition to that. Two full minimum earnings for all those employed in the areas of hospitality and tourism, for those we consider to be the most affected by this crisis. Six months of support of 600 euros for each car carrier, per bus. We also helped city hotels with 350 euros per room, 150 euros per bed. So, great help from the Republic of Serbia. It's never happened before, and even though we helped, showed power, showed our country's strength, showed us how strong public finances were. We did not endanger macroeconomic stability and today I said at the beginning of my exposure, we will have a deficit of only 4.9% by the end of this year and a public debt relative to GDP, well below 60%, so 58.2% which is the huge success of all Serbian citizens. What makes this budget rebalance particularly important to all of us is capital projects. So, the basis of our economic policy towards higher growth rates is based on never higher capital investments, investment in travel, rail infrastructure, health care, schools, everything that raises the quality of our fellow citizens' lives, and on the other hand pushes the growth rate of our economy forward, employs our construction industry and other industries. That was the essence of the 2021 budget. With this practice we continue through this budget rebalance, and we will continue and there will be a budget for 2022 very soon. So you will see that we continue to invest in infrastructure that is very important to us. Here in this budget rebalance, you have 389 billion dinars, 6.3% of GDP at the budget level, and at the general state level, that figure is 478 billion dinars, or 7.8% of GDP. Never a bigger number. It has never been allocated to capital investments again, in the development of our infrastructure, travel, rail, health care, so we want that level of quality of our infrastructure to be at European Union level in the shortest time. Not to forget the investments in the sewers we started with, wastewater treatment plants, so that in the next few years every household in Serbia has a sewer connection, and every local self-government also has a waste water treatment plant. In particular, in this rebalancing process, we have allocated additional money to speed up the work to so-called. Moravia corridor, so from Pojat to Kruševec, the highway will be finished somewhere in March next year. The extra money has been rebalancing for it. In rebalancing, we also allocated money to start building so-called construction. The Danube highways, so from the fireman to the Golubac, the works are already starting in November this year. And another very important capital project for us. We also allocated money to build bypasses around Loznica, Gornji Milanovac, Užica and to break through the Kadinjac tunnel, as promised by President Vukic. So, promise fulfilled. Here's the money in the budget rebalancing and we're moving in as short a time period as possible with these papers. To remind you all together, and Serbian citizens also, so we are currently building, if you look at the highways, the Moravski corridor that I mentioned earlier, we are building Požega – Preljina, we are building Ruma – Šabac – Loznica, we are building Iverak – Lajkovac, or Valjevo – Lajkovac, we are building so-called. The Fruskogorski corridor, therefore, Novi Sad – Ruma, we are building a fast roadway from Surcin to New Belgrade, moving from Nis to Pločnik, and towards Merdar, we are going very quickly with the construction of Belgrade – Zrenjanin – Novi Sad, a car also on the way. We have a huge investment in the revitalization of our railroad. We will have a fast train and a fast track from Belgrade to Novi Sad will be completed by the spring of next year. So, huge interventions are at stake, huge money is at stake, and for the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade, let me also inform them, in this budget rebalancing we have the money to start building the subway. I will be present next week as the president of the Belgrade Metro Building Body and the act of signing the Construction Treaty, so that by the end of November, I expect that we have met, that we will fulfill the great promise we have made and that the construction of the first line of the Belgrade subway is under way. So huge investment in road infrastructure, in railway infrastructure, of course gives incentives to both private and foreign, and domestic investors to invest additional money in new factories, in new plants, to create new jobs. So, of course, we speed up our traffic, safer traffic in our country. Simply, the quality of life with the quality of infrastructure goes up, and that is the basis for further progress and living standards, so the more jobs, the more factories, the more money in the budget. We also have the basis for an increase in wages, and for an increase in pensions, and that is the only correct and only responsible and only sustainable on a long-term economic policy. About budget rebalances, a few more information for you and the citizens of Serbia. So we also provided money for the accelerated construction of the vaccine factory here in Belgrade, the factory is already being built, and we will be building on March, April, next year, Serbia will already have the construction and opening of the first vaccine factory and it is a huge thing for all of us. We are going to be about our sovereignty and some new crisis, which may potentially arise, absolutely safe, because we will have our own vaccine production and we will not depend on anyone else, and we will be able to help other countries and our friends and the region further. Here, in the budget rebalancing, we also allocated money for the accelerated completion of KCS, here in Belgrade, for its equipment. What is also very important, in the rebalancing of the budget, we also allocate money for the start and completion of the reconstruction of the homes of health in Grocko, Chukarica, Gajin Han, Lapovo, Loznica, Medvedja, Racha and Sombor. So we don't stop when it comes to reconstruction and the construction of this primary health infrastructure. What is particularly important to me, from other projects to point out, therefore, is that we have allocated a budget of 3.3 billion to the Ministry of Ecology, i.e. environmental protection, and that is the money that is related to incentives, to re-use, to the use of waste. Historical waste, we have set aside 2.5 billion additional for the Ministry of Sports, I apologize 2.3 billion for the Ministry of Sports, for the completion of this multi-functional hall in Kostunica, and otherwise Serbia is hosting the world championship in wrestling and athletics, the world chess championship, the world rowing cup in 2022, etc., etc. For all of this, we have already provided money in rebalancing, to cover these costs, we have provided 2.7 billion for agriculture, an additional incentive for agriculture to close this year, with the total allocations for agriculture reaching 60.3 billion. We also allocated money to end the deal with the American Development Agency, so that their money, about $400 million, would be available to our economy. Every promise we made through this budget rebalance and we keep. On the other hand, we stick to the direction President Vukic defined when it comes to the economic policy of the Republic of Serbia, which is that every single dinar, every saved dinar, must be directed towards investing in capital investment, to raise the attractiveness of our economy and to invest in raising the standard of living of Serbian citizens. So absolutely when you look at the structure of all these investments that I've made today in front of you, we're absolutely sticking to that direction. In the next few weeks, I will have the opportunity to defend the 2022 budget before you, but now, given the talks we had on the Finance Committee yesterday, and the IMF, which was here last week, I can confirm that we will go with an even smaller deficit, so we will go with the deficit to 3% in the 2022 budget. This amount of deficit will allow us to make the share of public debt in GDP even smaller at the end of next year, to be 55.5% of the current projected by the end of this year, 58.2% and that is the best answer for all those who say that I do not know how we are in charge and run an irresponsible economic policy. So, ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, at the time of the biggest economic crisis, the crisis caused by the coronary virus pandemic, we all managed to get vaccines together when it was most difficult, to get respirators, to make three brand-new hospitals, to start building the first and only vaccine factory in the region, to build seven or eight, nine, now highways and fast cars, to invest in our railways, to raise salaries, to raise pensions. In September of the month, to remind you, we've made a decision that since January 1st, we've been growing a minimum profit of 9.4%. So, by 9.4% of January 1st, 2022, the minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia will be three hundred euros, over 35,000 dinars, and in 2011, if I'm not mistaken, it was 15,700 dinars. So today, twice as many as 10 years ago, and the hard years are behind us. The difficult years behind us, the fiscal consolidation of 2014 that started, the difficult measures that we have taken together, through which we have been through, gave us the opportunity, to make it clear to everyone, that four years in a row we have a surplus in the budget, to make a sufficient reserve that we can in times of crisis, such as this caused by the pandemic of the coronaryvirus, to act in the right way, to help both the economy and the citizens, build what needs to be built, without jeopardising macroeconomic stability in any way. I have a lot of data in front of you today. When you look at other much bigger and more successful countries, they have a public debt of over 200%, over 160%, 120%, 130%, one Germany is at 90%, and Serbia is at 58.2% below the Mastricht level and we will not cross that level this year or next. So, the promise we made, we'll keep it. It's special to me to mention. Thank you again for your support in this presentation. I'm here to answer every one of your questions. Serbia is moving on unsustainable. Serbia has also become a leader in the region when it comes to the economy, when it comes to salary height, when it comes to pensions, when investment in capital investment is at stake, we become one roll model for all to run a responsible and economic policy, in which way we should fight the challenges, whether they are economic, political or health. In the end, I just want great gratitude to President Vukic and to all of you for pushing all of us and pushing our country into a better future with a clear vision of a stable and successful Serbia. Thanks again. I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9962	Thank you, Mr. Minister. All the congratulations on the extraordinary results you've just presented to us. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 6 p.m. due to the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're moving on to the authorities. The President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9963	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we discussed the proposal that lies before us today and assessed that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia. What should certainly be pointed out, when we talk about budget rebalancing, are the fact that we can conclude that the Serbian government is leading a good financial policy, and the conclusion is that the result is much better than expected and that for about 1.5 billion euros this year, GDP will grow by at least 7%. The budget deficit will be 4.9% instead of the expected 6.9%, and public debt will be 58.2% at the end of this year. There are many areas where we have achieved results that are, of course, directly related to the budget, which my colleagues will talk about today. I'll briefly look back on some of the funds that apply to the Department of Justice. In fact, one of the basic measures defined and in the National Strategy for Justice Reform is to strengthen judicial infrastructure in order to improve the judiciary. The justice ministry is a resolute ministry that is required to provide better conditions for the work of all employees in the judicial system and therefore needed reconstruction, but also the construction of many buildings. I'll start with the town I come from. The first phase of the reconstruction of the former barracks "Philip Kljajic" in Nis was completed. At the end of the first phase of work in Nis, conditions were obtained for the transfer of the Special Department for the Prevention of Corruption of the High Court and the Special Department for the Prevention of Corruption of the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the departments of the Administrative Court. We need to know that the works covered an area of about 2,600 square meters, and the entire facility was about 10,000 square meters. In the part of the facility that will be subject to reconstruction, conditions are also provided for the accommodation of the Economic and Criminal Court. We have further work to do on the construction of the Palace of Justice in Kragujevac. Immigrants are planned by the end of the year, and this facility is intended for the accommodation of all judicial authorities in Kragujevac and the Department of the State's Attorney's Office. It will accommodate as many as 11 judicial authorities on an area of as many as 24,000 square meters. As for plans for the next period, the building of an annex to the Belgrade Special Court Building in Statska Street is planned, and for the purposes of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, even more adequate conditions would be created in Belgrade for sanctioning organised crime. For the next year, the design of the facility and the contracting of works on the construction of the building are planned. Work has been launched to design works on reconstruction and the Third Basic Court in Belgrade, thus rounding up the accommodation capacity of Belgrade's judicial authorities. I'll mention the Krushevac. In Kruševec, a space was provided for the construction of a new building for the accommodation of all judicial authorities in Kruševec. There will be a total of six judicial authorities. The construction of a project for the reconstruction of the building of the basic court in Ubb was started. In addition to these projects, there is a plan by the end of the year to continue the adaptation and arrangement of areas at judicial facilities across Serbia, as well as to provide the necessary equipment to continue working on modernising information applications for recording and monitoring cases in judicial authorities. Except for those I've cited, so I don't take a lot of time, of course, there's still a lot of results that the Department of Justice has achieved. And in collaboration with the National Assembly, we have passed many laws that are the ministry, and of course, and in order, above all, to establish a more efficient system of justice, the judiciary that we will in this way and bring closer to the citizens and that will, in some ways, serve the citizens, but on the other hand, and with the aim of meeting certain obligations that we have made to bring our legislative framework in line with European trends. I will also remind you that the Venice Commission has given a positive opinion on the text of the constitutional amendments and that this is the process that will mark this assembly session and the process that is already being brought to an end. In this way I was talking about the results of the Justice Ministry's work, we can talk about all the ministries. The ministries have shown, or the Serbian government has shown that working together and having a good relationship with our finances is quite possible to achieve results. That's exactly why I'd like to finish the presentation in a way that I'm going to invite my colleagues and colleagues to vote on this proposal in the day to vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9964	Thank you. The word is by Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9965	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, yesterday we had opportunities on the Committee on Finance, Budget and Control of Public Spending in an open debate to hear all the views of both the Ministry of Finance and the NBS and the Fiscal Council, as well as the Council for the Coordination of Activities and Measures for the Work of GDP, which was formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. More than two hours of proposing, or all of these relevant institutions, have had the opportunity to say what Serbia's results are, how we are discussing budget rebalancing for the second time today, and how we are actually looking at Serbia's development and recovery from last year, and how we created a positive environment and trust for Serbian citizens in our country, but thus also trusting investors and foreign and domestic ones to create new jobs. What we had the opportunity to see is, in addition to these concrete results that the minister cited, and that assessment that the Fiscal Council is obliged to give, when it comes to budget and budget rebalance, which has cited some three items that it simply disagreed with, and we know, when I support Serbian citizens that last year, when it comes to these 100 euros and when it comes to twice this year, to 30 and 20 euros to all citizens of Serbia, as a form of support for the resolution of the negative consequences of the Kovid-19 pandemic, that the Fiscal Council is against such measures. We have always defined ourselves to go in favour of the citizens of Serbia, to try somewhere with the slightest support of their home budget to facilitate these difficult times, and that is what we really think, regardless of how much we disagree with the many points of the Fiscal Council, we simply help Serbia move forward. What is of great importance to us, capital investments are at 7.8% of GDP level, at a historic high level, and show that Serbia is really high in growth rates this year of 7% really pushing these public investments that the state is doing. In addition to these corridors said by the minister, I would like to point out, that we may be apostrophe, that a new vaccine factory is being opened in co-operation with the United Arab Emirates, but also that part relating to Serbia-Bulgaria's interconnection. It is a gas interconnector that is very important, which is that it enables diversification, i.e. the possibility of accessing a gas network that passes through Serbia by all favourable and possible gas manufacturers. Why are we saying this? Because you are aware that we have adopted green packages when we speak in the field of energy, but you are also aware that there is now a big dilemma in the world about how the energy crisis will survive. Serbia has provided every possible basis to be safe, when it comes to supply and gas, when it comes to the economy of Serbia and Serbian citizens, but also to electricity. What is very important to say, and this is that the meeting between Mr. Vukic and Mr. Putin on November 25th should travel the way to what this co-operation will look like in the coming years and under what conditions, but we are sure that Serbia will have the best conditions, when it comes to transport and use of natural gas and when it comes to the energy sector, especially because Serbia has managed from its resources to complete a gas interconnection that connects Bulgaria and Hungary, that is, Austria and the European countries, and in fact it has shown in fact that it is able to finance projects of the future through its economic development and, in fact, to create a secure basis when it comes to the development of Serbia. When it comes to budget rebalancing, it is important to say that the funds for adaptation have also been found here, the reconstruction of very important social protection institutions. It's the House of Adults in the Tower of Alexine, and it's Zvechanska. When we talk about unsettled children in Zvecanska, which I think is of great importance today, that citizens of Serbia know that, the reconstruction of eight health homes, and it is important to say that, in addition to sports activities, it has finally come to the turn of the Sports Centre in Belgrade to reconstruct, to build a new volleyball centre and to start building a national stadium. I think that these projects are of great importance, which now go through this rebalancing, because everything we promised as a state and what concerns all the activities in the Republic of Serbia really go when you have good results, and Serbia has good results. We are now talking about a new picture of a modern Serbia. This means a great recovery, about Serbia's great successes when it comes to the growth and development of our economy at all, but we say we haven't forgotten, not just the health sector, but those sectors that need to go, parallel to developing when you have good results as a state. I think that we created with citizens, that's very important, and also with investors, but what's most important, yesterday on the Committee, is that there is coordination between monetary, fiscal and economic policies and it gives results. In a sustainable way, we also have borrowings when it comes to loans, mostly through state infrastructure and investment, and we have a precautionary principle. We had a chance to hear from both the minister and the governor of the National Bank yesterday to very much monitor certain potential challenges or so on. Hit the market. When we talk about money at all, about inflation, we have to be... (President: Mrs. Tomic, time. I'm done. So what was of great importance to us yesterday on the Committee to hear, I think all MPs and the public can hear, given that we have online sessions, coordination of all institutions in the state is needed to have these results. That is why today we have the opportunity to discuss and tell citizens what it is that brings Serbia's better future and life here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9966	Thank you. Next is Marijan Risticevic, representative of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9967	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in 2012, incentives amounted to 22 billion, incentives in agriculture, or 186m euros. Today with this latest rebalancing incentives in agriculture are a total of 48,583,845,000 dinars. So over 400m euros. So, during the yellow cockroaches, there were 186m euros. This is the total amount of year-on-year incentives, and today it is over 400m, namely 417m euros, are incentives in agriculture. The agricultural budget, which was 28 billion, is now 60 billion. So, the agrarian budget is currently 530m euros. As Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I am grateful because in 2014, two years after the change, I found 24 billion, and together with the members of the Committee in previous meetings and in this meeting we managed to provide 48 for agriculture. 583,845,000. What farmers resent for us is that in a certain way our agricultural policy cannot or is not in the event of a long-term situation and is not predictable. So we haven't made a plan of expenditure, so there's a disproportion between the amounts filed on the basis of the claims and what was provided in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to tell you that in 2008, the SAA, which was initialled in 2007, was very badly negotiated. In fact, the former government seems to have thought since agriculture only after the negotiations and after the signing. In fact, we have now become the European Union market, so by signing the SAA in terms of trade and agricultural products, we have become part of the European Union and the EU has become part of our market. We have become a common market with a very short adjustment deadline. Very quickly, we dropped protection measures, customs, etc. to protect our agricultural production. What's this about? By making that common market happen, we have received dumping. So, the EU in which in the price of agricultural products incentives participates with over 30% and participates with less than 6%, so they could be more competitive on both their market and ours. It's so-called. dumping. They could sell us their agricultural products below the cost of costing, to win our market and to get rid of surpluses. So on that common market they had an incentive. If we take hectares as a unit of measures, they had over 500 euros per hectare, while at the time we competed with them with 80 euros, and now it's somewhere from 120 euros to 150 euros still not enough to compete evenly. It's like if the unprepared 2008 FK "Polet" from Novi Karlovac was sent to compete with the "Manchester United" which was prepared, well organized, etc. and with this even worse position, we will go out with seven players with the FK "Polet" and have Manchester United come out with 10 players, since at the price of agricultural products they have 30 percent subsidies. So from seven to ten players, completely unprepared, we were an easy target and the result of that is most recognizable in livestock, because at this point we are more importing pig meat and pig than we are exporting for 600,000 pieces. The country of Karadjordja, Milosha large exporter, tradition, is currently a net importer of meat in total. This is the result of what the yellows signed before us, not taking care of agriculture now two and a half times as much incentives cannot compensate for the EU's advantage. The moment that we are today or the moment when we are EU Serbian agriculture is from the European Union would get, in proportion to their incentive, 1.5 billion. So right now, we're down to a billion in incentives and we're competing with that in Europe. Thanks to our peasant being tough, resilient, because he's getting along, we still have food security, we still have food sovereignty especially on the CEFTA market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9968	I thank Mr. Risticevic. We're moving on to authorized representatives of the MPs' clubs. The first on the list is the vice-president of the National Assembly and the president of the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation, Mr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9969	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable citizens, given that we have received an explanation that we have heard, which is the basis for amending and supplementing the budget, where we have had opportunities to hear and see the good news, so the basis for changing the budget is not survival, but, therefore, the financial energy collected during the year and which is a positive result based on which this step can be made. We have this result in terms of budgetary resources, so two things -- one is a healthy economic fiscal and financial policy, and the other is also very important, or no less important, balanced policy with equal measures. So this should be considered, because if we were here as quick as some other countries and if we had, let's say, more restrictions, we certainly couldn't have these financial results. So, by the way, but also very important, I'd like it to be very careful with the introduction of a fold of passes and not to come down below 10:00. In over 2200 hours and catering facilities there is logic because the decent world after 2200 hours has to be in the house and there is no problem with us having sharp measures. However, when it comes to the daily period, he would pray that we should not lie down and not compete with the introduction of various restrictions, and in particular no sign of passes. This is also very important from the aspect of elementary human individual law and from the aspect of constitutional principles and norms, but also from the aspect of the intention to continue this trend of economic and financial development and stabilisation where we can then have, if God does, in the coming months even more significant results. I look forward to this possibility, these results and this financial potential so that what has been started, drawn, and what is planned can be successfully realised. What we are particularly interested in are the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party in this regard is what we are directly and included in, and this is the insistence and struggle to revitalise the Municipality of Sjenica after more than two decades of the rule of a criminalised government whose consequences are unfortunately not only the economic downfall of a municipality, a poor municipality, which, as we have already said, has more than a few days since the government was formed, has only a few days of unblocked account. However, despite the fact that he faces debts of more than fivem euros that actually constitute a noose around the door not only for the development process, but for the elemental survival of the administration of public institutions, businesses and all that the public sector does in the municipality of Sjenica, however, the government thanks to its own ability, thanks to its responsibility, of course, in co-operation with the competent state authorities, manages to find energy and to launch very significant investment projects. This moment after the completion of the strategically important cave highway, the famous cave highway that has waited decades and decades to be realized, which connects the cave highlands from one end to the other, even this far-fetched village near the border of Montenegro and the name of the Corner, because it is located on the corner of the country and the cave highlands itself, we managed to end this large project together last and before last year, which actually gave us the normal functioning of a single artery for the life and development of the cave area, namely that part of the cave and the territory and the area of the Municipality of Sjenica. At the moment, works are also being brought into the same important road route towards the village of Bare, which also connects a very significant number of villages, which actually eliminates one major injustice or one lag in the elementary infrastructure of the municipality of Sjenica, which has also been waiting for decades. Also more important investment or a very important investment is nine kilometers of asphalt road between the so-called so-called. Golf road and village Stavalj, more precisely between the section of the road Novi Pazar – Sjenica, more precisely than the Long Field towards Sjenica. There is a total reconstruction or revitalisation of this road route which is very burdened. It is of great importance that the implementation is under way so that this budget inflow and adoption of this supplement and the amending budget will make assumptions that it does not stop with the realization of this investment, which is of great importance for Sjenica, but also not only Sjenica, but it is a state road which is of regional importance because it continues to connect the area from Novi Pazar to Novi Varosha, Priboj, and further towards BiH, or Sarajevo. So we expect this trend of investment, especially in infrastructure, to continue. There is another set of needs related to rural areas that are delegated but are smaller investments, which will certainly find opportunities for this to be realised soon. On the other hand, what is the main, the expectation and what is already confirmed by all large and strategic plans, as well as political arrangements, is the acceleration of the realisation of the highway route Corridor 11, continuing further from Požega towards Ivanjica, and then the cave highlands further south, i.e. Bolari. It will actually be a new page of history, not only for the municipality of Sjenica, but for the entire Sandzak region, but also for the wider region, as well as for the country itself, i.e. the integration of the two countries, Serbia-Montenegro, i.e. the integration of Serbia with the Adriatic coast. Surely after the realization of this highway route and in economic and social terms, a new page can be opened. We also have a significant participation in the Sjenica in the launch of other important investments. As you had opportunities and media to be notified a few days ago, everything is finally ready to approach the implementation of a project to build a primary school, a brand-new primary school, projected in a million-dollar amount of over eight million euros, with references that can certainly be worth, as we have already said once, for the 22nd century. I have to be subjective, every investment is looking forward to me and I can't say that investment in infrastructure or investment in economy or investment in another sector is more important than any other sector, it's simply by its importance so important investments that I can't put myself in some parenting relationship or hierarchical position, but what I have to subjectively say is that the most, or the most joyous announcement or start of an investment in education. Because having the capacity not only to build a school, you know that in smaller places with how little money you can build a small or nice school, but building schools worth between eight and 10 million euros isn't just building a school and solving a single school need issue, that's much more, it's a cultural-civilization message, it's a simple sign and a message of a new definition to education, where you're actually raising the standard in one school. Yeah, someone's gonna say it's just one school, yeah, but for that one school, it's got to be set aside between eight and 10 million euros. It was possible to dissipate and create some improvised, small, insufficiently standardized not only schools but also any other objects to view this project as populist or similar investment projects, but to build a project with such references, to build a project that will actually open a new page in the approach to education, where we will actually receive it, a school in the city itself that has a lot of its outreach departments in villages, so that will receive children that I am sure that when parents and children see such a single school, they will need time to get used to, whether they are in Sjenica or they are moved to some satellite ship or some ultra-developed city or territory of this country or the world, which will certainly represent a whole new phenomenon, or a novelty. You see, someone can say -- well, well, it's important that it's dry, that it doesn't drip, that it's warm, that it has a bench, etc. Yeah, that's the most important thing, that's what's important when it's missing. But when it comes to the formation of a young creature, a child, a future man, space is much more than elemental functionality. The space is an ambience which has a significant impact on the education, education, or education of a child in a school with such a standard, and even if you have a leadership that will later maintain that school, which will definitely be their obligation and insistence of the competent authorities in the Ministry of Education and other surveillance factors, so the stay of a child in primary school for eight years, you know how much it is, for a year more than it was in its family before it came to school. So, you give this child who came from different socioeconomic and family conditions a chance to get to know the new world with a different standard, which gives him a message of both aesthetic and conformist and cultural and all other possibilities and feelings, where this child is being treated from certain inferiority complexes, where he succeeds and stays for eight years in teaching periods and actually something that he could only see on television or in some other Catholic presentations, gets the opportunity to live in it. You know that this is very important for raising the dignity of that child, especially when it comes to less developed and poor areas. I consider this a kind of revolutionary message for education. True, in this case, it is the Shadow, and I know that some other cities and places are honored by these projects. What I know and believe is that it's not just a commitment to get such a school for some place and for some city, but that if God did, soon the country would be flooded in all its parts of such schools. This is something that, although it seems almost impossible, where we have several parallel phenomena, on the one hand, as I said, the struggle of the municipal administration to survive under debts accumulated over the past 20 years, and on the other hand, you have the ambience and news that you are getting about the bloody consequences of attempts by criminals who previously had a direct impact on that power so they can't live up to the fact that they can no longer manage those authorities who, unfortunately, have dared to commit blood-like murders. The struggle continues, the attempt of these criminals to master schools, to influence the members of the school boards, to appoint directors, in parallel to that dark side of the situation in the Shadow, which we believe to be part of the past, that is, the consequence of that past. But here you see, there are forces when the healthy forces want to work together, those healthy forces in Sjenica, those healthy forces here in Belgrade, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course both in the presidency and in the other structures of this system, we have these two parallel processes. On the one hand, the reckoning that it is definitely declared by its kind of surgical procedure to eliminate the influences of the criminal structures that have so far been strangling, choking, drinking the blood of the Shadows over the past decades, and now on the other hand, and while that calculation is going on, there is power, there is also the ability and ability to carry out projects like this. Next after this school, we also have a project to build a home of health. It is also a very important project for which all the necessary preparations are being carried out, etc. The project is also dedicated to our most important category, and these are children. On the other hand, what makes me happy is that for several months now, serious preparations have been under way for an extremely important foreign investment. Now, that might be the first major investment that comes to Sandzak, coming to the Sjenica area. It is also about investing tens of millions of euros in the energy sector, more specifically in solar power generation. It's an American company. Preparations are coming to an end. This, according to information, will be one of the most expensive or significant investments of this type in the country, perhaps in the Balkans, one of the largest solar energy producers. It's something that, in its nature, such an investment doesn't bring too many jobs because it's such a technology, but it brings enormous energy, huge investment. First, the production of electricity itself, then the revenues that will be realised, one of which will have a significant percentage of the municipalities of Sjenica, and then with infrastructure, asphalt and each other that will be made available to these villages. So, it's done, you see, as much as the world has been going through a depressing atmosphere, no matter how many of these fronts, fighting bloodthirsty criminals, fighting the hoof, but when you get the first people in the right place and you get the willingness of those people to put the general interest above their own, to look for in all the structures of the state and the authorities those who are good, normal, smart, selfless, who do their job right. In fact, these are just some of the initials, from the first but very important steps that show that at some point that is considered completely neglected, completely shut down. Selicians, through talks with them, thought that they were some punished category, so they invented various reasons why they were punished, so they felt that in decades they were punished for clashing with the 7th Montenegrin brigade of Partizanski, with Pek Dapcevic, who came down from Montenegro to Belgrade when the war was over. Then they came upon the mount of Jarut, and there our people did not know that World War II was over, they had no radio, and no one had told them, and they went out with guns, and they were used to it; whoever came up on the hill and shot, and they were so relaxed, and they were well-kept. Then that's where people are being persecuted. You know, back in that communist time. But in the Chamber, they felt that, among other things, they were punished for it and that nothing had happened for decades and that nothing had been invested. So it's not about that, it's about one municipality getting investments it has to have a host. So to put the money in the bag, you have to sew the bottom of the bag. You can't put it in a bag without the bottom of anything, because everything you put down is going down. So this is actually this illustration of the state and the possibilities, what awaits us, if God does, much more. Therefore, in this respect, our MPs will support the proposed changes and additions to this budget and continue to raise both the Sjenica and other investments in the Sandzak area and across the country together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9970	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly. He is the next representative of the JS Parliament Club, Mr Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9971	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, I've been listening to my previous colleague and I've been thinking whether it makes sense to start listing what's done, so enough in this calendar and budget year that's on the agenda today, and believe me, it would be Sisif's job. I am sure there are neither municipalities nor a city in Serbia that has not received one larger or smaller capital investment. When we talk today about budget rebalancing, what is most important to you, Minister, the JS parliamentary group will certainly support this budget rebalancing. We're not doing it declared, we're not just doing it because we're a coalition, we're doing it for a few reasons. The first reason was to achieve a surplus in this budget. So, we're not doing rebalancing to fix some mistakes, we're just having a bigger inflow than expected. For those of you who are also optimistic, somehow when you're making those budgets, you're being held back, you've got a brake, and that's good. The second reason is because you kept your word. When we voted in favour of this budget last year, you gave guidance in which this budget will move in difficult conditions which are certainly b or, above all, I mean pandemic, Mr. Minister, you did your job right. Here, we come by the end of the financial year and we see that everything is positive. The third reason why the JS parliamentary group will support this rebalancing, which is precisely the household business or that household budgeting you had. You have managed to build this household budget, and the word – domestic in Serbia means that you have succeeded in respecting all categories of society. I'm sure no one has been forgotten in this crisis, but besides, you haven't put yourself at risk, ie. It wasn't hitched and put into some risky business that some development of our economy. We can often see that you are criticized by critics on the media, and that's good. It's dangerous if you're criticized by critics, and I can see there's no interest in them. I've been following your work, since 2012, and what I can freely say is that every time you come to a function, it's been a very difficult function for you to realize and every time you get hot potatoes in your hands. It's no accident that somehow since that year 2012, I've been praising you, and I've had a chance to take part in the work of the Finance Committee ever since, and I know what kind of problems we've been going through. I can imagine your European colleagues, colleagues who have been inheriting arranged budgets for decades, who by nature things always have some calm water to sail on, and with us what you inherited and what you tried to correct, and here you have succeeded after ten years of working to correct and stabilise this budget, is not the only difficult environment. A daunting circumstance as some of the more developed countries do not have, and this is a constant threat from our southern province, and above all I mean a terrorist threat, because we've had different situations that the state has always had to respond to, and that we understand, in these days, if you don't have stable finances when we come into some crisis situation that is in history, when it comes to our southern province, we're somehow all safer, and above all, our army and our police when they know that the budget is stable. Then again, I come to this conclusion that all these critics are hitting on you more and more, you're getting better results. If we need to be specific ministers and talk about concrete things, these are facts now. So, the biggest global crisis, and our budget is stronger by a billion and a half. The economy is never more resistant to the crisis. Our capital investments are growing. Public debt levels are under control. It's never invested in infrastructure again. The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which was not a custom, praises and they see and accept 7% of GDP growth. We are being placed in three top countries in Europe for GDP growth. What's most appropriate for people who don't have much to understand about finance, which is the state of the account. At this point in the account we have 372 billion if I'm not mistaken, that's what you said on the Finance Committee yesterday. In addition to what I've listed, social policy is more pronounced in terms of helping the population because of the pandemics than in any other country in the environment. I'm not saying now that I'm taxing on what you said and what my colleagues are probably going to say today is that everyone is being helped in this pandemic, and the list is not small. Exactly because of such a responsible policy, JS will support this rebalancing. What I must point out, which is that you ministers since 2012 along with all the members of the government who have changed, some have left, some have come new, have managed to get into history, because this data we have today certainly deserves every praise and every attention. In this rebalancing you're looking forward again, and that's good, so this isn't just rebalancing, and this isn't just about this year's moves, with this rebalancing, you're making it easier for everyone in the next financial year. In this rebalancing, what I want to point out is, the funds for the development of agriculture are increasing to an additional 2.7 billion, now it's over 60 billion in total, if we look at the whole budget year. This will certainly make it easier for farmers to work. Why am I focusing at first, Minister, on agriculture? We currently have an energy crisis, I don't mean like Serbia, but the general energy crisis has affected a larger environment, but I can say the world economy freely. We, because of our responsible policy and good relations with the Russian Federation, have, I can say, the privileged price of gas, we have a stable contract that guarantees both the supply and the price of that gas by the end of this year. But what is the consequence of such a situation when the concrete gas has, in a very short time, collected drastically? The result is that a large number of factories dealing with the production of artificial fertilisers have been closed. Mr. Minister, the state of the field is such that artificial fertilizer is almost twice as expensive, it has nothing to do with us, but it's something that's going to hit us anyway. That's why agriculture will meet the big problem in the coming period, and that's how it can keep food prices as high as it is now. That's why I'm grateful for these 2.7 billion you've raised, but because of that artificial fertilizer price, Minister, we're going to have to think, if not in this one, then at least at the beginning of next financial year, how do we get to the farmers to meet, because if we start with an increase in agricultural production, which is evident due to the cost of artificial fertilizer, I'm sure that the price of food products will rise. Significant increases are also in the area of tourism. I come from a tourist resort, I come from Vrnjačka Banja, and I'm sure, because I've talked to a lot of hotelers and a lot of travel agencies owners, what happened to them at the beginning of this pandemic crisis, and I know how difficult it was for them, of course, as well as everyone else. What's a fact, it's that you've managed to help each other, and thank you for that. Yesterday, on the Committee on Economy, we commented on a little more detailed tourism ministry and what changes they expect in their financial plan, when it comes to this rebalancing. A fellow Krstic from the Shop, I don't see him here, yesterday he made a good proposal, which is that we should certainly stimulate and help everyone, but maybe we should pay a little more attention to those tourist agencies that bring guests to Serbia, and for them, maybe we should do some special stimulating program. What is interesting and important for all citizens of Serbia, is that in this rebalancing, when it comes to the tourism ministry, significant financial resources will be allocated to the digitisation of the Republic of Serbia's tourist offer. It is a good project within which a state booking will be made for booking and paying accommodations and via an app, via a mobile phone, everyone, wherever they are in Serbia, will have that one of their own personal tourist assistants. Why is this project good? This project is good because it does not only apply to tourist resorts, it applies to all municipalities and all cities in Serbia. Simply, we will have the opportunity to start in every municipality, in every city we have two sights that will automatically be on that app, and then depending on the effort and work of each local self-government, the number of these objects will increase. There's a big job ahead of us when it comes to fiscalization. Here you have allocated an additional six billion for the realization of this one large and large project. For those of you who have been in business before, when we first started doing fiscalization, they know it wasn't like it was today. When fiscalization was introduced, each had a cost, each of them had to allocate certain funds from their business to buy a fiscal register, so that they could even comply with the law. What's for every commendation and what entrepreneurs, ministers, comment on, is that this time they have no extra costs. This time the state made an effort to complete the fiscalization, i.e. In exchange for hardware and new software, all costs are covered by the state. I'd also like to commend the dispensation for the sport. You pointed out earlier that an additional 2.3 billion dinars were provided and listed how many new sports facilities are being done. Why does it matter? Well, it's important because through this pandemic crisis that we've been through, and everyone has a feeling that somehow everything will stop, but you've said it nicely -- life can't stop, we have to think about how someone's gonna make a rock now, so it could divide into things that matter or that's less important. In fact, it's all about life. Minister, I'll quote you. You said yesterday on the Committee on Finance – it is important that we maintained optimism with citizens. In fact, it may seem so irrelevant to the whole situation we've been in, but, Minister, it's one difficult task that we've all been able to go through together. What's for sure, optimism in people you've preserved, the pandemic is nearing its end. Unfortunately, we've suffered great casualties, we're neither smaller nor bigger than the average that hit the whole world, when we talk about our closest environment and Europe, but what I have a feeling we've all succeeded together is to keep that optimism in people. Since we had guests on the Finance Committee yesterday, there were people from the National Bank of Serbia, there were people from the Fiscal Council, I today, since I'm talking about rebalancing and budget, I have to mention them, of course. I will not talk much about the National Bank of Serbia and Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic, because if I start to talk I will repeat my discussions from some earlier periods where I had words to praise for the National Bank of Serbia, because they have managed to keep some of our monetary policy at a stable level, and what is seen and what is more than obvious is that monetary and fiscal policy is harmonised and that you and the National Bank of Serbia act as one team. So, when it comes to the National Bank of Serbia and your ministry, I wouldn't change anything. When we talk about the Fiscal Council, when we talk about Professor... Pavel Petrovic, I have tried to understand them in some previous rebalances or budgets. I had a feeling that they were extremely well-intentioned to point out some things. Now, after what I heard on the board yesterday, I'm more than confused. I get the feeling they're always looking for some grudges, I feel like we're not on the same side. I absolutely do not dispute Mr. Pavel Petrovic's qualifications that he is in the place where he is located, but I do not see his good will to do so his knowledge and experience which he has to benefit any rebalancing or any new budget that we are working on. We had a chance yesterday to hear their comments about the 2022 budget year. Look, it wasn't a topic, nor was we dealing with it, half the reports we received from the Fiscal Council refer to the creation of a new budget. What I am as a citizen, now I do not speak as a MP, guesses, and I believe most of the citizens are situations where someone can give himself the right to criticise the way the hospital was made, how they invested in health care. Even in one part of the commentary, it is noted that significant means have been allocated for the completion of the temple of the Holy Sava. At some point, the way you helped, not you personally, is criticised, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as helping people to pay off money in this crisis. What made a positive impression on me yesterday, you asked Mr. Pavel Petrovic to make a better suggestion on how he thinks we should do it. That's where I'm disappointed. We haven't received a proposal, so there are still people who are classified as critics, not critics, because a critic can always tell you -- well, listen, you're wrong here, if you do this, or at least I suggest you do this, it'll be okay. No, they say this is not good. You say: "And how do you think it is good, which category should we throw out, to whom shall we say: "Hey, you are not the one who should receive help from the state, and all have received it?" He didn't have the answer to that question. So, Minister, I repeat that attitude – the more critics there are, the better you get results and, if we continue like this, there is no winter for Serbia. I said we're not Switzerland, we're not Austria, we're not Norway, we're not Sweden, but like all of them, we have to make budget rebalances. Why am I saying this and why am I potential this? Because they don't have the problems we're dealing with. We've all had a crisis, it's not a dispute, but a terrorist in the southern province, like we have, these countries don't. They don't have a house on the road, like we do, and around that house there's always some different interests. So, making a budget in the Republic of Serbia is twice as difficult as any other country located elsewhere, not exactly where we are. But, as you say, it is our job, in addition to everything else, to spread optimism, and so I will take this opportunity to welcome you on behalf of the delegation that went to Egypt, a delegation led by Dragan Markovic Palma, the president of the JS and the parliamentary group that I belong to. I want to inform you that in that delegation there are 150 members, that there are 122 doctors, along with medical staff, and these are the people who have suffered the greatest burden of covidemia, with them are a small number of journalists and businessmen. This is neither the first nor the last delegation that Dragan Markovic Palma, in front of the JS, but above all in front of Serbia, and each delegation as a consequence of such a trip spreads a better picture of Serbia and we are trying to correct a wrong picture, as Serbia had about ten years ago. So, each of these hosts, which are mostly officials of these countries, wait, receive that delegation and always get accurate information about what is currently going on in Serbia. In these delegations, doctors are now, but besides them, they have always been businessmen and farmers, they have been delegations with students, with educators, with craftsmen. Why do I say this, Minister? I'm saying because from the position in which the JS is located, you know that Draga Markovic Palma is not a minister, you know that we don't have resources in state bodies, we certainly support everything the government is doing, but I want to tell you that there's always a way that whoever wants to help the state, that whoever wants to help the government can do it in some original way. Well, this is a message to all these critics, this is a message to the Fiscal Council, and find a way to help. Everyone can criticise, and only those who think well of Serbia and the Serb people can help. Of course, I mention all these trips that I've been talking about, they're not paid from the budget. I repeat, JS will support this budget rebalance, that I wish you to continue working like this and for Serbia there is no winter.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9972	I thank you, Reverend Vujic. Answer, Proposer, Honorary Minister, Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vujici, just a few comments on your exposure, one small correction that is in favour of the citizens of Serbia. So this morning when I was checking the account, we had 373.9 billion dinars in our account. So, a little more than yesterday, but it is over three billion euros for you, respected citizens of Serbia, respected MPs. So we're absolutely liquid, we have money in the account, we meet all our obligations in the dinar, in the day. All the promises the president made, we also keep in the dinar in the day. This is a picture of a completely different Serbia. The reason why we're doing this rebalancing is because there's more inflow into the budget, there's better tax charge, there's more business activity, there's a retained number of employees. We don't have these big layoffs, closing production plants, as you have the opportunity to see in some other and larger and stronger economies than ours. A successful picture of Serbia, and I am as finance minister, of course, and as an individual who participates in it, is very proud, but this is the result of the work of all of us, all of you, our president, the entire government, all of Serbia's citizens. I think when you mentioned optimism, when it comes to our economy. Yes, that optimism is there, so the citizens saw that they could count on our country when it comes to the crisis, when everyone was panicking, what, how and where to react, when the pandemic of the coronary virus was last year when it started. Our president has very determined two fronts, one – we are fighting for the health of our economy, two – we are fighting for the health of our citizens. We've built three hoofs of hospitals in the meantime, a whole new hospital. I'm saying, we're building something that's the first vaccine factory in our country, and in the meantime, through three aid packages, we've fought for our economy. So on that side, I think we've shown in the right way how it's worth it and how it's supposed to fight for our country. The topic you mentioned is very important for the Ministry of Finance, which is the topic of e-fiscalization, so a new model of fiscalization. The existing model, I'll remind you, dates back to 2003. This new model opens up a new page in our country's fiscal system, especially by combining it with the introduction of electronic invoices. So we want to ensure in our economy an even more transparent way of doing business, to be even more competitive, even more attractive than the few countries, even in Europe. This new fiscalization system that you know, if you haven't already heard, it will allow those who are fiscal bonds to issue bills on both the mobile phone and the tablet. So it's not just those old bulky fiscal devices. In doing so, the economy has great benefits. In fact, the fight against the gray economy, the fight against unfair competition, will enable those working in accordance with the law to do much better, you will not have some annual service of fiscal devices that were now mandatory. You won't have those spare paper rolls and so on. The economy of Serbia's chambers has designed and calculated that around 10m euros in the economy saves only at those costs. We go with a system that is completely different, completely new and simple that allows our economy to be much more successful. Of course, you mentioned earlier, yes, we're different from the others, and we said that the whole cost of introducing a new system would be covered. So in budget rebalance you have three billion dinars extra on the already existing three, so six billion dinars in total. We will fully cover the cost of introducing a new fiscalization system. I have to call all our businessmen once more to register if they want to, of course, this subsidy. The subsidy is 100 euros per point of sale, 100 euros per fiscal device. We already paid off our first subsidies yesterday for the first several thousand companies to apply. We'll pay off these subsidies every week. So, I call on the businessmen, sign up as soon as possible to cover that cost, so you can get the equipment you need. The transitional period for the introduction of a new fiscalisation system is valid from 1 November to the end of April of the following year, and after that we will only have a new fiscalisation system that will change the way we operate in many ways, give us another strong weapon in the fight against the gray economy and give us a picture of one more orderly and stronger Serbia on the other. What I forgot to say, two things only if you let me, when it comes to budget rebalance. One very important thing about our social policy. We have identified two of the most significant projects for which we have provided 1.5 billion dinars in budget rebalancing, which is the beginning of the reconstruction of the House for the Accommodation of the Old Kulins in Aleksinac, a very important project for us and we have provided money for the reconstruction of the House for Children on Youth in Belgrade, Zvecanska. One example of responsible social policy that we are proud of and, as you see little money just to find the free one, we will always give it and direct it to those who need our help most. One more comment on the challenges that await us next year, and we'll talk about it when we talk about the 2022 budget. So, the major challenges are currently in the global economy, the challenges that apply to the pandemic of the coronal virus, which clearly shows its variants of various mutations, unfortunately it is not calmed down, so this health risk remains, and we address it in the way we invest in the reconstruction of homes of health, clinical centres continue to obtain vaccines, new modern medicines, to fight it. My wish is only to invite all citizens of Serbia to be vaccinated as soon as possible because it is the only way to cope with the pandemic of this disease. In any case, it's something that we've been prioritizing and we've been dealing with for 18 months and we've got enough money on the RFZO account to buy and pay for all these drugs and all these necessary and treatment and vaccines and everything else in time. What is a potential challenge for all of us, this is the energy crisis, as you see in the world, you have a sudden rise in price and gas, so energy, fuel, oil, electricity, influence, of course, and the Serbian economy exists. We are also currently considering a number of alternatives to the modality in which we try to help, support our economy or mitigate the negative consequences of it, and we will talk more about it when we talk about the budget for 2022. It is very important for the citizens of Serbia to hear that we are aware, as always, of all the challenges facing the global economy, of course, our environment and our country, as we are responsible, in time, quickly, efficiently, fully responded to the pandemic of the Corones. Thus, we will respond to any additional challenge if the need arises. There's money in the account. I just said, this morning 373.9 billion dinars, so the money is there, we're completely macroeconomically stable, every indicator that you think is stable, strong, solid, like our country, we'll simply solve those challenges if they show up. But, I say, trust has already developed, security is there, the state is there to help and to vote for every new job, but also for every additional penny of salary increase, pension increase, every latest drug that appears on the market, we ensure that Serbian citizens have it, so on this side I am extremely satisfied with the responsible policy we have in all social areas, but thank you for reminding me to say something about these challenges and ultimately to correct you for that 1.5 billion, so 373.9 billion dinars this morning. We're absolutely stable on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9974	Thank you. The next is the honourable MP and representative of the SDPS parliamentary club, Mr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9975	Dear Vice-President, I will point out right from the start that the SDPS parliamentary group will be happy to vote for this second budget rebalance in 2021. Why? Well, first of all, the rebalancing is well projected, realistic, it's made by a conservative method, which tells us that everything that stands here will be realized. I'm an optimist, I'm not easily optimistic, but I'm sure some indicators will be much better, and I'll talk about them in further exposure. You know, Serbia has stable and sustainable finances. I must stress this to the citizens of Serbia and therefore all these difficult times, and Kovid 19 is an extremely difficult time for the whole world, including for Serbia. We have adequate answers on these two fronts, as you said in your presentation. One front is the health of citizens and the struggle to do as much as possible in that field and the other front where we fight the battle, which is to keep our economy. But we see for ourselves that the economy has really shown resistance, that it is tough, and that is very good. Why am I stressing that? So we have continuity in financial policy. It didn't come into existence today, it started from 2014 when we started financial consolidation, where we went through a difficult period, but we created healthy bases, healthy bases that we are talking about today, and we can give adequate answers for all the crises that have been so far. Unfortunately, the Kovida 19 crisis will not be over quickly, and I am taking this opportunity to keep stressing, asking Serbian citizens to vaccinate for a simple reason, this will also mean fighting for their health, but also fighting for our economy. I can't understand that despite the fact that we have four vaccines, we have just over 50% of the vaccinated citizens of Serbia. To point out, in one China, you now have 96% of the people who have been vaccinated. The battle is won, if certain rules are followed and anyone who respects those rules can certainly count on results. I also said for the 2021 budget that he was real, stable, and that he represents continuity. I am very glad that we respect this continuity and if we continue this way, Serbia will be very different in 5 or 10 years, and it is already different, but it will be significantly different. I'll start with some categories. You know, we're talking about GDP. I have to point out when in November last year, when I was talking about the budget, I was a little skeptical, because 6% at the time of the pandemic was a really big result, and you see in 2021, we're talking about 7% of GDP growth. I think he'll be even greater than 7% by the end of the year, spreading that optimism, and I'm sure of it. To be clear, Serbia must have a much bigger GDP, and we will not reach it easily, in 2022 we are expected to have GDP growth 4.5% and 4% in 2023. You know, Serbia must have these higher rates, so that with our 50, slightly more than 49 points of some billion euros, we can raise our GDP, and then we can do a lot more to make new highways and new roads, new hospitals, new schools and all that is very important. We from the past have very negative experiences about the fiscal deficit. You know, 6.7% was planned for this year. It's not small. I also made a recommendation about the rebalancing, the fact that all that is needed for the health of citizens, for the preservation of the economy, should really be financed, regardless of the deficit. We are in this year, precisely because of these good results, we have already come to have a fiscal deficit of 4.9%. I'm sure he'll be there by the end of the year, and below 4.9%, which is very good for Serbia. Mr. Minister, you stressed in your presentation that we are making rebalancing due to surplus income, almost per item, and that is good, this surplus income is somewhere of 1.7 billion euros, as we have already had higher expenditures of about 800m euros, and that means we have reduced the fiscal deficit by 900m euros, which means we have the opportunity to invest in other areas and what is important to you and what you have pointed out. The orientation that has always been an investment in public investment is a legitimate orientation for the simple reason, public investment, roads, tomorrow will give Serbia a much greater opportunity to move forward and that we have exactly the GDP that we want, the growth rates between 4 and 5%, and that is what Serbia needs for a longer period of time, and that we have arranged and arranged finances, as shown by the previous 2020, because we had the smallest drop of only 0.9 GDP, when other countries in our environment had 12, 15% of GDP. What I always like to talk about, which is the public debt of the general state. You know, in 2021, it's going to be 58.5% of the gross social product. I'm sure he'll be lower. I expect it. But I asked you here last year whether public debt would be lower than 60% of the Mastricht conditions, you said before the National Assembly - it would not be reached. You kept your word, that's very good. I would not compromise that some countries are much more developed, which have a larger gross social product than Serbia have a greater public debt. For Serbia, for our economy, that debt is somewhere that optimal limit we can go so we don't get into debt slavery tomorrow. It's that red line of Mastricht. I always said I liked red lines. Therefore, follow the rules and those red lines that are spoken of here. One of the topics I've already raised in my speech, which is public investment. In times of crisis, public investment in this area means a way out of a difficult situation. You know, 7.8% of the gross social product, which is a record-high level, I would even use the word impressive. I follow public investment, I know when it was less than 2%, I dreamed it would be 5%. We now have 7.8%. You know, that's very good. You were talking about nine highways that started to build. Some will be finished in March, which is from Pojat to Kruševac, that part of the route. A fast track will be open for Belgrade – Novi Sad, I expected, and it will probably start operating by the end of this year, I expected to come for the 2021 budget on that fast train, but here I will wait until March of the month, and then I will take a ride. But we allocate significantly higher resources for infrastructure and this rebalance makes it 400m euros, goes to infrastructure, goes to health care. You know, as someone who lives in Novi Sad, I'm proud of the covid hospital. Behind a hill that existed there, in three months you received an extraordinary hospital. You should see, that's what's visible, which is obvious, which, unfortunately, is loaded because of all of these events, which means that it was pre-predicted, what can happen, can't even surprise us in this crisis. We always have an answer. I wish the hospital was empty and became a city hospital, which I expect. Of course, all of this was done, it was done well, for a simple reason, very quickly in 2021 we arrived in the economy at the level of 2019, that means the level that was before the outbreak of covids. We kept our jobs. She's at the same level as 2019. Salaries not to be cut, they grew both nominally and realistically. It also applies to pensions, they grew both nominally and realistically. Although there is a major crisis, we have foreign direct investments that are 2.7 billion euros by October this year. You know, that means that foreigners have confidence in what's happening in Serbia, along with the stability of its economy and are ready to invest in our country. Of course, none of this would have happened if it hadn't been for adequate financial policy and financial and monetary policies. We have a stable exchange rate, which is very stable at the time of this crisis. The word was, we were talking to the Finance Committee yesterday about the reserves. You know, the National Bank reserves, gross, amount to 6.8 billion euros, of which 3.3 billion are just at the time of this pandemic of purchased money. We have 36.9 tons of gold. You know, that's a lot of results. And for me, the biggest result is that two months in 2021, the PIO Fund did not withdraw funds from the budget. I don't remember it ever was. This means the PIO Fund did not withdraw funds from the budget, which means employees' contributions were enough to pay out pensions in Serbia. He said himself I stand at that point of view that I expect better results by the end of the year. That's what these indicators that I've listed, what you've been saying about the state of the budget, are giving me, the state of the budget. Of course, there are risks. We didn't talk about them today. We talked about them a little bit. The biggest risk is the energy issue. As you can see, energy goes very well at the price, oscillates, I mean gas and electricity. I expect, follow those indicators, that we'll have the right answers to all of that. Second, inflation. We're not hiding, yes, inflation is in September, it's 5.7% annual. I expect by the end of the year she'll be somewhere at 4%. This inflation somewhere in the first quarter of next year will be in that corridor that is planned, which means I expect 3%, but let's see how it goes, because we have an increase in food prices, an increase in some other significant products, and that's happening in our country, not only because Serbia has done something of itself, but we are part of Europe, part of that world. A lot of what's going on out there is going on over Serbia. We must keep emphasising and providing adequate answers to these questions, for this will warn us of a future crisis. I don't expect, knowing we have stable finances, a stable economy, some bigger surprises. These surprises will not happen if we regularly follow and give answers. The rebalancing we're discussing today is what I consider an overture as the first step to the 2022 budget. You have a good base. This basis is that you can also have this budget that we expect next month, and we will discuss it, which is that this budget will also mean continuity with this policy that has so far produced results and that we expect something that is better. I know, when we talk about pensions, pensions are very important. We have 1,700,000 pensioners. The Swiss formula has produced good results and should continue with it, for the simple reason that we have reduced all pensions to 10.5% of GDP somewhere, and that is good, because any major oscillation can no longer happen, and pensions will always be paid in time, with an increase that will be adequate in line with the growth of the economy and that is certain. I also have to talk about public sector wages. My favorite theme is pay grade. I'll always remind you of paying classes, because I think that this segment of public sector pay also needs to be arranged by some rule, whether it's paid classes, I know it's too complex and difficult to do, but it's possible to go step by step and introduce some objective economic criteria so we don't have any surprises. As Social Democrats, as SDPS representative Rasim Ljajic, I appreciate the fact that you have increased the minimum wage by 9.4%, that it is 35.012 dinars. That's good. I expect that in the social dialogue with the trade unions, you will get to some target that has been set as soon as possible, which is that the minimum plan covers the minimum consumer basket. I'm expecting it in the next two years, and I'd like you to make me that promise. Another one of the topics I keep talking about, and these are the objectives of sustainable development. I am pleased with the fact that you have allocated significant resources for sewers, water purifiers, sustainable economy, deposit management, etc. It's a significant asset. Following what's going on in local self-governments, I'm afraid everyone's racing to get those funds, to get into work, not have enough projects, that there's no rational approach. You know, as a state, there's got to be a strategy where and how we're going and that's exactly that rational approach. You know, not every municipality needs to have a water purifier or we all have everything. We need to find what's most optimistic, and that's one of the areas where we're going to invest a lot in the green economy in the next period, green energy, and that's what you'll probably be more isolated in the next period. I look forward to that fact, and it went much better than the second rebalancing last year. Of course, I, Mr. Minister, am very happy with your enthusiasm, and I said that about the 2021 budget, and when you explained what you believe in what you say, you keep your word and you do it. I'd just like that reality of yours to continue to be expressed in the 2022 budget. I expect much more favourable news and more favourable projections, although you are cautious and often use a conservative method, but that is why your promises are being fulfilled. In the end, I will stress that the SDPS parliamentary group will be happy to vote for this rebalancing, because this will mean the continuity of the financial stability that we have and as soon as we finish this story around the crown, because if we don't finish this story, we will not have any workers, no economy, because the economy and the state are made up of people, healthy people, who are ready to work. That's why I'm finishing up again. Vaccination, vaccination, vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9976	Thank you, Mr. Miatovic. The next nation is Ambassador Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9977	I thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Ministers, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us an amendment to the act on the budget for 2021 and at the very beginning I have to agree with Professor Mijatovic - one continuity of economic stability, because Serbia has entered a strong and economically stable year with full confidence that we will realise the projected rate of GDP of 6%, and we are reaching a projected GDP rate of 7%. We're over 7% convinced. When it comes to amending and supplementing the act on the budget for 2021, what do I say, positive, developmental, but I must especially stress and, above all, socially responsible. It is socially responsible in addition to development policy through infrastructure projects, capital investments. So the state continues to run an economic-social, responsible policy in which it is based is a common man, a citizen of Serbia and a standard of living for Serbian citizens. The state currently, as the minister said at the Finance Committee, has more than 300 billion dinars and continues with a policy of raising living standards and investing in infrastructure. We've achieved the result. We are not talking today about budget rebalancing because we have expenditure, but because we have achieved a good result. We got the result better than we expected for 183 billion dinars. So we're changing the Budget Law because we've achieved results that are better than the ones we've planned. Compared to the April rebalancing, the fiscal deficit has been reduced to 304.5 billion dinars, and to the greatest extent due to significantly better revenue realisation. Thus, the proposed rebalance also envisions a deficit of the republican budget and, instead of 6.9% of GDP, now stands at 4.9% of GDP, which is a very significant result. With such a planned deficit, public debt at the end of 2021 will, as you said, amount to 58.2% of GDP, which is less than the Mastricht level of 60%, and not to explain again what Mastricht is and of which year the Mastricht was introduced and for what reasons. The pandemic caused by the coronary virus has affected the country's economic policy, but thanks, above all, to the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to reduce the negative effects of the pandemic on the economic system, the state has saved the economy, maintained it on stable legs, preserved production capacities, preserved jobs, secured liquidity and maintained citizens' living standards, which is essential. So the state reacted in good time and in time implemented the first and second economic assistance package for citizens and businesses, and the third package is currently being implemented. So the state, I'll remind you, has singled out 961.1 billion dinars to help citizens and businesses since the start of the coronary pandemic to this day. That's about right, correct me if I'm wrong, about 17.2% of GDP. The question arises is whether a country in the world, whether a country in Europe has taken on such a burden of crisis on itself. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of Serbia, has shown one responsible and serious economic policy, a cautious economic policy, although these, as I say, representatives of independent regulatory bodies very often tell us that we are careless, but with one cautious policy, have managed to show that the system works when the system is most difficult and not only the system works, but also to achieve good economic indicators. In 2020, with the exception of 100 euros in helping all Serbian citizens, pensioners, I will remind them, have received additional money from the state on several occasions, primarily 4,000 dinars, then 5,000 dinars. This year, all full-time citizens of our country will receive 60 euros, or twice 30 euros, and an additional 20 euros will be paid in December. Pensioners also received an additional 50 euros in aid this year and an unemployed 60 euros, all vaccinated at 3,000 dinars. The 100-euro aid, which should be pointed out in particular, was given to Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, including children, while the unemployed received an additional 100 euros. I only mention some of the government's measures to mitigate the root of the virus, which is to pay three minimum earnings for more than a million employees, tax evasion and profit-deposits for three months, more favourable loans through a guarantee scheme with commercial banks and through the Development Fund, was also put on the moratorium over the repayment of the loan, first in three months, and then for another two, which took advantage of as much as 90% of the citizens in charge. Responsible economic policy management and the good situation in the budget have made it possible to provide funding for additional funding through rebalances today, notably infrastructure and capital projects. Every investment in infrastructure encourages, of course, economic growth, employs the economy, opens and maintains new jobs. No economics without infrastructure development. The construction of infrastructure is a prerequisite for the arrival of investors. Last year, Serbia attracted foreign investments worth three billion euros, and in the period from January to July, I think, about 1,902 billion euros. Serbia is at the top of European countries for foreign investment, and it is precisely foreign direct investment that depends on the country's progress, financial growth, and the payment of salaries and pensions. The 2021 budget rebalance for capital investments singled out even 3,088,094 billion dinars. I'll remind the public first of all, I'm not saying this because of you, Mr. Minister, and because of my colleagues, but with the previous rebalancing, we've singled out 330, in fact, with the budget, we've allocated 333 billion dinars, which was 5.5% of GDP, and then another 88 billion dinars. Most of the funds are defined to increase state investment in infrastructure and health. When, in particular, traffic infrastructure, you talked about it, the money was set aside for the construction of the road E 761 shares Pojate-Preljina, highway E 763 shares of Novi Belgrade – Surcin, then for the construction of a fast traffic loop Požarec – Golubac, as well as for the Belgrade subway. I hear from some of you call the opposition political parties, today in the daily press specifically, it says that the Belgrade subway is a pre-election promise. Well, how could it be a pre-election promise if we were to raise five billion and 10 million dinars with this rebalance instead of three billion? After all, the results will ultimately show this way of handling and how right they are with these findings. Serbia is developing infrastructure. We're building highways more than ever. 350km of highways have been built, 370km of highways are being built and another 300km is being prepared. It's important that we infrastructureise the country. Rebalance predicts, of course, and a continuation of major investment in health care. A significant increase in funds is planned to build the vaccine factory, then to build and equip the Kovid hospital in Novi Sad, there is a reconstruction of KC Serbia, as well as of KC Belgrade. Investment in the construction of traffic infrastructure, as well as investment in the construction and equipment of new hospitals and vaccine factories, is twice useful. This develops and improves the infrastructure itself, improves the quality of public services, thus improving the quality of life of citizens. The rebalancing set aside money to build Serbia-Bulgaria's gas interconnector, build a Data Centre in Kragujevac, and pay an additional 20 euros to help citizens in December. The success of economic packages to help citizens and businesses has been confirmed primarily by labour market movements. Not only did we save jobs, but despite the pandemic, despite the huge problems in the economy, we increased the minimum labour price and increased wages and pensions. Last year's minimum labour price rose by 6.6%. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Finance, the government of the Republic of Serbia, made a decision this year to increase the minimum labour price by as much as 9.4%. Salaries increased by about 5%, while the pension increase was 5.9% in the Swiss model. Under the "Serbia 2025" programme, the country's goal is to pay the average salary in Serbia by 2025, 900 euros and the average pension of 470 euros. I think this kind of rebalancing and this kind of economic policy is the path that leads to the realisation of this goal. Serbia had one of the smallest GDP declines in Europe last year, and I am sure that at the end of this year it will realise a projected 7% GDP rate. We would like it to be over 7%, but it's quite enough and 7% since we started since 2021, I repeat, with full confidence that we will realize the projected rate of GDP of 6%. We have confirmed our dominant position in the region, when it comes to economy and economy. Our economy is recovering faster. We have shown that we are more resistant to the crisis and that the state has responded in the right way with all three aid packages. The state is constantly working on the measures it aims to further accelerate economic activity, preserve jobs, but also as you said in the opening exhibition maintaining overall macroeconomic stability. However, in order to allow for the continuation of positive market movements, the immunisation of the population is necessary. We need to get to collective immunity as soon as possible to open the economy completely. Let me remind you that we have defined three pillars of development by the 2021 budget to get to that final goal. The first pillar is certainly a battle against the Kovids, the second pillar is the standard of living of citizens and the third pillar is the separation for capital investments. When it comes to fighting the crown of the virus, we are one of the few states that has all the vaccines. The state has allocated huge money to health care, to the construction and equipment of covid hospitals, to the vaccine factory, as I said, and if the state has shown such a responsible approach to citizens is now to show a minimum degree of personal responsibility. To finally get out of this situation, everyone needs to be vaccinated. That way we protect ourselves, protect our loved ones, protect the ones we face daily, the ones we work with and whose environment we find ourselves in. I am pleased that the European Commission, in fact, is happy to the MP of the SPS Group that the European Commission has in its progress report Serbia has found that Serbia has managed to preserve the economy despite the difficult circumstances caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus. It is particularly pointed out that thanks to exceptional growth in the pre-crisis period, we have managed to significantly mitigate the effects of the pandemic. The European Union has recognised the progress made by Serbia and the current government headed by the President of the Republic thanks to the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was based in 2014 on growth, reforms, development, progress and prosperity. It turns out the system works, like I said, and then when it's the hardest. Of course, the SPS Parliamentary Group will support amendments and additions to the 2021 Budget Law in the voting day, and we are absolutely sure that Serbia will enter a strong, economically stable economy in 2022, which, of course, was on stable feet as in 2021. A few more words at the very end, given that we recently had the opportunity to talk to representatives of independent regulatory bodies through the review of the report on the work of independent regulatory bodies, and that representatives of independent regulatory bodies attended the meetings of the Finance Committee, we have absolutely no intention of putting pressure on the work of independent regulatory bodies. It is our obligation to strengthen the work of independent regulatory bodies, but also to monitor whether independent regulatory bodies work in accordance with the law. I had the opportunity to look at the Fiscal Council's report when it was specifically about the amendments and additions to the act of the budget for 2021 and my first question, if they were present, would they have held a session at which they formed this report? Because, you know, it's hard in these terms of the pandemic to gather three members and hold a session and do one analysis when it comes to amending and supplementing the act on the budget for 2021. I understand these difficulties, but I don't understand certain suggestions and suggestions they've made, and it's specifically about non-transparentity. The SPS Group believes that if ever it was transparent, today it is, and from the pandemic period to today, the most transparent. A second suggestion, 20 euros divided by all, as well as 3,000 dinars for vaccines. So this is a similar suggestion and criticism that we have had and when we share all the adult figures of 100 euros. The best answer to the criticism is that 6.2 million citizens have accepted 100 euros in aid and that it is in fact trying to reduce poverty first in Serbia, and on the other hand to have a psychological impact on Serbian citizens in this difficult time, but also to increase spending. I personally asked the professor I greatly respect - how did his employees at the Fiscal Council feel when they received those 100 euros, or when they accepted and took that 100-euro support, and they were the ones who made up the report that allegedly criticized this measure? This is not the measure that Serbia invented, this is the measure used by large world economies, such as Japan and the United States. But, well, it's up to independent regulatory bodies to do their job. What's important to us is just to distinguish the level of responsibility. Our responsibility is great, as is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as is the President of the Republic of Serbia, and this is a responsibility to the citizens. The responsibility of those who represent independent regulatory bodies is simply to submit a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on amendments and additions to the Budget Law or on the budget, to make certain suggestions and proposals, to agree or disagree and to end their powers. But, I say, I hope at least that this session of the Fiscal Council was held, although I understand the difficult situation of the pandemic, that it is really difficult to bring together three members and organise maximum precautionary measures, as we do here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you, dear ministers, and I repeat again -- the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will certainly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9978	I thank Mr. Milicevic. The next is MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9979	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers with an associate, ladies and gentlemen, is ahead of us with a second budget rebalance for 2021. We voted first rebalancing in April of this year. In this second budget rebalance for 2021 total revenues and revenues are 1,488 billion dinars, which is 132 billion dinars higher than the amount of revenue planned for the first budget rebalance for this year, while the increase is significantly higher than the planned revenues in the initial budget for 2021, which is in the amount of 152 billion dinars. The estimated expenditures and expenditures are this second rebalance of 1,793 billion dinars, which is 24.5 billion more than the planned amount of the first budget rebalance. The total deficit is 305 billion dinars, which is 107 billion dinars less than anticipated by the rebalancing in April. This is largely due to significantly better revenue collection. At the level of the general state, the planned fiscal deficit is 4.9% of GDP, 2% less than expected by the budget rebalance in April. Last year, in budget planning for 2021, we said the revenues were conservatively planned. Despite such conservative planning, we had a growth in income in both the first and the second and the third quarter of this year. And now we can say that planning revenue in this rebalancing is conservative. Tax revenues are planned at 1.279 billion dinars, an increase of 111 billion dinars for the previous budget, and non-tax revenues of 192 billion dinars have increased about 21 billion dinars. In the new income projection, almost all categories of income have seen growth relative to the previous projection, while the biggest positive changes record corporate income tax and additional value tax. The factors that led to the change in the structure of budget revenues are the acceleration of economic activity, i.e. the revision of the real GDP growth rate from 6% to 7%, favourable labour market movements, payments of initially unplanned non-tax revenues, a positive impact of the economic measures programme on personal consumption. Of course, as I said conservative approach to planning certain categories of tax revenue, such as profit tax, VAT. We have significantly increased expenditure in previous rebalancing, which was adopted in April. We have increased due to the third package of support for businesses and citizens, due to an increase in capital investment in traffic, in health care. With us, the state carries the burden of this crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus. No country has given as much incentive to its economy as ours. No country in the environment, and in Europe has given as much help to its citizens as our country has. The state has given assistance to entrepreneurs, micro, small, medium-sized businesses, to survive the crisis, causing the pandemic. The state has helped its citizens, pensioners, workers, unemployed. Giving these aids is still going on. As we heard, 30 euros in financial support will be paid from 1 November to all full-time citizens of Serbia who have already applied for this type of assistance. The pensioners will receive it on November 1st and other citizens on November 2nd and 3rd. This financial support is being implemented under the third economic support package of businesses and citizens in order to mitigate the effects of the coronary pandemic. As of November 15th, an additional 20 euros in aid application for those citizens who have not applied for the 30 plus 30-euro package, meeting the necessary conditions, means adulthood, those who have in the meantime become full-time citizens. Pensioners and all who have already applied for 30 plus 30 euros in additional aid should not apply for 20 euros, as they will receive it automatically and will be paid in December. So far, as the minister said, Mr. Minister, about six million of our fellow citizens have applied for financial assistance. Total expenditures and expenditures amounted to 1,793 billion dinars increased by 24.5 billion dinars. The total expenditure and expenditure structure accounts for 1,378 billion dinars, expenditure on non-financial assets amounts to 388 billion dinars of total expenditure and expenditure. The rest consists of expenditure on paying off the principal to implement public policies of 8.32 billion dinars, and expenditure on the purchase of financial assets of 18.7 billion dinars of total expenditure. The rebalancing created conditions to continue financing the fight to preserve human health and life and to reduce the negative consequences of the economy and citizens caused by the Kovid 19 virus pandemic. The state, as I said, carries the burden of this crisis because it gives a lot of help to the economy and the population, but this is how we expect the growth of the economy of 7% of GDP. We positively estimate that investments in capital investments continue. The travel infrastructures that have been started and planned since the first rebalancing continue the same. Every investment in infrastructure promotes economic growth, employs economy, maintains and creates new jobs. That is why the parliamentary group of the Duke of Hungarian Union will support this rebalancing and, of course, vote in favour of budget rebalancing. Investment in capital investment at state level is 7.8% of GDP, which is a very high percentage if we look at and advance with countries in the environment or we can do with countries in Europe. Four highways are currently being built in Serbia and works on the Moravia Corridor and on the Danube Master's Office have started. We positively estimate that the remaining capital investments in road infrastructures, such as the highway on the Belgrade-Zrenjanin shares, are highways on the Surcin-Belgrade section, will be built the Fruskogorski Corridor and bypasses around Novi Sad and Gornji Milanovac. For the parliamentary group, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians is very important that capital investment in railway infrastructure has been started, as we single out the Serbian-Hungarian Railways projects on the Belgrade-Budapest route. The works have also started to realise the project of modernization and reconstruction of the railway line Subotica – Segedin. Soon we'll be able to get from Saturday to Segedin in 40 minutes by train. We positively estimate that other projects that are very important for the northern Vojvodina continue. This is about the following projects: a project to build overpasses on the E75 highway on a section of the Kelebija loop border crossing – Subotica South, then build a fast first-row trafficway between Novi Sad and Ruma, such as the project and the construction of the Horgoša border crossing, the project continues on the Tis River near Novi Vienna to improve the conditions for the ship's translation at the dam, the construction of the Scientific and Technical Park in Novi Sad, the construction and equipment of Kovid Hospital in Novi Sad, are going on and further reconstructions of the clinical centres Kragujevac, Niš, Novi Sad, are being built, as we saw in this rebaland, water purifier in Kikinda. Due to these investments, as I said, to continue investment in road infrastructure or normally in infrastructure, whether it is a road or a health infrastructure, a parliamentary group of the Dukea Hungarian Council will vote for this budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9980	I thank Mr. Peck. Next is counterpart Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9981	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, we have heard a lot about macro-economic indicators that are actually saying how far Serbia has progressed. Given the fact that for the second time in this year, we are considering budget rebalancing, it is saying that Serbia is really taking big steps forward, but it is very important to look at all aspects of this progress because the challenges and ambience in which our economy is, of course, with a high degree of caution. I think there is, in fact, the essence of this rebalancing, that we have here today the opportunity to say what these are all the challenges both the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state are facing. Because what's a picture and an opportunity of these results shows that we're making progress with high growth rates. It shows that the planned deficit of 304.5 billion dinars, which is 4.9% of GDP, shows that this rebalancing simply lowers from 6.9 to 4.5, shows that incomes rise by 1.1 billion dinars, but also costs, total expenditures are just giving us the opportunity to invest in many sectors in Serbia and shows that we simply give citizens confidence that they have the security of one behind which the state stands in support of citizens, but also the opening of a good environment when it comes to investing foreign and domestic investments. The public debt you can see is 58.2% in the work under this Mastricht, which shows in fact that we are running one responsible policy, that the borrowing Serbia is doing is in the best interest of the most infrastructure projects, investment for the future and shows that in fact that this inflow of foreign direct investment, which is 2.6 billion euros, is now still three months practical to see how much investment in Serbia is, in fact, showing that we will clearly again be the best country in the region when it comes to foreign direct investment. We said by rebalancing that in addition to these brand-economic indicators that all grow and sustainability of public debt, but also investment in borrowing, we can ultimately conclude that public investment in all sectors is now getting additional funding that many of the strategic projects that we have outlined at the beginning of this year are being implemented. I'll remind you when we adopted the budget at the beginning of December last year, everyone was skeptical when it came to 6% growth. We said then that exactly the fact where we draw our optimism, many journalists then asked because then the Fiscal Council said that between three and four percent is real growth this year, we were just saying that it's the fact that capital investments are at a record level and now we say that capital investments, when we talk about public investments, to 7.8% of GDP at the top of their percentage, that when we see who all infrastructure projects are when it comes to traffic infrastructure, the minister said here, they were never bigger. That even during Tito, it wasn't as much built as it is now. I think it should be repeated to the citizens because until they know it, they simply don't have a picture to see how far Serbia has progressed. What is important is to say that it did not stop the government of Serbia, the ministry, and the president of Serbia from opening new factories when it comes to new investors. I'll only remind you, in the last month, that Mr. Vukic was also in Svilinc when the new factory opened in both Alexinac and Novi Sad when the chocolate factory opened, but we had a chance four days ago to see that the state top was when a practically new copper mine opened, a mine in Bora. In fact, we show that we treat all sectors equally. When we talk about the "Green Agenda" and about protecting the environment, which everyone is talking about, and believe me, I think many European countries wanted to replace the topic, which in fact see their economic problems through solving and investing in the green economy, I think Serbia has gone ahead again. First, because last year and Plan 2025 simply united all projects related to investment in municipal infrastructure, waste water management, waste management and the part relating to collector construction. It has already prepared these projects, and before the crown itself, for the development of this sector, which includes, of course, the income of all local self-government and expenditures, i.e. investments. So we were actually one step ahead of the crown when it came to these projects. It has only stopped the time implementation of these projects, but, as you can see, since it came years after the crown, in which Serbia showed that it quickly recovered from it and managed to make the high growth rates truly recognised by all international institutions, and above all by the IMF, because you managed to defend as the Ministry of Finance, the government and as the NBS to recognise real growth to 6.5%, which does not mean that this year we will end up with that percentage, but certainly higher, but simply proved that these projects are in progress. So they've already started, because the investment process itself begins the moment you start with the technical documentation. The construction and realization itself, of course, will go over the next few years, but it's very important that we were ahead in fact of the economic downturn with these projects, and we didn't allow it to wait for another time, but we started it in time. When we talk about capital investment in traffic infrastructure, the metro project is obviously one of the most important projects for Serbia. We've been talking about it for 70 years. When we listen here that it's some pre-election projects, believe me, in both the past and the pre-election assembly, when there are some who are now running their campaigns on Twitter, we've heard the same thing, that we're doing the pre-election campaign, that we're not doing anything. But now in 2021, you see that Serbia looks completely different, and it will only look with the construction of infrastructure projects on the first line of the subways, and in 2023, the second line of the subways. I think all those who disagree with both SNS and Aleksandr Vukic must recognise Serbia's development. They must recognise both economic development and infrastructure development, however you wish, and the social development of Serbia itself. This is what is not actually in the reports of both the European Commission and other international institutions, and we see that they are still acknowledging that the state has managed to preserve its economic stability and has managed simply to develop in this part, regardless of all the challenges we have faced in the matter, and today we have in the case of the Kovid-19 pandemic. What's most important to us is that incomes are growing, that participation when we talk about capital investments is never greater, that market development when we talk about green economy, through the broadcasting of green bonds, is of great importance. No country in the region has ever done that. It was only done by the most developed countries that had long begun this area to develop. When we talk about travel, digital and energy transition, I must say that the EU has raised these issues. I think that Serbia with its projects mates side by side with developed countries in this sector. Simply, Serbia did not sit with its hands cut, but did a lot of work in each of these segments. What we think is as one of the possible challenges and problems that already arise in developed countries is the issue of inflation itself, food-gathering, because we are all aware of that as MPs in the conversation with citizens, which they are afraid of. So, raising the price of food, fuel, oil, even energy, then, the part relating to construction material. That's what I think the state has done a lot of things, except that citizens simply don't have as much information and a picture as the NBS in the capital market tried and kept from hitting the capital market in Serbia. That's why today we have a projected inflation that rebalanced 2.6% in April, raised by 1%. She's currently at 5.7%, but she's still moving within the limits of reality. On the other hand, when we talk about the exchange rate and the capital market in general when it comes to Serbia, we talk about the fact that the National Bank is actually maintaining a foreign exchange rate. Why? He does not want to devalue the simple money that both Serbian citizens and through their salaries and investors through a certain kind of investment here to devalue, but simply wants to keep at that level that can combat all these problems that affect life today. What you had the opportunity to hear from the finance minister is that inflations in developed countries and the EU and the world are almost twice as big, somewhere and triple as in Serbia. It means that the state is simply struggling with all these blows, with all the problems it faces. That is why the results, which the National Bank said yesterday at the end of September currently amounted to 16.8 billion euros and 30.3 tonnes of gold, show in fact almost twice as many reserves as Serbia had in 2012. This shows that Serbia is leading one credible, responsible policy and all the elements that we have talked about so far in particular in numbers, so that I would not now repeat myself as the last-authorised legislator from parliamentary groups, in fact, that the rebalancing is a quality of good results, i.e. good business, household business when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all institutions. Why? Because sometimes we forget what good results are. Serbia is simply not used to having good results. Somehow we're always self-critical of ourselves, much more than we should be. But don't forget that before this crisis, Serbia had a four-year surplus, followed by a controlled deficit. The only deficit was something bigger last year when it was a pandemic. Now it is simply shrinking, so that next year it will be reduced to 3%, even a reduction in public debt to 55.5%, and that is what it shows in fact that you are leading one responsible and domestic policy. When we talk about the basic characteristics of the economic movement, it is, for example, interesting for our businessmen and citizens who listen to this debate, the real GDP growth in the third quarter, after the end of August of the month, was 13.7%, which is more than an estimate when it comes to this annual growth. What actually kept very good results? First of all, industrial production, in August when you look at growth, is driven into three sectors of industry, which is the processing industry that watched it grow, then pharmaceuticals and traffic. What is very important is that for the January-August period this year industrial production, for example, recorded an annual growth of 6.9%, when it comes to processing 7.8%, energy 5.8% and mining 0.9%. Of course, in this third quarter, since summer, there has been a huge growth of services, when it comes to trade, tourism and traffic. Then the industry went up to some of the 2.6%, and the building, normally, went to 17.7%, had growth, just as consumption increased by 11.9%. Foreign direct investment, of course, increased by 22.5% in that third quarter. What does that tell you? If it wasn't for this big growth in these sectors at all, we couldn't even talk today about budget rebalancing, we wouldn't be able to say that income has increased. When we talk, say, about employment, the most interesting thing is that the number of employees has increased by 3%, and when we talk about unemployment by 2.2%. So, for the January-July 2021 period, there was a growth in gross earnings of 5.8%, i.e. at a net of 6%, and in May the average gross earnings were to 4.2% and net to 4.4%. What does that show? This shows, in fact, that we're one step at a time, on every quarter we're actually growing with both our consumption and our incomes. This is what actually created conditions for us that today, when we have some pressure, when it comes to inflation itself, and when it comes to investment itself, we can simply bear it much easier, because always the problem when that September comes, there are always much higher costs and always then residents, or Serbian citizens worry that they will welcome winter. Now, with these results, I don't think we need to have any mistrust, because the state went out with just having and standing behind every man who lives here. What's most important to us is that when we talk about Serbia's liquidity in general, what's most important, and that's that at some point you always have, as a state, at the expense of the budget, a certain amount of funds, so that if you need to react, you have current budget reserves, which also shows a kind of stability. So 372 billion dinars are liquidity defined exactly in the account to date, and that's what shows, in fact, that we shouldn't worry about and when we talk about minimum personal income, which happens to be 35,000 dinars, and when we talk about average personal income, which will cross 619 euros next January 1st. So that also shows that all parameters are in the upward line. Our economic policy is directed towards every man and every citizen, but it is also aimed at developing a country for the future, that we have to think about young people, that we have to think about education and education, at a time when all countries are in crisis, when it comes to the health crisis, which is thought to stop this year and that somehow all countries will get out of this problem. However, it has been shown that some things cannot be controlled, or that you can predict with 100% certainty. We already have an announcement of the so-called energy crisis, so the crisis is talking about the price of electricity and the price of gas at the world level, and especially when we talk about the European Union, achieve certain maximums, create a complete disturbance in the capital market, because this price directly affects both the price of food and the price of all goods and services. But what creates great security for us, is that Serbia has managed to build part of the pipeline, the so-called "Turkish Stream", or "Balkan Stream", with the possibility of diversification, means connections and all other flows, which will be precisely the construction of this interconnector, which we are now financing from this budget rebalance. Why does it matter now? It is important because you have had the opportunity to hear Mr. Vukic, who has just tried to explain what is happening on the world capital market when it comes to the price of electricity and the price of gas. The economy cannot operate without gas, not only our own, but the economy of the European Union. The European Union has been solving its problems for years, but how it will solve it is of less importance than how we will solve the problem. And on November 25th, I think it's a very important date, when Mr. Vukic will meet with Mr. Putin, because all the world's economists today say that he is the main figure in the world of Mr. Putin, who is the political figure at the head of a country that owns all the natural gas reserves and which basically determines how he will negotiate with both the state and at what cost negotiate gas. What is our obvious goal, and what Mr. Vukic said, is that we try to fight for so-called. An oil formula that would allow us to have the most favourable gas prices compared to everyone else. But that most favourable price will also be higher than we are now paying - 270 euros per thousand cubic metres of gas. This is actually what shows why Serbia led one of the far-responsible foreign and internal policies. We have defined ourselves as European integration, but we never wanted to have bad relations with any country. We built and continued to have historical good relations with the Russian Federation, but we built new relationships when it comes to the People's Republic of China. That is why we have really good relations when it comes to building infrastructure and we have had opportunities here and to ratify agreements that will really enable the development of high-speed railways when it comes to the Belgrade-Budapest track. What is very important to us, when you look at Serbia's exchange with the world, when it comes to the total trade swap for eight months, you will see that it was almost 31.6 billion euros, which is 25.8% more than in the same period last year. Serbia's exports and imports have increased as much as 28.5% in this period, and growth is high due to the fact that during the basic period of time, when we talk about trade, continued and biggest were in the Republic of China – 36.2%, when we talk about the ratio of eight months last year and this year, as well as Turkey's 30.5%, with the European Union 27.2%, and with CEFTA countries 28.4%. The trade exchange with Russia continues to record a decline, and that is minus 3.8% when it comes to imports from Russia. But because of that, when we have a new agreement regarding the gas deal next year, I believe that these percentages will grow. Why are we now talking about how complex it is, when we're talking about creating a budget and even leading and economic policy of Serbia at all? You see that bilateral and multilateral relations with countries and the European Union, after all, and the worlds are very important, that you have responsible politicians who will lead this country. Imagine, for example, that Mr. Vukic is now leading Serbia, but rather leading, for example, as he led, Boris Tadic. We would be in big trouble today, when it comes to the work of the economy, when it comes to heating in our homes, when it comes to the price of electricity, it means supply. That's what I think everyone should imagine a little when they make decisions next year that will be defined as Serbian citizens to lead them to the future. I think today's budget rebalancing debate is just one step in which we need to decide how we want to live in the future. That is why in the voting day, I propose to all MPs, no matter what parliamentary group they belong to, to accept this budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9982	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Since we're running out of time for the first part of the session, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9983	We continue with today's work. The first person registered for the word is Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9984	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, of course, that we have heard a lot of positive things today that contribute to the adoption of budget rebalancing and that also, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support this proposal for the reasons that Academyman Zukorlic cited, as regards capital projects, investment in infrastructure, investment in the construction of new institutions, especially educational ones, but in the health sector and all other sectors, and only in the area of Sjenica. Of course, that all other places also have certain investments, but the example of Sjenica is because we have a domestic relationship and a good correlation between the local community and the initiative and that they themselves are using everything that allows them to reach the funds, while in other places unfortunately, we still do not have the right hosts to take advantage of all these opportunities and potentials and capacities that the Republic of Serbia allows and therefore we do not have such a significant number of investments as we should have. On the other hand, what is not good and every time we push again, which is still in our rural areas, especially the territory of Sandzak from which we do not have large investments in terms of employment, in terms of bringing foreign investors. It is unimaginable that in Novi Pazar as the centre of the entire region we still have no direct foreign investment that will build a factory or something that will employ a large number of people. For this reason, we find that this once youngest city in Europe is an ever-increasing number of young people, educated people looking for ways to leave this country. There is also a significant outflow of workable, competent staff that should and could and would simply be available to that end, but also the country in general fully recovers from all of those devastated things that have been happening three decades ago. I would therefore urge that the idea of building a Technological Park project in Novi Pazar, which has been mentioned here many times, but also bringing in a number of foreign investors who would open up a lot of new jobs and give opportunities to young people, educated, able, talented to see their future in their own region and to plan their future in that area, and their family's future and to simply, as it happens in other parts of the Republic of Serbia, wake up a new, positive environment of survival and development. Otherwise, our generations will be poured out, as they have so far spread out to us. I'm saying this because I know that in the next period, and given that the preparation and the new budget are under way, there will be opportunities for these things to be corrected and filled and that, as we had in the situation of Sjenica, we have some new indications, shifts when it comes to other Sanjay cities, but also all the cities that are in the edges of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9985	Thank you. The word is Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9986	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Mali, colleagues and fellow MPs, today there is a second-in-a-office budget rebalancing for this year, after the one in April that covered a package of assistance for citizens and businesses due to the crisis caused by the Kovid-19 pandemic and which gave excellent results and positively influenced that we can still work on the State cashier's supplement today. Analyzing this second draft budget rebalance, it is clear that it is very responsiblely planned and that citizens, businesses and investments are a priority. Much more investment funds are foreseen, which is a good move, because investment contributes to GDP growth not only at present but also in the future by encouraging both employment of a larger number of people and spending, all of which has a positive impact on GDP growth. In addition to this, reports from a meeting with the IMF mission a few days ago in Belgrade estimated that the first half of this year recorded GDP growth of 7.6%, which is a record high level, thanks to results in all sectors, especially industrial production, construction and service sectors. It has also been estimated that favourable labour market conditions and real profit growth of 6.2% have affected an increase in private consumption, reflecting our country's growth. Today, it is clear that the initial budget for 2021 is well and carefully planned and that this year, in which there has been a health crisis, the budget has been planned to account for the unforeseeable circumstances which unfortunately have occurred and that there has been plenty of room left for the addition of the budget to meet citizens and businesses in April, and now before the end of this financial year, the rebalance is the result of higher economic growth than expected, but also better tax collection and most of the funds will be allocated to investment. When we talk about charging the state register, we need to know that in the overall income structure, the most tax revenues are about 86%, that a little less than 13% of those revenues are non-taxable, and the rest is about 1% about donations. Analyzing revenues in the budget, it can be clearly concluded that VAT was the most contributed to their increase, but also the good situation in the labour market, which has led to increased payments of contributions to the republican insurance funds, and thus reduced budget payments. What is important to respected colleagues, six months from the previous budget deficit in April, is down from 6.9% of GDP as expected then to 4.9% of GDP with public debt participation, from 58.2% to GDP, which is excellent results. This is the result of an unexpected growth in budget revenues that will be 132.2 billion dinars higher than planned in April, and compared to the original budget for this year, as much as 152 billion dinars. If we look at the economic developments in the Republic of Serbia and during the biggest crisis, when not many companies turned out to have actually not reduced the amount of profits achieved at the level of the entire economy, so not only the higher profit tax was charged, but also the dividend tax. The estimate is that VAT will bring about 55 billion dinars into the budget more than planned in April, as I have already said, the result of higher economic growth than expected, but also better tax collection. More VAT-based funds, thanks to the rise in personal consumption and better results achieved in tourism than last year. When we talk about better results in tourism, I say that in 2019, which was a record for Serbian tourism, 10 million overnight stays were achieved, while in late September of this year, according to official data, 8.3 million overnight stays were recorded, which exceeded all expectations, and what you will agree is a great success. The foreign exchange inflow for the first six months of this year increased by 33%. These data point to a significant recovery and gradual growth of tourist visits, and to continue this trend during the autumn and winter season, we need a stable epidemiological situation, which is only possible at the moment with a high percentage of the vaccination rate of our citizens and this is the only way that we all contribute together to a better health situation. Vaccination is the only way to show humanity and solidarity to health workers and it's the only way we can disburse them, because they're on the verge of strength and investing in the last atoms of energy saving our lives. We also contribute to a stable epidemiological situation by increasing the number of vaccines, which is the condition of all conditions for normal life and for attracting better investment. When it comes to investment, this rebalance provides for an additional 27 billion dinars, and a total of 389 billion dinars for investments will be allocated from the budget this year. With this rebalancing, a significant increase in funds is planned for the construction of the Pojate section – Preljina or Moravski Corridor, shares of Novi Belgrade – Surcin, "Gasvoda" Serbia – Bulgaria, the construction of the first and only factory vaccines in the region, the construction and equipment of the hospital in Novi Sad, the acquisition of equipment for the University Clinical Centre, for ecology, for the release of historical waste, more resources for sport, for agriculture, tourism. What makes me particularly happy is that the works on the construction of the Preljin – Požega highway will be completed by the end of the year from Preljina to Pakovra, which will significantly relieve traffic in Čačak, because all those heading towards Montenegro and Bosnia will no longer have to pass through Cačak. Also, there are a number of regional and local rural roads, which in many ways facilitates the lives of people in the country, but also allows more tourist visits to villages, which have been forgotten. I will give only one positive example, and this is building a road towards one of the most beautiful sights in Serbia at the top of the Cablar, whose photos flooded the Internet and which was simply discovered only a year ago, two days ago and became a tourist boom during the pandemic when people were running into nature. There are also investments in Ovcar Banja, a small Serb Council, which will circle the tourist offer of this region. So these are all investments that improve the quality of life and contribute to a better standard, because more investment and infrastructure funding is the best economic measure to stimulate economic growth. Finally, as all global financial institutions, such as the IMF and the World Bank, have positively assessed GDP growth and Serbia's economic recovery, as one of the best in Europe, and are raising forecasts for Serbia, i.e. GDP growth projections to 6.5% and the Serbian government believes this year that real growth will be as much as 7%. I expect that these are not only figures that citizens listen to, but that they will allow for the raise of salaries and pensions, of course within the given frameworks, that the state will take measures to improve standards and raise the quality of life in Serbia. Looking at the budget from all angles, from all aspects, we can say that in the given conditions it is well planned, that it is real and that it is developmental. That is why the SDPS parliamentary group will support this proposal and we call on other colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9987	Thank you. The word is Nenad Filipović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9988	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the honourable ministers, since 2020 and 2021 were the years of the pandemic, as well as the years of uncertainty, in many areas of our society, and particularly in the financial sense, we could not even know how epidemiological measures would be and what the strength of these epidemic measures would be adopted and what consequences it would have for society as a whole, and it is normal for us to have in such an atmosphere in front of the National Assembly, one such document, which we will adopt, which is the rebalancing of the budget. So here we had the first budget rebalancing in April of the month, which the National Assembly adopted, had confidence in the government, in the ministry and the minister himself, that the measures that bring good results, which is now much clearer from this perspective. Hopefully, by the end of the year, public debt will be about 58.2%. Maintaining public debt below 60% of GDP, i.e. below the level of mastery, is what we can say is that the important result in this year, in which the government gave huge money to combat this health crisis, if we only remember that last year, and this year, it was about 8 billion euros, then we see that it is indeed an extraordinary result and that the parliamentary group will therefore and what I will say in the next period and vote for this budget rebalance. These positive results are not due to current work, but to one systematic continuous work, and to the government and the Ministry of Finance, if we see that in the last 4 years, we have surplus in the budget, then we can safely say that the well-balanced budgets that were before the health crisis have also contributed to these positive results today. This budget rebalance was projected with a fiscal deficit of 4.9% of GDP, i.e. Some 304.5 billion dinars, compared to the April deficit, we have a decline here, a reduction in deficits from 6.7% to 4.9% of GDP. If we take a closer look at this report then we'll see that some 3.5% of GDP deficits, in fact, represent some extraordinary measures, which are aimed at curbing this health crisis, so the real deficit is about 1.4% of GDP, and that's why I can say that this is one good basis for the 2022 budget, and I can agree that the public debt in 2022 will be below 60% of GDP. Every time we talk about rebalancing, no matter how long before you look at what's going to be suggested, we always have a lot of criticism, critics, I'd say the critics of those who are looking for hair in the egg and who will always say how much income these rebalancings are, because the aprior expenditures are either so big or increased and how much money the government is now asking for to be in debt to survive under quotes at the end of this year. However, if we look at the revenues we can see that the revenues are extremely high, these are revenues increased by 132 billion dinars. Of course, due to the great uncertainty about the development of the epidemiological situation and the risk that it could be overrun to slow down economic activity, the government was very careful in this case. In addition, many of the data used for the first budget rebalancing were either invisible or not reliable, so there were these differences. Of course those who are looking for hair in the egg will always say that these are huge mistakes, but I'm asking what if today on the agenda there was a rebalance with incomes that were negative, only then would we have one big critical review of all of them. However, I think that in this time and now and before us the government should be very careful, very brave and I think that thanks to the courage shown in the previous years, we have come to such extraordinary results. The most important factors that led to this change first is the rate of real GDP growth, from 6% to 7%. If you remember, many did not believe at the time when it was said of 6% that it would now be no one is asking whether it would be 7%, perhaps more than 7% of GDP. More favourable labour market movements, therefore higher wages and more employees I would remind you that at that time many thought that this year there would be great layoffs it did not happen and of course a positive impact of the economic measures programme on personal consumption which has indeed been increased. As for the expenditure itself, the proposed budget rebalance, when we look at the figures themselves, we see that the expenditure has been increased to 25 billion dinars, but if we look at the situation a little bit better, we see that it's not quite so. Since we have an increase in capital investment or capital expenditure of 27 billion dinars, it means 362 to 389 billion, which is 7.4% of the increase that is invested in road infrastructure in health, then all we see is that this base simply reduces the cost so that the expenditure is not exactly what the figures say. If we look at the increase in expenditures of 25 billion dinars, and these are various interventions related to the health crisis, prevention of mitigation resulting from this pandemic. So from 76 to 100%, or 100 billion dinars, that's 32% increase, then we're completely clear on what expenditure this budget is and we're talking about. As for the subsidies themselves, they remained at the same level as 212 billion dinars, but there were some changes in the structure itself, and I'd like to say a few sentences about it. First of all, it is good that agricultural subsidies are increased by 1.9 billion dinars. We in the JS believe that agriculture is also the branch that gives us great stability, and it could be seen at this very age, in this and previous year when it was a pandemic, when everyone suddenly remembered both villages and agriculture. We believe that much larger subsidies should go to agriculture, and investment in agriculture is not a waste of money, but they do not return directly and indirectly. It is already known that they are coming back, and indirect return can only be suggested, only through the migration of the population, which will certainly be reduced through an increase in the birth rate that is secure, a reduction in unemployment, etc. That's why we expect the budget to be about 5% in the next year's budget, so for 2021, the agricultural budget will be about 5%, and maybe even bigger, because we now have great turbulence on the world market and around oil, and about gas, and also the fertilizer that has added 100%, even more. This means that the government needs a lot more to devote itself to the agricultural producer so that we don't have some. As for the grief that the ministry has towards agricultural producers in terms of the measure of direct incentives from previous years, we expect it to also enter the budget for 2022, that we will deal with it this year. It is good that road traffic subsidies are increased and 36% worth 11.1 billion dinars and so on. productive investment. The government continued to invest in road infrastructure, in railway infrastructure, and we think it is good to invest in highways, corridors, etc. With a view to coming from southern Serbia, I would suggest a little more investment in southern Serbia in road infrastructure. I have spoken here several times about certain roads, regional roads, and this time I will mention the regional road Leskovac – Vučje, which has been declared one of the three most damaged roads, and we hope that in the following year it will be completed, especially if we know that around that time it is gravitating about 30,000 or more people, and their decades-old problem would be solved. As for the health sector, the increase in budget rebalancing in April is evident in the light of the reconstruction of the equipment of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, as well as the construction of the hospital Kovid equipment and reconstruction of health centres, as well as the vaccine factory, which is expected to end next year. We must all agree that these are justifiable capital expenditures. Also, everything the government has done in this quantity of time and for the healthcare workers themselves, since the increase in wages and slight increase in employment has been timely and adequate, because health workers have essentially borne the most burden in this pandemic. On this occasion, I have to mention the education system, i.e. Schools, which also bear a great burden in this pandemic. He may not have been directly seen, but he certainly does exist. We in the Unique Serbia think investment in education is an investment in our own future. On this occasion, I would urge government representatives to consider investing as much in education as possible. I'd like to remind you of only one thing, which is that educators have a salary that's below the republican average. I'd say again, investing in education is investing in my own future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9989	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Amos Ujhelji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9990	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, the presidency, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as fellow MP Zoltan Peck, in front of the parliamentary group, the Alliance of Vojvodjan Hungarians in his presentation, as the authorised representative has already stressed, MPs and SVM parliamentary groups will support the second rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget for 2021, for more reasons. Its adoption will ensure further acceleration of economic activity, job protection and maintenance of overall macroeconomic stability. Indicators of economic activity have been above expectations since the second half of 2020, thanks to which Serbia has achieved a pre-crisis level of economic activity already in the first quarter of this year, before most European countries and one quarter earlier than our expectations. In the second quarter of this year, the level of GDP was about 3% above the pre-crisis level. GDP growth was 7.6% in the first half of the year, according to the estimates of the Republic Statistics Institute. Strong... led by recovery in service sectors most affected by the crisis last year, as well as the growth of industry and construction. On the spending side, the growth was driven by domestic demand, i.e. investments and consumption. The second budget rebalance of the Republic of Serbia for 2021 envisions total budget revenues of 1,488 billion dinars, which is more than 150 billion dinars compared to the budget amounts, and total budget expenditures are estimated at 1,765 billion dinars. What we need to underline is that the total fiscal deficit has been reduced from 381,000 to 304,000,000,000 dinars. When we talk about the deficit, we have to say that despite the implementation of the third package, around 4.5% of GDP, fiscal developments in six months this year are more favourable than expected due to better revenue realisation thanks to faster recovery of economic activity. The participation of the general government deficit in GDP is about 4.9%, which is 2% less than anticipated by the previous rebalance, and the public debt of the state at the end of June was 55% of GDP, which means that the government of the Republic of Serbia meets the criteria of the Mastrict. At the level of the year, GDP growth of 7% is expected, which will be led to the highest level by domestic demand. Such a movement should contribute to the continuation of the implementation of infrastructure projects and a timely and adequate response by economic policymakers in Serbia, and thus secure favourable financing conditions and preserved production capacities and jobs. In addition, the growth of the export supply, along with the normalisation of global economic flows, due to continued vaccination and expected recovery of external demand, will contribute to double-digit export growth and repair of the external trade deficit. The same factors, as well as the expected further acceleration of the implementation of infrastructure projects based on new planned projects, such as subways, construction and modernisation of railways, highways and fast traffic, municipal infrastructure, etc. The economic package was implemented in 2021 directly affecting the liquidity of operators and facilitating business especially those sectors that remain under a somewhat stronger influence of the pandemic, such as tourism, passenger traffic, while through giving to the population foster domestic demand and thus indirectly affect economic activity. In parallel with economic measures, the mitigation of restrictive health measures has also resulted in a dynamic recovery of certain activities of the service sector most affected by the pandemic. Starting from the movement in the international environment, as well as the favourable current trends of domestic economic activity from expected and taking into account the effects of measures taken to support the economy and the population, GDP projections for 2021 were revised to more than 6% to 7%. The capital inflow in Serbia remained relatively high, contributing to the country's foreign reserve growth and strengthening resilience to external risks. This was largely contributed by foreign direct investment inflows of 1.8 billion euros over the first six months and by about 21% was higher than in the same period of the previous year. The inflow based on portfolio investments was close to 800m euros and was, above all, the result of successful Eurobond emissions on the international financial market. The inclusion of dinar state bonds in the renowned GP Morgens index in late June, which is the result of years of dedicated work by the National Bank of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will contribute to the expansion of the base of foreign investors investing in dinar foreign currency bonds. Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, when we talk about the fiscal deficit, I want to repeat what I've already told you several times. Namely, in Article 2. You have stated that you plan to provide the necessary funds to finance the budget deficit from loans to domestic and international commercial and multilateral financial institutions and foreign governments through the broadcasting of state charters. We all know that citizens of our country are currently able to buy state papers in a very complicated and expensive way. Our proposal is to simplify the purchase of government bonds through the Treasury, with minimum costs and without compensation for keeping dedicated current accounts and without taxes to our citizens, who are willing to finance the public debt of our country. Namely, if most of the public debt is in the hands of our citizens, then it provides a more stable financial market during extreme events, as is the pandemic, and besides, it minimises the possibility of attacking foreign speculators on the dinar. On the other hand, we believe that it is better to pay interest to our citizens who believe in our politics and buy state papers and who are willing to finance our public debt and who will spend it in the country, rather than foreign speculators. Neighbouring countries are otherwise already practicing such ways of buying state paper. When we talk about the effects of fiscal policy, I think we should also talk about the effects of monetary policy. Unlike individual central banks in the region, the National Bank of Serbia has continued to run an incentive monetary policy and to be an equal partner to the government of the Republic of Serbia in supporting businesses and citizens in conditions of preserved relative foreign exchange-rate stability. During the first half of 2021, the rate of the reference interest rate was kept at an unchanged level of 1%, as of December 2020. This is the lowest level of the reference interest rate in the target inflation regime and by 1.25 percentage points lower than before the pandemic. This contributed that the government of the Republic of Serbia could form loans with a guarantee scheme, where the interest rate was below market rates and thus managed to save the economy of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, we must not forget that without the moratorium on loan payments, we could not keep the financial situation of the economy and the population in this condition that they are currently in. I therefore particularly welcome the NBS' decision on moratorium loans, which has been made to preserve the stability of the financial system. The participation of problematic loans in total loans indicates that, thanks to timely and adequate measures by the NBS and the Government, the quality of the bank's activity is preserved and further strengthened. The rate of dinarisation measured by the participation of dinar placements in the total banks of the economy and the population in the first half of 2021 increased by 1.3 percentage points and was 38.6% at the end of June, which is the highest level so far. The growth in dinarisation is primarily the result of larger dinar lending of the economy. Inflation in Serbia was under control for the eighth year in a row. The National Bank of Serbia has continued, despite numerous earthquakes from the international environment, to meet its basic goal – low security and stable inflation. Inflation expectations of the financial sector and the economy were already low and relatively stable for a year and two years in advance, while at the same time confirming the higher credibility of monetary policy. Making a decision not to change the level of the reference interest rate, the NBS Executive Board stressed that the results of the domestic economy are more favourable than expected and in conditions of globally deteriorated epidemiological situations at the beginning of the year. Our MP group welcomes this attitude by the NBS. Fellow MPs, I would like to stress that we will vote in favour of budget rebalancing, because in addition to providing additional funding for capital projects, a total of 234 million dinars, it also allows for the realisation of capital projects that are of particular importance to us. For farmers, it is also very important to build two subroutines at Ipsilon’s hips, for they would have to drive several miles by tractor to reach their own field. However, the Maccut has been completed, and works have begun on the overpass of Pachir over the Ipislon Legs. By building the above mentioned obituary, traffic safety increases. The reconstruction and modernisation of the railway line between Subotica and Segedin will take place. It is an important project, as its realisation reduces the retention at border crossings and develops cross-border co-operation. Finally, once again, we will vote in favour of rebalancing, because the government of the Republic of Serbia is making efforts to preserve public health and security, helping businesses to preserve liquidity and reduce employment, i.e. preserving living standards and the liquidity of the population, continue to pay particular attention to capital investments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9991	Thank you. The word is Jelena Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9992	Thank you. Dear Ministers Mali, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as in our presentation when we discussed budget rebalancing for 2021 months ago, and today, in my participation in the discussion, I will put a greater emphasis on budget payments for culture, because as an artist, I do not want to, nor can I talk about the details that financial experts have already spoken of, they have given their opinion on this rebalancing, which is positive. In his opening statement, the minister himself very comprehensively presented amendments to the Budget Law, but fellow MPs had also presented important items of amendment to this law before me. In times when an epidemic besides health leaves economic consequences at global level, the proposed new rebalancing is a predominantly developmental character, as compared to the previous rebalancing in this defined 388.9 billion dinars for capital investments, whose realisation should consequently contribute to GDP growth. The rebalance envisions an increase in revenues of around a billion and 100m euros and a relatively small increase in expenditures of around 200m euros, which is also the reason for a 900m-euro deficit reduction, all of which is a good basis for the needed further stabilisation in the coming period. I would like to point out that I have noticed that the budget appropriations from the Republic Fund for pension-involvement insurance have been reduced and thus budgeted by around 33 billion dinars. So, from 141 billion to 108 billion dinars for the pension fund, thanks to a better collection of contributions. With this in mind, it is not burning to repeat the proposal that I once cited in my presentation on the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance several months ago, which directly concerns pension stability and their potential growth in the future. If the state manages to realise the idea and project Gerdap 3, which has existed for several decades and a certain percentage of the ownership structure, allocates to the Republic pension fund, along with the current crisis concerning energy and demand for them, which in the future will certainly be replicated, electricity and, in particular, green kilowatts will be treated as dry gold, with an annual turnover of 1.8 billion euros that Đerdap 3 could achieve, it would significantly reduce expenditure from the budget to the pension fund, pensions would be stable and their continued growth would be ensured, and at the same time a kind of privatisation of the energy sector expected from international organisations would be realised. In line with the said, the budget of the state could be significantly disbursed and budget resources could be directed towards other sectors that would require such funds, which would not be necessary, both to culture, art and education. As a socialist in my belief, I believe that the privatisation of a single society's veins such as energy, health care, education, defence should not be privatised, and I saw in that proposal a particular compromise that could potentially be a good move for our country, as well as for our pensioners, because it would thus avoid activities in financial markets with pension funds, which has already proved to be extremely risky in times of crisis. When we talk about the proposed rebalancing, it is extremely important to define the givings for health care, the construction of coves of hospitals, vaccine factories, aid to economic operators and increase the number of new jobs, investment in infrastructure, roads, which will at some point connect all corners of our country and enable fast transport of goods and services. Of course, when it's cold in the house, everyone in the family drags the yorgan to their side, so the ones who are stronger and the ones who take the first place in the middle are the best. As an artist and a member of the cultural scene, you will allow me to, in a vivid way, draw at least in this discussion a corner of the yhorgan on my side and on the side of culture, because I have to use my place and voice in the National Assembly to reiterate the importance of culture, its survival, the recovery of the pandemic era, and the development and progress in the future. The fact that the payments for the culture for which the decimal of this rebalancing has been increased encourages me and it is a real moment that I want to take advantage of and appeal to the Minister of Finance and Government representatives to build in the upcoming budget a space in which culture would receive an increase in funds, which would lead to our giving in a culture per capita at the level of giving countries in the region, such as Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, why not, Croatia, Hungary and Slovenia, all of which are more per capita for culture than we at this specific moment. We all know how many books we've read during quarantine days, movies we've watched, listened to the record and watched concerts, how many virtual exhibitions we've followed, and in this way painted the uncertain days waiting for vaccines and a return to the previous state, a normal life. During that time, artists created, although they did not receive fees and profits, and cultural institutions designed creative approaches, using all available technological resources to keep the consumption of cultural and artistic content until they returned to normal. That is why every aid package that the state defines is important both towards the recovery of culture and for every other sector. And this rebalancing forecasts funds to prevent and mitigate the consequences of the resulting Kovid -- 19 in the culture sector of 305 million 994 000 dinars, amounting to about 2.6m euros. It is unfair to compare this amount to the amounts defined by the United Kingdom through a culture recovery fund of £1.57 billion or €2.5 billion defined by one rich German, which believes such a package was necessary and is the largest since World War II. What we need to do through the analysis is notice that the German GDP per capita is seven times larger than ours, and the German aid defined by culture at the time of the covids per capita's head is even 80 times larger. The German GDP is 63 times bigger than ours, and aiding the culture sector is as much as 960 times greater. All of this can be used as a good guideline in terms of the definition that we will have when it comes to relation to culture. This difference in the calculation is kind of the difference between our relationship to culture. The personal concern I have is that at one key point in the future when a decision on our status is broken within international organisations and eventual admission into the EU, the Kosovo issue will be important, but perhaps more important will be the screening of the cultural and spiritual level of us as people and society as a whole, not just intellectual elites. We, the descendants of Nemnjiæ, Obilić, Petrovic, and we who were born in the space of the first European civilization, must not allow other people's material wealth to determine the course of our cultural development and survival. We must be the ones who will guard every church, monastery, archaeological site, invest in museum buildings, contemporary creation and creative minds, create our own world story and admire the origins we carry. Perhaps the view could help the culture sector in the 2022 budget, and in the recovery phase of the covid crisis, it could also be the creation of two rounds of competition from the Ministry of Culture in the year that is coming, so that as many creators as possible have some resources, while at the same time waking up the scene and animate the creators to return to active creation. Due to the fact that the 2022 budget is almost complete, I believe that the last moment is that the Ministry of Finance and the entire Government is essentially and urgently committed to finding a modus for increasing the budget for culture for 2022 and after a long time making a decisive cut in the treatment of cultural creation and positioning culture in a place that belongs to it in every civilised society, because I have the impression that culture in the distribution of the budget will always come to the last or last in line and rather symbolically get as much left over after the distribution of funds to, by many, more significant sectors in society and almost always with the prefix that even culture will come to larger funds in the budget and that when all crises, whether they are on a political, economic or health plan, they are resolved. Unfortunately, somehow, it seems to me that at least for my life so far almost no period, shorter or longer, has been burdened by various crises and life flows and what is time-losing in cultural development is, unfortunately, irreparable. I hope that the voice of me and my colleagues will be respected and that the timely reaction, both the Ministry of Finance and the Government, will bring about a possible correction for the upcoming budget of 2022, because I am sure that the facts and hopes that I have presented share both with cultural MPs and with the entire people and the Ministry of Culture and Information, headed by more than agile Mrs Maja Gojkovic. Dear Ministers, I hope and believe that the huge and unquestionably economic success that you have absorbed at the beginning of your opening presentation in the upcoming budget will also be felt by the culture sector, and much more significant than this rebalancing has covered, in order for the cultural sector to be re-launched, revived and developed after the paralysis that this crisis has brought him to a large extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9993	Thank you. The word has an Ana Charapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9994	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected Serbian citizens, distinguished fellow MPs, from all we had the opportunity to hear during today's debate it is clear that the theme of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021 is very important for both citizens and the economy, as well as for the whole country. So today we're discussing budget rebalancing for 2021. The evil languages will certainly now say that we did not plan well on fiscal incomes and fiscal expenditures and that in April of this year we had the first budget rebalance, and now in October of the month and the second. That's actually not true. First of all, we are all aware that the previous year was very difficult and unstable, both at global level and at the level of our entire country, and because of the crisis caused by Kovidom-19, a crisis that is still going on and we do not know when it will end. Secondly, budget rebalancing is the result of more favourable movements at all levels, resulting in better results, not more unfavourable movements and worse results, as was the case by 2012 when some irresponsible politicians managed our country. I think we should all be proud of our own choices. We have chosen responsible state leadership, which in the past nine years has been a great guide for both internal and external policy, thanks to which we today not only have better results than expected, but every day we are witnesses as far as our country is changing and developing. Only last week marked a series of events that confirm Serbia is now more successful and advanced than nine, ten or twenty years ago. First, the IMF revised economic growth projections for Serbia from the original 5% to 6.5%. The government of the Republic of Serbia says we will end the year with an economic growth of 7%. It's just one of the initial assumptions for budget rebalancing for 2021. So today, the IMF and the World Bank praise us, praise Serbia's progress. We only remember in 2012 when the IMF mission and the World Bank left Serbia without a job, with several previous programmes failing, due to the, of course, irresponsible policy of the previous government. When it comes to international credit rating agencies in 2012, Serbia has completely lost confidence in international credit rating agencies, and today these same agencies are assessing Serbia with positive ratings. We're one step away from the investment credit rating. Also last week, it marked the beginning of the realisation of a very important infrastructure project and the modernisation and reconstruction of the railway line, so Subotica – Horgos, the border with Hungary. The team met two leaders, i.e. President of the Republic, Mr Alexander Vukic and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban. Also last week, a contract was signed in Valjevo with a German investor to invest significant funds in this part of Serbia, where the job will get more than 1,000 people. Also last week, a new copper and gold mine in Bora began to work to allow an even greater increase in average earnings for employees in this part of Serbia. There is also a positive report by the European Commission that praises Serbia's progress and recommends the opening of two more clusters that will speed up our path to the EU. So here I was only talking about events that marked last week. There is no day for the state leadership not to do something good for the citizens, do something good for the economy, do something good for the whole state despite all the pressures that come from the external environment, despite the attacks by the part of the opposition that are directed to the family of the President of the Republic. When it comes to budget rebalancing for the 2021 year that we are discussing today, what I can say is that thanks to the economic package of over eight billion euros, we managed to preserve all jobs, we were able to speed up economic activity, while maintaining, or preserving, macro-economic stability. Thanks to measures, i.e. responsible government policy, we will end the year with the largest economic growth in Europe, but also with a budget deficit that will be less than expected. For this year, the budget deficit of 6.9% was originally planned. Because of the good results, we're going to end up with a 4.9% deficit a year, and that's because of the better billing of all tax revenues for as many as 183 billion dinars. First of all, we have a better charge of value added tax, we have a better payment of income tax on citizens due to higher employment, we have better tax on the profit of legal persons because of the more successful business of our businesses, we have higher incomes based on customs, higher revenues based on excise duties than expected. For these reasons, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted last week a budget rebalance that envisions an increase in investment in capital investments, from the original 7.2% to the record 7.8% of gross domestic products. The budget rebalancing for 2021, which we are discussing today, has defined the means to start building a Belgrade subway, then the funds for building a vaccine factory, then the means to complete works on the reconstruction of Serbia's Clinical Centre, then the funds for the construction of waste water treatment plants and sewerage in as many as 70 units of local self-government. There are also funds for the start of the construction of the Danube highway on the move on Povorec to Golubac, then the funds for the Moravia Corridor, etc. The 20-euro budget rebalance for 2021 has defined the funds for the payment of one-time financial assistance to 20-euro Serbian citizens, and 20 euros to all full-time citizens who applied for this type of aid will be paid in December of this year. What is important, we will manage to realise all infrastructure projects, which will preserve macro-economic stability and end the year with public debt below the level of the Mastrict, so with a public debt of 58.2%, in conditions where many developed countries both in the world and in Europe have three-digit public debt rates. What I can see is that the structure of our economy is very good. We have production capacities that are export-oriented and, thanks to that, we managed to grow net exports, but we also managed to cut the current balance of payments deficit. Otherwise, our current balance of payments deficit is fully covered by the inflow of foreign direct investment and Serbia is an absolute record player when it comes to foreign money inflows. Serbia is mainly importing repromaterials, importing machines, importing equipment, and that is another proof of how much investment is being invested in our country today. When you hear members of the government, when you hear representatives of the IMF and the World Bank, when you hear how much Serbia has progressed today, it is quite clear why the target of daily attacks is the family of the President of the Republic, as well as the president himself, and from politicians who don't actually have politics. I am sure that Alexander Vukic, regardless of all the attacks, will never give up his fight for stronger, better, stronger and more modern Serbia, as well as the members of the SNS. So we'll continue to fight in the future for better results. We will continue to work and build, and the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children will support the budget rebalance for 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9995	Thank you, Mrs. Sorceress. The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9996	I thank Dr. Orlic. Dear ministers, respected colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic. I come from Srlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party. I have been selected from the list Alexander Vukić – for our children. I mean, like so far, the Honorable Minister, I will tell you from my heart that you are an excellent acquaintance of financial opportunities, to lead the ministry in the best way, and this is now being shown and proven. You, our government and our president, Serbia, and all of us who are here, are doing our utmost in the interest of all citizens. I have always spoken and spoken in the next period of time about the problems of our villages, our farmers, problems in our small environments, and in southeastern Serbia and other parts of Serbia, but now we can only say commendable things, because now this budget rebalance gives the opportunity to help, first of all, every citizen of our Serbia in this difficult situation, to help every man who needs it. I'm sure through this budget rebalance we'll provide a few things that are important by the end of the year. One of these things is to continue maximum support for our health care. Our healthcare professionals who are really the most burdened right now, we give them maximum support, because now they're fighting for every human life. Here from this place, once again, I call upon all our people, the young and the elderly who have not been vaccinated, to be vaccinated, because this is the only possibility, the only way to save them. In this way we will really protect each individual, whether he is in Srlig, the White Palanca, in another part of Serbia. It is a vaccination of something that we all have to potentiate on, and that's the only thing that's going to give us results. As for health care in Serbia, health care is doing maximum good, people are really all at the highest level of engagement and this is a great need for us right now. Other things, other ministries and everything that is now working here in Serbia, for all of them, I can give a clean ten. I think our government and everything that's been done has shown results, fiscal stability and everything that matters, because it all starts. What else is to say that we must continue with this intensity to do, to build, to build and highways, to build factories, to build new homes of health, all that is necessary in every part of our country of Serbia. The municipalities, such as the municipality of Srljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han and a large number of such municipalities in southeastern Serbia, are working there, with us having to put a higher accent there, that we have to provide greater opportunities there, and on the other hand, to provide more resources for everyone who wants to stay there in some village, in my Srlig, whether in the White Palanca or in another municipality, a young man who wants to stay in that village, to create a family, we have to give these people greater opportunities, and that possibility must be financial in the first part. I think in that part we need to give more attention. One more thing, all of us living in such areas, mostly living off agriculture, and we ourselves are witnessing that without agriculture, there is no development of the economy, there is no development of our country. In that part, we have to put a little bit more apostrophe, precisely because a large number of our agricultural producers, these peasants who live in these areas of ours are really struggling. They were guarding, they were feeding, they were defending the earth. Therefore, we need to find the possibility that by the end of the year what is not paid to pay these people subsidies, that in 2022, the possibility of increasing subsidies for areas with reduced living conditions, to provide more resources for every young person living in the country, who is born there, who want to create families there, that they have greater benefits for themselves and, of course, they will certainly give results. Once again, Your Honor, I support you and as a man, because you really are a great expert, you have results, so keep working and this country will move forward. As president of the United Peasant Party, as a man who supports both the government and our president, I will fully support this budget rebalancing and I expect it to be so with our fellow Members of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9997	I also thank Mr. Miletic. The word is Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9998	I thank you, Vice President, distinguished colleagues and respected citizens of Serbia. Minister Mali, you're kind of challenging extremes, those who criticize you can be brutal, and those who praise you are also out of line, so we who come in turn are in trouble to find the environment. The rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's 2021 budget for the second time in a row, we had this situation last year, is the result of our country's economic progress in this financial year and it is important that we have the funds for additional investment, primarily the most significant sectors of society. It was extremely difficult in 2020 because of the Kovid 19 pandemic, somewhere it had completely disrupted at the world level all development trends and there it seems to me that Serbia remained in the best position compared to what we could see or what we would only watch when it comes to the world scene. Essential progress, in my opinion, in this fiscal year is a reduction in the budget deficit. You announced it, they didn't trust you all. Through this rebalancing it is verified and with a key finding, I really must stress, at the beginning of this discussion. But if we just compare economic statistics for these two years, it is clear that Serbia has taken very safe steps towards achieving its, above all, previously planned development goals, which is faster economic growth through direct foreign investment and strategic infrastructure projects, especially in the area of transport and energy. At the same time, this rebalancing led to the stabilisation of public finances that had to be adapted over the past two years to this hundred times mentioned in the emerging situation caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus. That and that dynamism, above all, in budget planning. That's where the two rebalances are this year. This pace of adapting to the emerging situation and rerouting a large part of the budget to protect the health and life of the population from this severe planetary disease confirms to me the most important fact, which is the good economic policy of the country which has provided greater GDP growth than planned for this year. The planned growth was 6%, and as much as 7% of GDP growth will be achieved, which really proves that there was simply one responsible fiscal policy, but that the government's macroeconomic measures have led to this super-average result, however far this may seem excessive. Perhaps we could say that it is only this year that the quality and result of last year's economic and social policy is actually seen and that only now we have about a definition of what is actually a positive effect of the government's decision that its package measures primarily affect the drastic reduction of the negative effects of Kovid and for the economy, but also for the population. In this year you can see primarily the effect of the economic support measure, from independent trades, to large businesses, because it seems to me that they just came back to life, not to say what they were black hunches -- the survivors absolutely all of them. In last year's rebalancing, and I said there were also two, we remember these different reactions to the government's measures, but now with this rebalancing, it's clear that our macroeconomic strategies still well planned these economic trends, and that's why we were somewhere more successful in the days of Kovid than many more powerful and larger countries in both the region and the world. This October rebalancing forecasts a budget deficit reduction of about 900 billion, if I'm not mistaken, although I don't like to talk about figures. You're here uncircumcised and I just risk being corrected, like my colleague Vujic. Most of the funds are directed at realising capital investments in the area of transport and health, and these capital investments are the ones where most people and business entities are employed first and foremost different profiles and one of the most important tax revenues and factors of accelerated economic development. It is also important for us that just in 2020, the year of acute Kovid, Serbia did not stop. Many capital projects have been launched or even completed both in the field of health care, which has raised the capacity of our health system to oppose Kovid, and in the area of road and rail infrastructure, as well as in the energy sector, I would say not least at this point, not to say the most important. Despite Kovid, Serbia's capital investment in the energy field has been completed, a 403km pipeline that is part of Turkey's flow and has allowed Serbia to position itself as a country of gas transit, which is after the manufacturer's best position. How much of a capital investment is confirmed today when this post-kovid global energy crisis, which has led primarily to a rise in oil and gas prices and when far richer countries simply did not provide a secure supply. It is also very important that the gas storage facility in Banatski Dvor is in place, which allowed us first and foremost to make gas reserves at a lower price, which now gives us a good level of energy stability. Some previous years have also had objections to these energy projects, but here is the time to answer that they were certainly unwarranted. Serbia's gas position is better and no one needs it today and cannot question it. This project also confirms that Serbia is leading a good energy policy that allows us both energy stability and energy security that is important. And another advantage of Serbia is that we have a foothold in different energy sources, it is good to continue to work on the affirmation of green energy sources, as well as on projects to modernise our coal and thermopower mines, which are needed, above all, environmental standards. We know that this energy transition is a long process and that we must not neglect the greening, production of coal and production of electricity from this source, but we are on a good path. I would also like to commend that this rebalancing is increasing the resources to maintain state roads, to support the development of entrepreneurship, to encourage agriculture and rural development measures, as well as for green policies, above all to encourage recycling and re-use of waste. My colleague, Jelena Mihajlovic, also spoke about the funds allocated to culture, I would not be myself if I did not remind you in the 2022 budget that you promised to increase the funds that would be defined for culture from year to year. So I believe in 2022 that we will reach at least 1.5% of the total budget. I know it's a challenge, but I believe your promises, it turns out you always respect what you say. The second division with an increase in funds is the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, where the rebalancing defines more than 237 billion, which is about 65 billion more than the budget of defined funds, and there are capital investments whose realisation will be one of the main drivers of development in the coming years. We have heard, colleagues have talked about what infrastructure projects are, and you yourselves are on the Finance Committee today in your opening statement. What I'm going to point out in the end, perhaps not as the greatest pleasure, is that after several budget cycles, when the government received criticism from the Fiscal Council, this time it was missing and that. We got a positive grade, we might have had some kind of postcard on transparency, but she'd rather not understand the moment if not all the information was for sharing. That's what my colleague Arsic and I talked about, even when he was the Committee on Business. So, the fiscal council whose criticisms you were often exposed to justifiably or unwarrantedly, however, this time had to give a positive assessment with a less critical view. My colleagues before me said we'd certainly support the budget's rebalance proposal. I don't think you had that dilemma even when you came here, first of all because when the rebalancing of this guy is where we don't have to explain that we're short on money, but that we're out of line, then the least support MPs can give to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u9999	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10000	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear Ministers Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this budget rebalance for 2021 speaks enough about what the economic successes were and what the economic results of the Republic of Serbia were, not only in this year, but are one set of results relating to 2020, which is a crisis year, a year marked by a severe pandemic crisis, which was once overrun to a global level and an individual level of national states, where most countries in the world have seen a huge decline, in order to put it economically, of economic growth. Some countries in our environment have even seen declines of 15% of GDP, countries such as Austria recorded a historically poor score on the unemployment rate that exceeded at one point in 2020, 20%. In all this time, Serbia has succeeded thanks to one thought-out economic policy and strategy and you, Mr. Minister, but of course with the stick of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic to bring in the optimal and good measures it will have, not only in the short term, but as far as we can see the long-term effect, and it is seen that our country is obviously going to be the GDP champion this year at the end of this year. When we compare 2020 and 2021, when we calculate this level of economic growth, Serbia is definitely, Serbia will be the country with the largest economic growth in Europe. It's not just a question of numbers, it's not a question of whether it's going to be 7%, whether it's 7.2%. We think it's going to be about 7.5%. This is a historical level when it comes to GDP growth, this should be noted, but something more important than that concerns improving the economic environment and the overall economic climate in our country and introducing a large dose of optimism on new investments, opening new jobs. This can be seen on the ground, we can see on a daily basis that in Serbia almost every day new factories are opening up in different parts of our country, new jobs are opening up, new technological science parks are opening up. Our country is making progress on innovation, introducing new technologies, progressing on science, scientific achievements, research and, of course, becoming one kind of economic hub that is very interesting for all the world's meridians and companies that come to Serbia from all over the world. So, without rules and without asking questions about where they came from, we finally confirmed it through numerous international activities, through the numerous activities of our President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic on the international agenda, which he managed to create and create for our country new partners in a very short time, restore alliances and restore traditional partnerships with many countries. So another confirmation of such a prudent and wise foreign policy, the philigrantly measured and the Summit of non-classified countries that took place here in Belgrade on the 60th anniversary, where the opportunity and opportunity we definitely took to restore economic relations with many countries of Africa, Asia, Latin America, to restore political alliances, but to focus these political alliances on what is the well-being and well-being of our citizens, on new investments, on strengthening trade and on a simple new political doctrine introduced by our president, which is the defence of vital and national interests. I can freely say that the impact on these seven, seven and a half percent GDP growth is something that represents, in fact, that result is the largest type of patriotism in one country. Today, in the 21st century in this globalised world, in a major crisis in which the world is located, a small country that was very poor until yesterday, which even the natural resources it had, the human resources it had, did not know and, of course, the political elites didn't even want to use those resources in the right way, nor did it interest them, began to modernize and begin to create an economically strong, powerful state that is definitely becoming the only sovereign state in this part of Europe and in which its president and leader can make sovereign decisions that are in the best interests of its citizens, which is Serbia. This has proved many times how economic development is, in fact, economic progress is significant for the overall development of society, for the country's overall development and for our geopolitical positioning. The previous speakers spoke in a great way about key aspects and parameters concerning this budget rebalance compared to the impact on the reduction of the fiscal deficit, on public debt, on Mastricht, on our commitments to international organisations and economic projections. I will talk a little bit about the impact of this budget rebalancing and our economic progress on the geopolitical of our country, on everything that is a challenge and what will be a challenge for our country, and what may be naked in everyday life and not seen, something which our government and our president are exposed almost daily to, in terms of the geopolitical positioning of our country, the defence of our vital national interests, defences and struggles for the Republic of Serbia, for our people, the Serb people who live in the region and for the defense of its interests and its survival in the countries where it lives, where it existes and where it works. What I would specifically point out and where the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where our country has done a lot in terms of national security and economic security itself, therefore, economic security, is an energy field. I'll just point out one fact, let's just say, that in just a few days in the U.S. natural gas gallon has accumulated from 1.5 to $3.35. You can imagine what a leap, what kind of turbulence on the market would cause the price of gas in Serbia or, God forbid, oil or oil derivatives to rise in just a few days by 100 or 150%, how much that would shift market movements and how much it would disrupt everything we planned on economic growth, attract investment and what we are known for, not only in Europe, but in the whole world, and that is that we are a stable country, a country where you can invest, to design what its fiscal policy will be, what taxes will be, and you can project it for a medium and long term period. Of course, as one good knower, I have repeatedly spoken here in parliament that I believe that it is one of the best finance ministers in all of Europe, you have well designed and defined the policy of stability as something that defines our economic policy, and that is why we have so much investment, so 62% of total investment in the Western Balkan countries flows into Serbia, because here when investors come, whether from Japan, the United Arab Emirates, China, from any country, they know in advance, in a year two or three, what a tax rate will be, that it will not be changed just because someone has not enough knowledge or has some current political or daily need, but that the state is leading, especially its economy, in one strategic, tactical, very thoughtful way, and there we have actually earned this epithet of a safe zone for investment, because you know that when you invest in Serbia, you can're not particularly aware of the fact that you can't. We've secured the energy. We have provided very correct energy prices, starting with electricity, gas, oil derivatives. We didn't allow that because we have a lot of big supplies, especially when it comes to gas, it has the most to do with the economy, because many companies, many production plants, actually depend on what gas supply will be and what the price of gas will be. This is about a strategic policy and that in time it was thought that one such crisis could occur, where they are now being held by the head in one Germany, in France, in Italy, when gas prices are rampant and those who wanted to invest in new plants, new jobs now have to withdraw or have to withdraw many of their plans and investments, and therefore have a negative impact on both the gross domestic product and the development of those countries. Serbia and Serbian citizens, as President Aleksandar Vukic said well, should not worry about it, households should not worry about it, business should not worry about it. So today Serbia may be the only country in Europe in which you have a new investor almost every week, each week someone new comes to open a new plant, a new factory, is interested in building in Serbia. We have an increase in the construction industry almost 100% on the annual level. It is very easy to see and conclude, when you look at the number of building permits and compare it with the previous period and with previous years, you realize that the construction industry, the infrastructure, the travel industry, simply have this quantum jump that is needed and that actually creates jobs. We are one of the few countries in Europe that has managed to lead the economy to the situation so as not to have a drastic growth in unemployment. What's more, we need labour. Since we have stopped this "brain draine", we have stopped the outflow of young and educated people in other countries, especially in the European Union countries, I fear that in the next few years, we have absolutely no problem right now with finding a job in Serbia, an adequate job, in line with professional training and qualifications, I am afraid that we will come into a situation that we will not have the workforce. That is why President Aleksandar Vukic is working so committedly to improving the demographic characteristics of the country and inciting birth, an innovative policy that is very important because, of course, if there are more of us, we will have more and more resources, we will have more opportunities to ensure further modernisation and growth and in the coming period. So, I think it's a key thing that has shown how important it is that people who are known, people who know what the state is just managing the state, it's about energy, where we opened one possibility, it's presented here in budget rebalancing, it's funded and it's interconnecting gas with Bulgaria. To make this closer and better explained to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is that Serbia wants to diversify its gas supply. This interconnection to Bulgaria will lead to new routes of gas supply, so we will get gas from Greece, it is specifically about American gas, and we are opening Serbia as a single country that is actually a competition site, a serious market for which big world players will fight, when it comes to selling and supplying energy. Of course, the more competition there is, the better for our citizens. The more competition there is, the better for our economy, because simply prices will be more favourable, prices will be better and, of course, products themselves will be cheaper. This will generally affect product prices and improve the standard of living for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As regards this economic growth and development and this economic growth of 7.5%, it should be pointed out in particular that this is actually the source of this sovereignty of our country and that is the source, this is what Vukic was talking about in 2014, that only in this way, if we are economically empowered, if we are militaryly strengthened, we can run our own policy and we can manage our own country on our own. I would like to point out that this country and that our president has been exposed over the past few years to the enormous pressures of certain foreign countries, foreign centres of power. Unfortunately, over the past few months, we have seen that this campaign continues here and on the internal agenda, that these actions are coordinated, and only for one simple reason -- that they cannot manipulate Vukic, which they cannot order him to do, and that they tell him which minister to be for which resolution in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but those decisions are made in Serbia, are made in our institutions and ultimately brought by citizens and made by the people of the Republic of Serbia. I'll remind the citizens how much pressure there was when the Chinese came to invest here, on their so-called. Malignant influence, on their investments. Now we have about six billion euros in projects in common with NR China companies, which employ tens of thousands of people in our country. When it comes to the Russian Federation, how much pressure it has been to impose sanctions on the Russian Federation, to bring our country's foreign policy into line with the European Union's foreign policy. Vukic said - no, it is not our people's interest, it is not our country's interest, we will take care of our interest and resist that interest. Because we had the strength to resist, because we had enough money to start some projects ourselves, but also to attract some others to whom we became interesting, because we showed that we could take care of ourselves, not ask for charity, as it was in the period between 2000 and 2012, when our economy was completely torn apart by a variety of speculative privatisations, robberies and all that contributed to our country's reverse on the economic plan. Washington deal. Mr. Minister, were you in Washington? You weren't there by accident when that agreement was signed. Does anyone think that Vucic would have managed to fight, that point 10 of the Washington Agreement, that he didn't have so much support for the citizens, that he didn't have enough power, but also trust in his country and in the strength of his country, that we could move on and that we could resist these pressures? Of course, in the end, your delegation came back with a good deal. Finally, after so many years, our country's delegation returns with a good agreement in our country that will contribute to the improvement of the lives of the citizens of our country and our people, new investments, new sources of stability and of course of co-operation and new trust between the United States and Serbia. The Brussels Agreement. Although, of course, one part of these agreements, the large part about the other side is not being met, we have shown that we are a serious country, that we are a reliable partner, and all of this has affected that we can resist the pressures and that we can deal with these pressures. Finally, I would like to mention the "Open Balkans" as an excellent initiative, as a continuation of the continuity of his 2016 ideas on the customs union, which will definitely contribute to the country's strategic progress on its own. Ours is the EU's strategic foreign policy goal, but no one can even prevent us from co-operating under the Open Balkans initiative with Albania, Northern Macedonia and whoever wants to join us so that we can develop our trade and economic relations. No one can prevent us from working with the Visegrad Group, I am even personally as an MP and advocate and I am not hiding that Serbia should also be part of the Visegrad Group, since these are countries with which Serbia has no political problem, and there are many, many opportunities for economic and other co-operation. This is the Serbia that Vucic made one country that is acceptable to everyone in the East and to those in the West, which, when it should have resisted certain pressures for the sake of well-being and for the sake of the interests of its own people. It shows what a true leader is, it shows what a serious sovereign state is at this time in the 21st century, which leads a sovereign and serious leader. So, of course, according to the latest research that I had the chance to see yesterday, President Aleksandar Vukic, as a person and historical support of our citizens, 150 days before the elections, over 70% as a person has by research of the "Facor Plus" agency. It speaks enough about what path Serbia is on, how good, how positive this path is and how much in fact political and economic and all other reforms will still be carried out and how far Serbia will progress because what SNS and Aleksandar Vucic recognizes our people, sees it on the ground, sees it in everyday life after all, sees it in the house, sees it in his workplace, and eventually sees it in his wallet through this increase in the profits of one-time assistance. Those who rebel against these steam helicopters, which of course have several thousand euros in salary, of course, are also rebelling against it, but do not understand how important it is and how important it is for a country to make a good environment and a good climate when it comes to the economy, when it comes to employment and new investment. We will continue to strongly support this kind of reform policy that records huge results, and no other choice has been made, we have a choice for Serbia to modernise, we have a choice to follow our President Alexander Vukic's policy, that policy gives results, and of course we will continue to follow that policy here in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10001	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10002	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it's not uncommon for us to have budget rebalances in October or November, that's what happens. However, this rebalancing is much different than all the rebalancing I attended when the former regime changed its budget laws. Do you know why they changed the Budget Law or brought rebalancing what it's called? Well, because their planned revenues were less than achieved, so the deficit in the state register had to be compensated by raising new loans and by new borrowing of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now we have one quite different rebalancing, now we have a rebalancing when the revenues that have been made are larger than planned and therefore requires that these revenues be made in accordance with the policy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, but there is a big difference between those budget rebalancings and today's. As with any budget rebalancing, so does some budget law. I remember, Mr. Minister, how the former regime attacked our Budget Law, as they claimed to us that the expected tax revenues and movements of our economy were unrealistically high and that they could not be realised. But, well, let's say it was November, December 2020. That's what they said in April 2021. That's what they gave us for you and for us who wanted to vote. They claimed that incomes were quite optimistic, that they should have been more conservative, that we don't have to subsidize the economy so much, that we don't have to give it to our citizens so much, that it's a waste of money, to make cheap political points. We were attacked, and the Fiscal Council attacked us by that Danica Popovic, I think, that plagiarist, also attacked us by Milojko Arsic. In fact, they were saying what Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, expected of them, the former regime. In every way, they tried to demonstrate the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia, the policy of President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, failed and not responsible. Now we have a situation where we have a billion and almost 800m euros in revenue achieved more than planned, and they were more achieved because we were primarily conservative, we couldn't predict exactly what the movements would be, given that the coronary epidemic is still going on and that it participates not only in our economic flows but in our economic flows in the world. We can say that we could afford that luxury, because we're redeploying more money, more than we expected, we don't need new loans, we don't need new debts. It is important to point out in this budget rebalancing. This is the difference between our budget rebalance and budget rebalances brought by Tadic, Djilas and Jeremic, with them there has always been a new debt, with them the economy has not worked, and that is why we have had such rebalancing. They were, I may say, very present and 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, so let me say in 2012, you were not yet Minister of Government at the time. When we looked at our public finances on June 30, 2012. So it's still the former regime in power, they've just lost the presidential election and parliamentary elections, but they're still exercising power. 95% of total planned deficits were achieved and only 60% of planned tax revenues for the period until June 30th. That's how they led Serbia. Worst of all, they are now trying at least to create some media image in front of Serbian citizens so that they can lead Serbia better now than we do. Those who brought us into a very difficult situation. Here, now there's always a topic amongst citizens, I can say two, which are how they relate to our budget, let's say, inflation. Here, and yesterday it was at a meeting of the Committee on Finance, how much inflation in the Republic of Serbia, and how it all went, so it was the minister's fault, what was the government's fault, that it was the president's fault. Well, they're proposing some measures, we'll talk about it later. Mr. Minister, they say very high inflation 5.7%. I agree it's not small, but what inflation it was during their rule. In 2008, citizens should know that, especially those younger ones, were very small, so they did not know that this is happening in Serbia and what these are like while they are in power. In 2008, inflation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia was 10.9% almost twice as much as it was in 2021. In 2009, 10.1%, 2010. 8.6%, in 2011, it's a record year, as they say by foreign direct investment, I'd like ministers to finally explain to us why they sell one trade chain, we run as a direct foreign investment? What kind of methodology is that? But in 2011, inflation was 11% when they had the largest foreign investment. Here's what it's been like since the SNS was in power. Year 2012 and 2013 7.8% and these were the largest of our inflation years, in 2014 2.9%, that's the year in which we start reforming our economic system and sorting out our public finances, 2015 1.9%, 2016 1.2%, 2017 3%, 2018 2%, 2019 1.7%, 2020 1.6%. If all these years, since SNS was in power, not counting on 2012 and 2013, I don't know whether Tadic, Djilasov, Jeremic, I really don't know, for me they're all the same, they're all former regimes, they're all from DS, they have 16 parties now, that's because they can't see each other's eyes, but if they get a chance to come to power, there they are together in each other's laps, believe Mr. Minister, and let them believe that, too, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. He says, for example, there is now a theme about energy, the price of oil derivatives, said this way – that oil derivatives prices are unwarrantedly high because the Republic of Serbia has an unwarranted high excise duty on oil derivatives. That's what a man says, and it's the easiest thing to say – hey, people are expensive for you, the state takes a lot, it takes away from you, that's why it's expensive fuel. Well, Mr. Minister, you and I both know that excises since SNS on oil derivatives haven't changed, they're the same. Nothing's changed. They're their excises, they're their procedures. It seems to me that in 2012 the fuel prices were very similar to today. So, it's nothing unusual, but if we had the same perfomanses in many ways as to how to say in 2009, GDP growth in Serbia is less than 2.7%, the global economic crisis says. Here, and we were hit by the global economic crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, but we had a minus 0.9% unlike their minus 2.7%. In 2010, the U.S. 0.7% of GDP growth, today's growth is 7%. Ten times better, and the economic crisis is even more pronounced than in 2008 or 2009. In 2011, GDP growth is 11%, 2012, which is still their government's year, regardless of what then broke out, minus 0.7%. That's what it looks like when the former regime ruled. How they think they convince the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they are better and should vote for them in the elections. Now, Mr. Minister, here's another very interesting piece of information everyone knows, at least who's and who's doing a little economic work on the territory of the Republic of Serbia that we've always had a big problem between imports and exports, or that our imports have been more than exporting your economy. Imports, for example, amounted to 14 billion and 250m euros in 2011, and exports of the Republic of Serbia in 2019 amounted to 17 billion 536m. We have more exports today than those thieves in the former regime had imports. Or maybe it won't mean much to anyone, 2008 exports were 7 billion and 422 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the Those who know how to count, even on the digitron, know that exports today are twice as much, more than twice as much as they were during the former regime, and that imports didn't increase nearly twice as much. It's a novelty. Well, I don't know how they think they're justifying it, and how they think they're showing the citizens that they would rule Serbia better than the current government and the current regime at this point. The number of employees, beware at the beginning, of the thikuk ex- regime, in 2008, 2 million 821 thousand and seven hundred. You know how long it was in the end? We want 2011 or 2012, is a very similar result, two million 228,300 citizens. Difference, 593 grand. So 593,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia lost their jobs while the former regime ruled. So, Mr. Minister, a thousand euros per head of lost employment, that's how much Gilas made during that period, a little more, 1200 euros per job became richer Gilas, for every job that was closed in Serbia. And he earned 650m euros, so you figure out how many people lost their jobs and he would rule Serbia better now than the current regime does. Today, come 2020, so in 2012, there were 2 million 228 thousand, and in 2020, 2 million 894.800 you have employees in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is more for some 73,000 than in 2008, and 600,000 more than in 2012. These are accurate data and no one can challenge them. Then you, Mr. Minister, that former regime, Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic, says we don't know what we're doing, that we can't run the country. They're talking about some sort of alleged dictatorship. That democracy, Mr. Minister, I felt on my skin between the two rounds of presidential elections. I was holding a press conference when I was attacked in front of the cameras, physically, and do you think it was a television broadcast? You think some media published it? It's not one. People's ambassador attacked, no. That's not what you were talking about. It's a dictatorship. The dictatorship is what Tadic, Jeremic, Djilas conducted. They don't get attacked, they can talk, they can gather, now, the other thing is they can't bring people together because no one trusts them anymore, but they're not the markings of dictatorship. No one is to blame for the fact that, during their rule, 600,000 people were out of work, that many factories were shut down. Here, just one more piece of information. You see what it looks like, say, the middle rate of the dinar towards the euro -- in 2008, there was 81 dinars and 40 pairs, there was already a disturbance. In 2009, 94 dinars, 2010 was 103 dinars, 2011 was 102 dinars, in 2012, in 6 August, when the current governor entered the National Bank, the course of dinars according to the euro was 119,80. Today, it's 117.60. It's smaller than during their rule. This is just one small part of the difference between us and them, one small part between their actions and the results of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic. But what I've mentioned now is more than enough so that this thieving group, whatever they are called, whatever coalition they're making, will never return to power from the DS led by Boris Tadic, Djilas and Jeremic. Then we have this crazy situation that those who robbed the state, Gilas, in particular, talk about someone, have the right to say that the Tax Administration should question the business, even the son of the President of the Republic, only talks about one impotence but something much more important, which is that this team is to come back to power and steal from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia again does not choose funds, so at the cost and physical liquidations. But the citizens of Serbia, I am quite sure that they have long recognized it, and that only in their dreams can the group dream of ruling Serbia again, kidnapping Serbia again, stealing and being richer again. One more thing, I'd like both the judicial and prosecutorial authorities to do their job. We also look forward to Gilas and Jeremic in a village near Požarec, left for us by Prince Mihajlo Obrenović and not Ljubicevo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10003	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10004	Thank you very much. Dear Sir Arsic, if you'll allow me a few things just to repeat or explain it for the citizens of Serbia, because you started talking about a few topics that are very important, especially when it comes to course and inflation. So let's compare this way that the previous government reacted to one by one and by the smaller crisis in 2008 and the way we reacted when the pandemic of the Coronus virus broke out. This is important to me that all Serbian citizens understand. So one of the most important factors affecting inflation is exactly the course. Now look at their policy, you just got the exact information. So, from 2008 to August 2012, the course rose from 81 to 119 dinars for the euro. Just imagine, then, in just four years, 50% of the rate has increased, by so much he has weakened the dinar compared to the euro, in just four years. At the same time inflation was double-digit. You said it yourself. Just so the citizens of Serbia understand, that was just the economic policy of the previous regime. So, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, put money on his own account and in his own pocket, and on the other hand, through a high rate of inflation, through a change of course, you are devising every salary increase and every increase in pensions and their policy and in 2008 when they twice increased pensions both in 2009 and 2010 when they spoke of wage increases, about the concern they have for Serbian citizens, whatever they have raised, they have come up with an increase in inflation, they have come up with a change in course. In real terms, Serbian citizens had fewer and fewer and more poorer. This is important to me also to mention when you talk about double-digit inflation rates 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, these are average rates at year level. When you're talking about inflation rates today, yes, we have a higher inflation rate in August and September of the month, but when you look at the average, it's still at the target, target level of the National Bank, from about 3% on average. So that's very important to point out. For Serbian citizens, to know, by projections and estimates of the International Monetary Fund and of all relevant institutions, this is about the temporary increase in inflation, so not the one caused by structural imbalances such as 2008 to 2012, but the increase in inflation caused by the disturbances, mostly on the cost side, so on the arbitrary side due to supply chains, which are caused by the predominantly global pandemic of the coronary virus. What the President, or Director, of the International Monetary Fund Mission, Jan Case said on Friday and President Vukic, we expect that in the second quarter of next year, energy prices and inflation will be stabilised, as these supply chains will be consolidated in the right way. So that's very important to point out, that difference. Their economic policy not to let the course grow, let inflation fry, which would say citizens are getting poorer, then factories are closed, then 100,000 people are out of work. Ask only the businessmen, their main theme at the end of the year was – what will be the course, what will be the course differences and how will these exchange rates kill their balance of success, or what they have worked for throughout the year. Now those fears don't exist. Economic policy is stable, the course is also at a time of the greatest global economic crisis, caused by the pandemic of the corona virus has not changed, inflation is also stable. We now have short-term disorders, but not to the detriment of Serbian citizens, on the other hand, there is a state that supports both the economy and the citizens through the programmes. So, a huge difference in economic policy. So it's just not even comparable. I'm glad you mentioned these people, because these are now the great critics of this economic policy, which has never more growth rates for our economy, the result has never been higher salaries, safe and growing pensions, record employment, record number of factories that we open, miles of new highways, railways, new hospitals, new kindergartens, so we fight for every new job, we fight for lives, a better standard for our citizens of Serbia, and not as you yourself said, like some Dragan Gilas who earned 619m euros and put his pockets in those years, from 2008 to 2012, and citizens suffered this huge inflation, and these huge jumps in the course. So, I absolutely just wanted to say it one more time, you hit the target in terms of the difference in their policy and ours, that's that part of monetary policy, and fiscal policy is just different, and I wouldn't want to be much longer, we're going to have a chance to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10005	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10006	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, today in this high House we are discussing the rebalancing of the second budget this year and all economic parameters show that it is justified, because economies and jobs during the pandemic that is still being preserved, that the economy has shown resilience and that we continue with further economic results. The two most important reasons that justify this proposed rebalancing are the increase in capital investment from 7.2% to 7.8%. In actual figures, this actually means that 478 billion dinars will only be invested in capital investments from the budget and another reason is the increase in the standard of living of citizens. I am pleased to point out only some of the capital investments provided for in this budget rebalance, although my colleagues and colleagues in today's debate pointed out. Therefore, the continuation of the construction of the Moravian Corridor, the construction of the Danube highway and other roads that will eventually, after so long, network Serbia, the bypass around Užica, Gornji Milanovac, Loznica, the construction of nine homes of health in Serbia, in Grockoj, in Čukarica, in Raca, Sombor, Loznica and Medvedji. For the first time in Serbia's history, we can boast of the fact that sewage and water treatment plants will be built in 70 local self-government and for the first time, after so many promises, we finally have a real possibility that the construction of a metro in Belgrade will begin in November next year. It is only part of the capital investment envisioned by this rebalancing, which are constantly changing the image of Serbia. Foreign direct investment from the beginning of the year to today was 2.4 billion euros. It is an impressive figure not only for Serbia, but for the whole region. For the first nine months, Serbia's budget is better for 1.5 billion euros and this is really great news for Serbian citizens, although this year has been difficult and challenging, the deficit will be 4.9%, the share of public debt in GDP will be 58.2%, the total GDP by the end of the year will be 7.8%, with the announced salary and pension increase, which will make the average salary of 620 euros by the end of the year in Serbia, all of which are results that encourage and give security to Serbian citizens and who give real hope that the economic project "Serbia 2025" will indeed have 900 euros in average salary in Serbia. It is very important that you pointed out this morning when explaining this budget rebalancing that all the obligations of the Serbian, Serbian government, and to citizens and foreign investors and domestic ones, of course, were met in the day. It creates one trust, one business climate that is necessary for the further development of Serbia's economy. It sounds amazing that at this point, before the end of the year, we have 300 billion dinars in the budget, that the state is completely liquid and that these are all really facts that indicate that the economy in Serbia has recovered faster than expected and that we will be in three countries in Europe at the rate of growth. All of these are real indicators that in some ways encourage citizens of Serbia not to be afraid and the coming energy crisis that many countries in the world fear and have shown, indeed, even though the project was difficult to implement and expensive, that the South Stream was a great hit why Serbia joined in providing Serbian citizens with energy. In my opinion, that is why three priorities are important in the next period - economic stability, faster economic growth and implementation of reforms. These are three priorities that are important for a better standard of living for all citizens. I cannot help but say in this debate today that inadmissible attempts are made to put all the efforts and results Serbia achieves in the economy, which is also suggested by the latest report by the European Commission and the IMF and the World Bank, to put these results in second because of a constant attack on Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and his family. I would agree with your assessment, Minister Mali, that a special war has been waged against President Vukic for a long time and that the constant attacks of Croatian media on the Vucic family have been indicated. The criminalisation of the president and his family is being raced by individual representatives of the opposition who definitely know that citizens will not trace them, because when they had the chance to show it, they showed in a bad way how much they care about Serbian citizens. With contempt, I must say that nowhere in the world shows so much hatred for the success that our country shows as we do, as the on-call haters in each of their written words show. But I'm also sure it won't take 619 years, not all the time in the world, that Serbian citizens believe a single word they say or write. These are concrete results, the rebalance shows how much the projects are invested in, the citizens see everything and the elections are very close. In the voting day, I will support the proposed rebalancing and follow-up laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10007	Thank you. The next is National MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10008	The respected chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the budget rebalance on the agenda today can also be seen as a rebalancing of Serbia's future, given that at this moment we are talking about a new value, a new 183 billion dinar, which will be distributed through this rebalancing facility in the best interests of all those living in Serbia and the budget that moves the scale up from year to year. Every next rebalancing shows that we as a state are going even faster and even stronger and better, as we have announced in campaigns in previous years. That it can go faster, harder and better, this revision also shows, but 183 billion or about 1.5 billion euros will be divided equally according to needs. This primarily refers to three billion in fiscalization. Finally, all economic operators will perform fiscalisation and be paid out of the budget. So 2.7 billion will re-enter and strengthen agriculture, regardless of all the contributions we have had in both the regular budget and the previous budget rebalances. Ecology, energy efficiency, vaccine factory. The vaccine factory in Serbia as a factory that will show that this is Serbia's future, a Serbia that really thinks about every citizen, but, above all, thinks it's from its own sources and from its own resources. What they often attack, including the Fiscal Council, is that certain funds are not spent transparently enough, surely they are wrong and I am sorry that the President of the Council is not there. What I'm trying to say is that every decision related to incentives, related to the Public Investment Office, is a three-time decision, once cut. Just so you know, this particular ministry and this minister do not allow any decision to be taken when capital investment is at stake and when it comes to incentive measures, and for these measures and for these incentives there is no funding in the budget. What this rebalancing also shows also shows is that we are as a state, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also as the National Assembly, on the right track, that Alexander Vukic's policy is a policy that has managed to deal with all the problems, and indeed there have been many. As the Cerska Battle is being studied at military schools, how we managed to defeat such a great force, so in years behind us they will study how Alexander Vukic managed to use this difficult economic crisis as an advantage and to come out as winners through the economic crisis. When the pandemic of all countries appeared and in the environment, but also in Europe and the world, they used the pandemic in their impotence, in the inability to respond properly with their policy, as an excuse not to move on and not to know what to do. Only the state of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic recognized the pandemic as an opportunity to further boost investments, new jobs and construction and capital projects. These capital projects will certainly mark a special period of the pandemic. The factories that were built during this period, hospitals, primarily the hospice of the hospital, and roads, highways that someone could only dream of, they couldn't even make a pre-election promise, and they lied big time. Now, they couldn't even make a pre-election promise, and that they couldn't pre-electionly promise Alexander Vukic made the move. What's also important is that the warnings that come under the premise of the warning, and the opinion that something is not good from the Fiscal Council, so there's something good and there's something about controlling both what needs and what doesn't need. Regardless of what the Fiscal Council is saying, this rebalancing is clear, Alexander Vukic's policy is also clear, and that is a policy of fair relations with citizens. Optimism present in Serbia, when it comes to the budget, is real and projects planned and at the level of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but it is important to say, and at the level of municipal and urban budgets is the policy of real projects, that we plan only what we have resources for, that we plan only what we can pay for and that we only plan what is in the citizens' interest. What is not clear to Gilasu, Tadic, Jeremic, is how someone with a budget like this manages to build this kind of capital projects, roads, hospitals, schools, sports facilities. What we're going to do in the field of sports is just a special story. Indeed, anyone who knows, and it is known that nothing was done in the previous period, that sports facilities were destroyed, that our villages were half abandoned, and in those places where they stayed in power a little longer as if time had stopped. They stayed in the 20th century, and it seems to me that from that 20th century they won't even come out, given that their only policy is politics – I hate Vukic. Let them hate each other as much as they want, and the politics of lies, the politics of false promises and the story that will be something that has never been, and what they promise to promise their authority, which has proved to be the worst in the recent history of our beautiful state of Serbia. Their policy of lies is simply doomed. Among other things, they have no support. They can't agree between themselves or where they're going, let alone direct their citizens in that direction. What's more important, and I'm going to slowly bring the end because my colleagues were very exhausted during today's discussion, that's to say, it should be repeated, that we are a deficit that was planned, or that the deficit is less than 5%, 4.9%, and it was planned to 6.9%. Can you imagine a budget that is restrictive in terms of expenditure and that is planned on a realistic basis, which is increased by 183 billion? At the same time, it is really information that Serbian citizens need to know, which is that at this point the state of Serbia has 16.8 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, that we have 36.9 tonnes of gold as a basis to show how strong this country is, how serious this country is, and we had 15. As compared to today, the country located in our neighbourhood, which is located in the EU, does not have a gram of that gold in the reserve. This is the country of Croatia. Well, then those who, among other things, force politics as a major policy -- hate the Wolf, let them see with them what they will do. Serbian citizens love Vukic, love what he does and are sure of Serbia's future and their future. What we expect is that, in the next period, this limit of spending and budget growth is still raised at the next session. We will see by the end of the year the budget for next year, but what is certain is the security of Serbia, the secure policy of Aleksandr Vukic and the future that our citizens will take care of because they will vote for Alexander Vukic, and that is certainly the present, but also the future of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10009	Thank you, Mr. Birmanchevic. The next is National MP Dr Petar Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10010	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected ministers with associates, today we have a budget rebalance for 2021 and this is the continuation of a progressive economic policy run by the Republic of Serbia today. The pandemic of the coronary virus lasts back more than a year and a half and the coronary virus has really changed the way we live, but it changes both economic and economic conditions in which all countries exist and operate. Even the largest and most developed countries have not been able to find the right way to fight the crown and have found themselves in a position to have a huge job loss and to have factory and production facilities shut down. In contrast, Serbia has managed to ensure economic and economic stability and security through one responsible planning policy since 2012. Serbia and our economy have managed to maintain peace and stability in our economy and economy at the time of the largest pandemic and at the time of a major economic collapse, to ensure a secure and stable state reserve. We have managed to attract the largest number of foreign direct investments in the Republic of Serbia, but we have also managed to preserve the number of jobs most importantly, we have managed to significantly increase salaries and pensions, and the state has had enough money to help direct donations to all Serbian citizens in addition to the pandemic and these major crises by two years at 200 euros in total, and even more are the most vulnerable, and these are the unemployed and our pensioners. The state didn't stop at that. At the time of the pandemic, the Republic of Serbia was able to increase investment, both in health care, restoring, investing in health centres and hospitals, as well as by building those projects that were long forgotten, such as the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Clinical Centre Nis which stood unfinished for more than 30 years, then the University of Vojvodina Clinical Centre, and at the time of the pandemic when we had a large number of patients and when we needed new capacities despite all the crises, we managed to raise enough money to build three completely new, modern and functional hospitals dealing with the treatment of patients. As someone who comes from Prokuplje, I'm really proud that Prokuplje is back a few years, and all thanks to the serious policy of President Alexander Vukic, but also to the serious people in Prokuplje, above all Professor. Darka Laketic, managed to attract more than 60m euros of direct investment to our city, and that is what we are really proud of. One city that has an annual budget of over two million dinars in a few years managed to invest more than 60m euros in the reconstruction of the gymnasium, reconstruction, construction of a new health centre, new markets, to build new kindergartens, to prepare for the opening of a completely new industrial zone, but also to agree with the state to provide and build a highway for Nis – Pristina, or "the highway of peace", which will significantly affect the development of not only Toplice and Prokuplja, but also the whole of Serbia, and which will continue the declared peace policy of the President of the Republic to build peace in Serbia, in addition to everything we've been through with the region, to build a future, which is primarily economic co-operation and peaceable tones that Serbia today provides. The town of Prokuplje will soon be richer for a health center. It's a new, completely modern health center of the Cup that extends to over 30 thousand square meters. It was a health center that was started in the '80s that had never been completed. It's a health center that many promised, but no one could keep that promise. The only president who has promised it with certainty and whose promise is fulfilled is the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic. In a few days, the second phase of building a health center that is also covered by the rebalancing of today's budget should begin. I am really proud of it and these are investments of over 5.5m euros. This involves the complete internal arrangement of the health center and the subsequent purchase of the most modern equipment. It will be the health center that will be the most modern in this part of the Balkans, where we will monitor the patient's vital parameters on the bracelet, where we will have all modern diagnostic equipment and all the equipment needed to provide health and assistance to Serbian citizens. Indeed, the citizens of Prokupja are proud, not only of Prokupja, but of the entire Toplice, and these are the municipalities of Blace, Kursumli and Žitoraj. It's something that will affect, i.e. A health center that will affect and provide health and assistance to our future, to our children, and to our fathers and to us when we grow old. In addition, another very important project is covered by budget rebalancing, which is the construction of a sewage network and waste water treatment system. It's one of the great projects that will affect the healthy environment, and especially that will preserve ours, especially that will preserve our Toplice, which is a river that is proud of the entire Toplička district. As a health care worker, I must also mention something that is extremely important for all of us, which is that the Republic of Serbia has identified large funds, over 30m euros, for the renewal and for the arrangement of the Torlak Institute. The Torlak Institute was built in 1930, and it was entered in gold letters in the medicine of Yugoslavia. It is one of the institutes dealing with the study of viruses, microbes and which created the most famous and valuable, one of the safest and safest vaccines, which saved millions of lives, not only people in Yugoslavia, but also those of the unclassified and less developed countries. Unfortunately, after 2000, we had a situation where certain corrupt politicians, who were also more interested in making money and providing the market for Torlak vaccines to some large pharmaceutical houses, influenced the destruction of Torlak and the reduction of the touch and the placing of unprofessional frames on the head of Torlak is a waste of the professional staff that functioned in Torlak. Today, just a few days ago, Professor Danica Grujic was vaccinated with the first vaccine produced on Torlak. It's a vaccine against the coronary virus and it's a vaccine that's completely safe and that's completely safe and that they created and produced our people. I'm really proud of that. I must point out that Serbia was the first country in Europe to carry out more than four types of vaccines for its citizens. We were among the first in Europe to vaccinate the largest number of citizens with this vaccine, but now we have a problem that in Serbia today we have more than seven thousand patients with the coronary virus. It is simply impossible for our citizens to trust the quasi experts on YouTube with translated clips on YouTube, some of the texts of the people on Instagram more than they trust the experts on speaking and fighting the crown every day. My colleagues have been fighting back for every life for a year and a half, fighting for every citizen in Serbia. They're day and night in suitors, day and night wearing masks. Imagine what it's like to wear a scuffander at minus four, five degrees today, and what it was like to wear a scuffander at plus 40 degrees this summer. My friend got out of the hospital a few days ago. There was a total of 30 days, 10 days in intensive care. Treatment in intensive care cost over 850,000 dinars. The most expensive medicines that many countries today cannot afford were included. We are not sorry to help our citizens, to provide the cheapest and most expensive medicines, to provide both modern therapy and the one that is necessary and that can help them. We're sorry that people still die of the crown today, which people still don't believe that the crown exists, they don't believe in the vaccine, and there's simply one simple solution, which is that we all vaccinate. Instead of having over 80% vaccines today, we are struggling to cross over 54% of the people who have been vaccinated. I'm really sorry about that. I don't believe that there are still people who say that the vaccine kills, that the vaccine will cause over 60 million people, that there are Counten and many other substances or structures, I don't know what they all say, and that one France has vaccinated over 60 million people, that Germany has vaccinated more than 70% of the citizens, as well as Sweden, as well as other countries, and that today they cancel out all the measures, and that we have to introduce a curve of passes. We've got to put in a pin of the pass because we have over 7,000 patients every day, because we have over 250 people on respirators, every day over 50 people die. We have to act. If it were up to me, I'd extend the pin of the pass 24 hours a day, that all people who have the opportunity to vaccinate or test themselves daily to ensure the safety of all citizens. I invite all the people who don't believe in the vaccine, who don't believe in its effectiveness to go to the first red covid zone, to ask the doctor who comes out after 24 hours on duty and goes home to his family and his children, to ask those patients who fought for their life if the crown exists, whether the vaccine is a cure or a killer. I'm sure their answer will agree with me, which is that the vaccine exists and that the vaccine kills. The battle with the crown is very difficult, and the consequences are even more difficult, and these consequences are most often felt by young people and we will all agree that the vaccine is a cure and that we all need to be vaccinated together and that the only way out is to receive the vaccine. I've received all three doses of the vaccine as well as my colleagues and my family, and I really invite you all to help the health system in Serbia and help us finish this fight and win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10011	Thank you. The next is MP Nikola Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10012	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing a draft law amending the Republic of Serbia's 2021 budget bill. We are witnessing that GDP growth in the first quarter was 1.8%, thus domestic economy has already exceeded pre-pandemic levels in the first trimester. Good economic movements continued in the second quarter with an increase in GDP of 13.7%. GDP growth in this period was led primarily by the services sector in trade, tourism, traffic, professional and technical services. Although the service sector during the second quarter of the previous year was under the most severe influence of the pandemic, so the high growth of 15% is one part of the impact and the base effect. A significant number of service activities exceeded pre-pandemic levels. The economic activity indicator used by the finance ministry to look at the monthly dynamics continued with good developments during July and August 2021, with an increase of 8.1%, taking into account the first half of the year dynamics, according to the ministry's estimates from January to August, the growth of the economy is 7.6%. The coronary pandemic of the virus has put huge challenges ahead of economic policy in order to preserve the economic stability of jobs and standards of the population. Thanks to measures to reduce the negative effects caused by the Kovid 19 virus that the government of the Republic of Serbia brought and implemented in 2020 and during 2021, a dramatic decline in the economic activity of unemployment growth was avoided and production capacities were preserved. The responsible policy-making of the economic and good situation in the budget has made it possible for budget rebalances to create conditions for continuing financing the fight to preserve the health and life of all our citizens. In addition to the global health crisis, unemployment today stands at around 9%, while during the rule of the former regime it is. After the rule of the former regime, more specifically in 2012 it was more than 25.5%. That financial stability is also preserved is also saying that we continued to raise salaries in the middle of the global health crisis, so as citizens know, and everyone present here, that from January 1st, all health workers' salaries have been increased by 5%, while others in the public sector have been increased by 3.5% and 1.5% since 1 April. During this crisis, the state has not forgotten about the young. That is what the Government of Serbia programme – "My First Salary" for which the competition is now open, through which nearly 10,000 young people were given the opportunity to work, professional training, and all with financial compensation. Speaking of young people, I can't help but mention that today, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has become a slop between the young and the youth sectors. Today, one of the most important figures and support for young people is the Youth Office, which organizes free workshops, projects and works to perfect young people, encourage and network. Unfortunately, however, the former regime did not adequately recognise the importance of the Youth Sector as such, and so today the Youth Sector is becoming a pillar of youth, becoming a place where they spend more and more time. Today is more than ever given opportunities to young people. We can see this best in this House, today the voice of young people is most heard, today this Parliament is working for the benefit of the people, today young people have much more opportunities and strength for all and today is investing in education, is investing in health, and in the economy, in infrastructure, and in ecology, and this is the responsible policy led by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. It is a responsible policy that has saved Serbia from the ambition of collapse. I would like to point out and proudly say that the central Belgrade municipality of Old Town is once again getting its old lost glow. All that the previous government has destroyed we are trying to rebuild and improve all that. So, the municipality, headed by President Radoslav Marjanovic, has shown that it is responsible for the municipality's budget, so that the municipality has done more actions and competition than former authorities in Old Town. Stari Grad's competition, thinks of buildings where 324 residential communities will receive grants for the realisation of necessary works in their buildings, free programmes for children and the oldest, volunteer service, parking arrangements, kindergartens and so on, but I am particularly pleased that Stari Grad is the only municipality not to the territory of Belgrade that has offered professional practice to all young Belgradeers. The old town is a municipality that has the most vaccines in all its ancient structures on the territory of the city. Speaking of vaccinations, I would like to remind the public that we are almost the only country with four vaccines of different producers, Fieser, Sputnik V, Sinofarm, Astra Zenek, and from a few days ago, at all vaccine checkpoints across Serbia, citizens can choose Sputnik V vaccine that came from our Torak Institute. Serbia as one of the absolute leaders in the immunisation process shows that President Vukic's responsible policies have been implemented and that despite the global health crisis, we have managed to remain leaders. I want to thank from the bottom of my heart all the health care workers who fight every day for the preservation of our health and life, but also those who work hard and work hard in the process of immunization itself. Thank you and know that the state is always there for you. In just four months we built three of the most modern hospitals, one in Batajnica with 930 lying places, the other in Kruševec with 500 beds and the third newest in Novi Sad with over 600 beds. Serbia's health system today has more than 41,000 lying places, making it an absolute leader in the region. I want to appeal to everyone this way, but especially to young people to be vaccinated. Vaccination is the only way out of this epidemiological evil. Our youngsters may also have the greatest burden because the vaccine will not protect ourselves, but also those we love the most. I would like to point out that Kovid also leaves consequences for young people who have been treated and who are being treated today in a bunch of hospitals. Young people also have difficult clinical images and young people also end up on the respirator. Unfortunately, some have as a consequence the amputation of some part of the body. And I'm also going to ask you not to believe the stories of the anti-vaxer. Some of these same anti-vaxers have received envelopes of political fossils from the former regime to implement their agenda and continue to work against our people. In voting day, we will support these bill proposals. Thank you, Minister, who is with us today and who together with all other members of the government, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and President Aleksandar Vukic work every day in favour of Serbia and the Serbian people. The surrender was never an option. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-26-0.u10013	Thank you, Mr. Lazic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a principled, single search, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to know if they have not used their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. I am concluding a principled and unique search of the bill. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed the debate on the First Point of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under which the chairman of the National Assembly may decide that the day for voting on a bill should be immediately upon the completion of the draft law. In accordance with this provision, I hereby lay down Tuesday, October 26, 2021, with the start of at 6 p.m. as a day for voting on the First Point of the Agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Republic of Serbia's 2021 Budget Act, with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments to the Republic Fund's amending and supplementing the 2021 Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance, with a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the Republic Fund for Health Insurance for the Republic of 21st year and a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to put their identification cards in the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 182 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Before we move to a decision on the bill, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Republic of Serbia Budget Act for 2021, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Final vote: total - 182, for - 182. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I also remind you that he's a member of the 8th. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote: a total of –182, for – 181, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Republic of Serbia Budget Act for 2021, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Final vote: total – 182, for – 182. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law amending the Republic of Serbia's budget for 2021 by majority of the votes of all MPs. We now move to a decision on the proposals for decisions to give consent to the financial plans of mandatory social security organisations for 2021. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to give consent to the Amending and Supplemental Decision of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2021. I conclude the vote: total – 182, for – 181, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Republic Health Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2021. Final vote: total – 182, for – 182. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service's financial plan in 2021. Final vote: total – 182, for – 182. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. This concludes our work today. Thank you all for your participation and a significant contribution. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
