ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 111 MPs. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please ask MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic unit. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 141 MPs are present in the hall at this time, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 87(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened exclusively for Friday, so beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for legislation in a particular agenda as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the meeting of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a certain agenda contained in that request. The following is set out for the session: Dn n e c e d: Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on War Memoriales, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the field of disaster protection, Proposal for a Law confirming Decision 2014/2 amending Annex I of the Convention on cross-border effects of industrial disasters. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92 paragraphs 2 and 170 and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed that a joint, unique search be carried out on all three points of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 136, against – no one, with abstention – voted, six of the total of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the meetings are attended by Nikola Selaković, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Professor Daria Kisic-Tepavcevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Borar and Social Affairs, Aleksandar Vulin, Minister of Interior, Irena Vujović, Minister of Environment Protection, Aleksandar Dujanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment Protection, Zoran Lazic, Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, Maja Djordjevic, Deputy Minister for Labour, Employment, Borary and Social Affairs, Aleksandra Imširagić Đurić, Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection, Sanja Stamenkovic, Independent Adviser in the Sector for Environmental Management and Daniel Bjelj from the Ministry of Labour, Labour, Borary and Social Affairs. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157. Two Rules of Procedures, I'm opening a joint single search. At the same time, I welcome Mr Nikola Selakovic, the foreign minister as a representative of the promoter and invite him to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9068	Mr President, honourable vice-presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as the President of the National Assembly said in the opening session, you are now facing three draft laws, a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on War Memoriales, a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the area of disaster protection, as well as a proposal for a law on the validation of Decision 2014/2 amending Annex and the Convention on Cross-border effects of industrial accidents. I am honored today to be able to present these three proposals before you on behalf of the Serbian Government. The first among them, perhaps what brings the greatest attention to each of us, is the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on war memorials. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which today is before you, completes a legislative fine that the Republic of Serbia regulates its relations with one of the most significant economic but political forces of the EU, and certainly the most significant economic and foreign policy partner within the EU, the Federal Republic of Germany. So it's about the War Memorial Agreement, an agreement that the Federal Republic of Germany ratified back in 2019. In its opening work, as already stated, the Agreement relies on Geneva Conventions to protect victims of war, supplementary protocols and other international law standards. In addition to reaffirming in this way that we as a state are sincerely committed to the values and principles of international law, we also confirm to ourselves that as a nation we remain committed to our own ethical principles. The Serbian people who, on average, were one of Europe's most suffering nations in both world wars, long forgot tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of their faithful sons who laid their lives on the altar of the country, and many of them rest outside our country's borders, often at unsettled, abandoned or cemeteries in the disappearance. Recently, starting my official visit to Austria, on the first day of my visit, I was able to visit the upper Austria, more specifically the Linca area, the region of Austria where some 50,000 members of our people live, and the region of Austria, whose country rests over 60,000 members of our people, along with other peoples, with Italians, Russians, French. I've been able to see to it that these other nations, like the Italians and the Russians, are fostering a cult of memories of all those infernos who have lost their lives in war winds far from their hearth. Serbia today as an economic one, and I hope I am convinced, and it has a more valuable desire and a chance for this cult of memory to cherish its victims in the way other civilized peoples and states do. In that sense, this law is a very important, lacking instrument for the censusing of our victims, to shed light on the circumstances of their death and to mark their eternal resting places. I am sure that in the Federal Republic of Germany, whose territory according to our data, we will have registered 41 Serbian war memorials, you have an honest and open partner in implementing this intention. The relations between Serbia and Germany have been problematic throughout history and no one is trying to destroy or deny it. At times when we were under Ottoman occupation, Germany is whether through the Holy German-Roman Empire, whether through the Habsburg monarchy was an ally in the fight against the enemies of another faith. In modern times, however, especially in the 20th century, we were on different forces in both world wars, but these agreements do not sign with countries with which we had a tradition of constant friendly relations and peaceful co-existence. Today we are talking about an agreement that as civilized people we put an end to the hatreds of the past and we are turning in this symbolic way to future co-operation in peace with mutual respect on an equal basis. We often say that Serbs forgive, but do not forget. That's what we can say, but it's a question of how true it is, because we've been in a situation often and we forgive and forget. The sentence that we forgive and not forget is so many times spoken that it has become some kind of Serbian ethical postulate and this postulate is in some way codified in this law. Today we do not forget to have some past Germany and some past Germans responsible for the deaths of Serbian and Serbian citizens and all the damage that has been done to our country, but we are putting a clear barrier between us and the past and what Germany and the Germans are to Serbia and Serbs today, and this is to remind you, of the people and countries that are countless times, over the past decades have made sincere deviations from the imperial past in the First World War, and from what the Nazis have done in World War II. I believe it is 76 years after a time in which there are no obstacles to continue to build relationships based on co-operation and mutual understanding, mutual interests, and that this will undoubtedly contribute to the missing law that lies before you today. If we are able to make peace with states and living nations, there is no reason why we cannot make peace symbolically with the dead. Serbia is full of tombs and skeletons where our grandfathers and great-grandfathers are in an eternal resting place along with the dead enemies. As a people, we have always been able to guarantee the dead enemy the right to a dignified burial and a peaceful rest, because it is of civilization value, if I may say even older than Christianity. When you read "Iliad", a European book on books and remember Priyam, who in the tears of Achilles prays for the body of the dead son. Then you realize how high that moral pedestal is. This kind of humanity is one of the values on which our civilization rests, but we don't have to go so far into the past, that we remember the ancient world, because we have such examples in our newer culture and tradition. Rows described by Pera Todorovic, one of the best Serbian journalists in the second half of the 19th century by a volunteer daily, are not lagging behind the hexometers of "Iliad". Pera Todorovic does not regret the dead Turkish soldiers because he is gentle or moved, but because of the Serbian ethics and tradition of humanity that is deeply embedded in our national being. Recently, as I said, I visited Austria, in Upper Austria, where one of my grandfathers was buried during World War I. Let me be personal so let me say I was the first Selakovic to go to that site and to that grave. After a long search of archives and books, I was able to honor my ancestors, although it was not safe to determine where he rested. How much this agreement will help us, as well as the Germans, to find out what we didn't know, say the fact that the Publishing Undertaking in 2018 was one twelveth edition of the list of Serbian victims during the Great War which he did and organized the Serbia Army Archive and where I could only find one listed among the three of my ancestors, and in the Austrian Archives I found another who we didn't list. How many of those who have laid down their lives for Serbia to live upright, free, and self-supervisedly today? With this law, Serbia and Germany meet their civilization obligation towards the descendants of tens of thousands of those who have disappeared in war winds, and I hope that it will allow citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Germany to build a better future by fostering a memory culture. If I may observe and say something that I think is very important, the Kingdom of SHS, then the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, in the inter-war period from 1918 to 1941, paid special attention to the management of military memorial accounts on its territory regardless of whose they were. And during that period, a joint Serbian-German military cemetery was held on Ban's Hill, misnamed in Kostunica, where then German occupiers after the association of battlefields buried both our fighters and even their own monuments, but also raised it to our own. I will remind you that even at the Memorial of St. Dimitri in Lazarevec at the scene of the legendary Colubary Battle, which was built between the two wars, and which our country then made, together rests both Serbian defenders, our heroes and enemy soldiers. At the Neskovo hill site near Dimitrovgrad, Bulgarian and Serbian soldiers who died in the Serb-Bulgarian war together in 1885 rest together. There are many more places for us Serbs who are important outside Serbia, and in this particular case for the Germans who exist, who look sad, abandoned and forgotten, and which need to be restored. One of these certainly is the Smederev Military Cemetery, in Kovin, but so are many of our war memorials that disappear throughout Central Europe. I will remind you of just one of the largest Serbian sites "Indrichovice" in the Czech Republic, which contains the mention of skeletons with remains of over eight thousand of our soldiers, but at least so many of the graves that are missing in the Indrichovica forests because they did not take care of our war memorial in time. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support in the day of voting the vote of this bill, in order to close and round the circle between us and Germany once marked by conflicts, to convey mutual respect, respect and show our desire to build our relations with this great and important country in the future on just such grounds of mutual respect and respect. Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is also a bill before you today to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the area of protection against disasters which would allow the entry into force of the Agreement. The Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia is making systematic efforts to improve the work of disaster response services, by taking preventive measures to avoid an emergency situation, by easing and relieving the consequences when it comes to them, and all in order to provide additional security for our citizens, property cultural goods and the environment. The improvement and strengthening of our response to emergency situations achieves not only greater security, but also saves enormous material goods as well as ensuring continued development and progress of our country. We have witnessed that despite the measures taken to prevent accidents and unwanted situations, nature can overcome our defense levels and our efforts, and then face catastrophic floods, forest fires, earthquakes or slides. The intensity of natural disasters, and in the past, he was able to cause enormous human casualties and enormous damage. Also, the development of science, technology and industry has increased the risk of the formation of techno-hazards to which only highly trained, adequately equipped and professionally trained teams and individuals can provide the answer. In addition, the state borders that determine among other things, extending the responsibilities of emergency services in the case of one country are no obstacle to the creation or spread of disaster on neighbouring country territory, as well as other countries in the region. A set of these circumstances, the intensity of a disaster that one country cannot deal with only using its resources, the natural spread of the endangered area and the potential complexity of the threatening operation of the disaster, have long pointed to the necessity of co-operation on the plan of defence against disasters. To this end, a number of international organisations, agencies, regional initiatives have been established. Nevertheless, the resources for facing catastrophic consequences and all those that they do for health, life, security of people, property remained in the hands of each individual state and when it comes to human potential and when it comes to the necessary technique through which we react in emergency situations. With countries with which emergency agreements have been concluded, the aid procedures are precisely arranged, allowing for greater efficiency, urgency in handling both rescuers and individual experts and the assistance services provided for and mutually agreed on the functioning of this assistance. The reminders work, one of the key agreements on which the Open Balkans initiative is based, are just co-operation in the fight, but also the resolution of the consequences of emergency situations. In July and August of this year, the Republic of Serbia sent assistance to put an end to the catastrophic fires of friendly Greece, then to the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the Republic of Serbia in the form of helicopters from the interior ministry, members of the helicopter unit and members of the Emergency Sector who participated with their colleagues on the ground in fire-fighting actions, the rescue of people and property. With these actions, we have confirmed our Serbia's readiness to help its friends in need, as well as the equipment and training of members of the interior ministry to contribute to other endangered peoples besides the ceasefire on their territory. I would like to point out that during this summer's fires that occurred on our brotherly Cyprus territory, among the first, we have reported and offered assistance and co-operation to put an end to the fires and to the resolution of the consequences. The Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus have long-standing warm and friendly relations and good political co-operation based on mutual respect. The Republic of Serbia is highly esteemed and grateful for the principled position of the Republic of Cyprus in respect of the respect of our territorial integrity and sovereignty, but we have a principled, clear and unequivocal attitude when it comes to a similar problem faced by brotherly Cyprus and, equally, we strongly and in principle, support our brotherly Cyprus in preserving their territorial integrity and sovereignty. Finally, I would also like to add that it is a country which is a member of the European Union, which suggests that the Republic of Serbia is a state whose competent services are organised and equipped so that their activities are compatible with the functioning of the services of the European Union countries. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask you once again to support the draft law before you, which is ratified, or confirms the agreement on co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus in the fight against natural disasters on emergency co-operation. The honourable MPs before you today are also the draft law confirming Decision 2014/2 amending Annex 1. Conventions on cross-border effects of industrial accidents. The Convention on Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents was concluded in Helsinki on 17 March 1992, and was confirmed by the Republic of Serbia by the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents. It refers to improving industrial security, across the UNEC region, especially through the prevention of industrial accidents with cross-border consequences. It has a global character, and given its complexity for its implementation, it requires a concerted involvement of a large number of competent authorities at national level, their regional coordination with regional and local authorities, industry and the public, as well as bilateral cross-border co-operation with neighbouring countries. The main objectives of the Convention on cross-border effects of industrial accidents are the protection of people and the environment from industrial disasters, which is its first general and primary objective. Then preventing industrial accidents as much as possible, especially accidents with possible cross-border effects, then reducing the frequency and severity of such accidents and easing the effects of industrial accidents, but also encouraging active international co-operation between countries, foreign conventions before, during and after an industrial accident. The competent authorities for implementing the Convention in the Republic of Serbia are the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which is also the main institution of this job. It has a central role in it, then the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. In order to successfully implement the Convention on cross-border effects of industrial disasters, on the initiative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, an agreement has been concluded on the establishment of a common body for the implementation of the Convention on cross-border effects of industrial accidents with the task of monitoring, considering and coordinating activities related to the implementation, enforcement of the rights and obligations of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Convention on Cross-border effects of industrial accidents. The criteria for identifying dangerous activities that may cause cross-border effects under the Convention are substances and quantities listed in Annex 1 to the Convention. By introducing criteria for a globally harmonised system, classification and labelling of UN chemicals and maintaining consistency with relevant EU legislation, we have joined and join the amendments to the Annex to the 1st Convention. In accordance with Decision 2014/2, adopted by the Conference of the Parties, Annex 1 to the Convention was also amended. In view of all of the above, and in order to fulfil the obligations under the Convention, this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Decision 2014/2 amending the Annex to the 1st Convention has also been drawn up. By confirming amendments to the Annex to the 1st Convention, the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the commitment of the Republic of Serbia to improve the system, prevent industrial accidents, especially accidents with possible cross-border effects. Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe we will have a constructive debate and will support the proposed legislative solutions in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9069	Thank you, Mr. Minister, as always for an extraordinary explanation. The word is from representatives of the relevant assembly committees, first in front of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty, Ms Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9070	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty at its session discussed the draft law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on war memorials. At its session, the Committee adopted the Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement and proposed that it be adopted to the National Assembly, above all, by the policy of President Aleksandr Vukic, by the government of the Republic of Serbia that it is for the Serbian people and how important it is to preserve a culture of memory, because that people who have no memory culture has no power in the future. It is our obligation to keep from forgetting all those sites and all those places where Serbian soldiers lost their lives in wars fighting for their country and fighting for their freedom. The bones of Serb soldiers began from the Balkan wars to World War II were scattered not only in this country, but also scattered on the territory of the former republics, the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, but also scattered around many countries around the world. The bones of our fighters, our heroes, our heroes we are proud of are in 43 countries of the world at 680 different sites. I must point out that this agreement is, in fact, one definition of the government and, of course, the definition of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic to establish an even better relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany. The time has come after 76 years to list all those victims, the Serb victims who were killed in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany during the wartime events both military and civilian. Also, the Germans will be able to open a German war memorial and write down the deaths of military and civilian people during the events in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I would like to point out that this agreement is taxing all those activities that will be done, all those procedures between the Ministry of Labour, the fighting and social issues and the People's Union of the Republic of Germany for the Protection of German Cemeteries. Apart from these procedures, it is very important that information exchanges and exchanges of lists will take place between all the memorials located in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany and the data found in German casualties, located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but also how important it is to list all the names and victims who were killed in wartime events either Serbian, German, or military, or civilian persons. Here I must also stress the very important annex of the contract relating to this agreement, and that part relating to the German armed forces' death list during the wars in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that these lists will be submitted to the Ministry of Labour, Fight and Social Affairs before entering their names, and after the checkup, that check will take four months, the Ministry of Labour will submit to the People's Union and of course names on the tombstones, on the tombstones, the one where there are reserves, will be entered with mutual consent. It is our duty to keep our memory of all the victims. Serbia was on the side of anti-fascism during the two world wars, Serbia did not welcome the occupiers with flowers, some other countries in our neighbourhood did. The state fought against anti-fascism and a large number of Serb soldiers died in the struggle, but unfortunately a large number of Serb civilians. I must point out that it was more than 40 years to pass, that the arrival of the SNS was actually the first time the law was passed in 2018, the War Memorial Law concerning war memorials in the Republic of Serbia as well as abroad. What is of great importance to this law, otherwise according to this law is the confirmation of this agreement, is that a single record of all those killed and killed since the first Balkan war will be established, or since 1912. Serbia has nothing to be ashamed of. The time of silence has ended, the time of silence and overcoming that Serbs are always guilty of something. That silence was interrupted by our President Aleksandar Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, in doing so, because Serbs have nothing to be ashamed of. Serbs have famous and heroic history, Serbian soldiers have always defended their hearth and their threshold and have always been on the side of anti-fascism. I must mention that the bones of Serb soldiers, Serbian fighters, I have already said that they are scattered all over the world, but I must mention that the Serb military cemetery is also in Tunisia, 1,200 corporals of the iron regiment there forever left their lives. Of course, the Serbian military cemetery in Tunisia is located in good shape thanks to this government. It's reconstructed and restored and it's a place of destruction, but it's also a place of our memory of our glorious ancestors. Lands that forget their past and forget their ancestors have forgotten their future. We do not have the right to do so and SNS policy, the policies of Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are just going that way. I propose to the National Assembly that in the voting day we vote to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Germany on war memorials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9071	Thank you, Mrs Jefotović Vukojičić. In front of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, Committee Chairman Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9072	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Very short. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, as you know, today we are on the agenda and the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus in the area of disaster protection. At the session held today, the Defence and Home Affairs Committee unanimously decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt that agreement. The intensity of the agreement is to enable effective and timely co-operation and assistance, as well as rescue, mitigation and I would say the removal of the consequences of disasters. We are witnessing that the fires that have recently devastated the entire regions of Greece are an inevitable one that awaits us due to the phenomenon of climate change. Taking into account both the lessons and lessons given not only by the present case, we come to the conclusion that every country in the Balkans, but also beyond, must also plan to strengthen its capacity in this regard to combating natural disasters, not only to preserve itself and its citizens, but also other countries. Personally, I am very proud of the fact that just the Serbian firefighters and Serbian doctors have made a significant and noticeable contribution to the fight against the fiery verse in Greece, which we have been able to see through the means of public information, because only through mutual solidarity and action can we help each other in a fight that can happen to every country and every citizen. The members of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs certainly had in mind that environmental security in the context of climate change became a new field in which we will have to prove our organisation and ability to predict events and reduce the consequences. Also, this agreement is the basis for further deepening good and friendly relations with the Republic of Cyprus, which we are immeasurably grateful for the principled attitude, as you said, regarding the non-recognition of the false state of Kosovo. I am therefore convinced that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, too, will have the understanding of the arguments presented and that in the day of the vote you will support the proposed agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9073	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. In front of the Environment Protection Committee, Mr. Ljubinko Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9074	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, Professor Orlic. Dear Minister Selaković, who you really presented this law on which I will speak, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, held on 9 September, discussed the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Decision 2014/2 amending Annex 1 of the Convention on Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents. This bill was presented in detail to the Committee by Ms. Aleksandra Imširagić Đuric, Assistant Minister of Environmental Protection, yesterday and we discussed it in detail. The Convention on Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents was concluded in Helsinki in 1992, and confirmed by the Republic of Serbia by the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents in 2009. Yesterday we heard the basic objectives of this law and I will not repeat them. By Decision 2014/2 adopted by the Conference of the Parties in Geneva 2014, Annex 1 to the Convention defining dangerous substances has been amended. Amendments have been made for the purpose of updating the category of substances and their limit quantities, with a view to introducing criteria for a global harmonised system of classification and labelling of chemicals. In order to prevent industrial accidents that may have cross-border effects, the parties have committed themselves to taking measures to identify dangerous activities on their territory. The implementation of Decision 2014/2 amending Annex 1 to the Convention on cross-border effects of industrial disasters does not create financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia, so there is no need to provide additional resources in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In line with the above, the Committee on Environmental Protection has decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt the draft Act on Confirmation of Decision 2014/2 amending Annex 1 to the Convention on the Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9075	I also thank the chairman of the Environmental Protection Committee. We are moving on to the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups. In front of the MP group Justice and Reconciliation Party - United Peasant Party Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9076	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, chaired by the other vice-presidents, respected ministers and other representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, are before us three very important agreements that we will treat today and which we should certainly give full support to. I will pay particular attention to the first agreement, which is the War Memorial Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany. At first glance, this agreement seems to be one of the agreements that regulates an important field. However, if we take a closer look at what this agreement means, of course, including the very detailed and essential arguments we have heard, this agreement is much more than a simple technical legal agreement that is normally signed among countries. Because this agreement shows the capacity of this country, the country's commitment to a policy that contains determination, the courage to deal with issues that are from the past, which are not always sweet, which have both themselves and the elements of bitterness, acidity and that any authority that would look at only some narrow personal interest would bypass and leave, as many previous authorities have left it. Because it's always easier, more profitable, more luxuriant to deal with those issues that can't or won't cause certain emotions. When it comes to an agreement with Germany, of course it has many elements, even more elements, that's why it's being brought, that's why it's being signed, and that's why we're treating it today, essentially, in fact, it means dealing with the past to stabilize the foundations and the basis for the future. So that's what I consider the basis of the intensification of this agreement from the position of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, when it comes to topics from the past, they can always be seen from many sides. We can view them emotionally and that's some, let's say, the lowest, least-quality way of looking at it, because every time you let your emotions out, then you're going to find a lot of reasons and a lot of elements to be against something, because emotions are always something that makes you think, doesn't allow the mind to judge and reason correctly. We know how attitudes based on emotion are always formed. When it comes to the past, in general, history, your history is like one big warehouse full of everything and there you'll always find everything you want. If you want to find arguments and grounds for friendship, to build friendship with some country and some people, you will find it, if you want to find elements and arguments for antagonism and hostility, and you will find that, especially when it comes to peoples who are either in our vicinity or have particularly had certain occupation colonial and similar aspirations and actions. It's just a matter of approach. I'm glad we had an objective insight into where we've noted and noticed both the bitter and those elements that aren't, and the basics, or the information that tells us certain historical alliances and the other ones that are not so pleasant, but here is just a question of what our goal is, what our motive is. If we want small day-to-day policy points, it's always the hostile attitude that's the easiest to formulate, which is the simplest thing to present and which, I say, is the best thing to do and the easiest thing to notice. However, he is usually least smart, especially in the long term and least useful. Of course, it's a government that doesn't just want to score day-to-day political points, but wants to do something more for the citizens, or the people, for their country, that, if anything, at least a kilo or a bag or some bag from the past that we have on our shoulders to take it off. Why would they wear it? Because everything we don't have to wear on our weary shoulders better not to wear it and better to unload it, because with less weight on our backs, it's much easier to step firmly towards the future in each field and in the field of development, economic, cultural and each other's but also very important in the field of building and preserving friendly relations with everyone, especially those who are important factors in the international community. The issue of hostilities and alliances throughout history, as you know, is not a black and white question. So they don't exist in politics, and that means political relations, and that means the same thing in international relations, there are no more friends and more enemies. Only those who do not understand politics do not understand international relations, nature, background, the basis and essence of these relationships will believe that there are lasting friends and lasting enemies. Also, even in these friendships and hostilities, there is no basis, one background, or one motive in building these relationships. They used to be more noticeable to you, to say, the cultural spiritual, religious basis, today they're more present in someone, to say, a rhetorical category when there's a position to strengthen or to explain a position or even more to recruit people or nations for something or against something. Always spirituality and faith are close, they live in the soul, and emotion also resides in the soul, and so faith is often reached when emotions are to be recruited, because it is most effective. Well, there have often been numerous wars and numerous conflicts that occurred both in our environment and in the wider light of religious labels. Religious wars have long ended, at least in our environment or in the North Pole. Faith here is a sacrifice and a means, a means and a sacrifice most often and the motives of wars, conflicts are always others, most often banal and they are always what is more important to a man than they are to an animal. So it's always some kind of greed, grampity, either for territory, or for robbery, or for some other banal, material interest. All other major declarations, especially when it comes to religion, are mostly part of a play that needs either to be justified or explained, but most often recruit supporters to explain these motives, i.e. the goals, or to get support for them. True, through further history, there was more of a religious motive, but not always, and very often, other motives intertwined. For example, a very small number of audiences are known for example that the first breakthrough of the Seljuks or, as it is said here, the Turkish tribes, although I suggest that the notion of the Turks and the Turkish, the term of the late 19th century, so that it should be less used in the context of the Ottoman Empire and all that was done by the Ottoman State because in the Ottoman Empire and its mechanisms, the Serbs, and the Bosniaks, and the Dahemians, and these, and these, and the lambs, so it's a very complex story like any imperial story, but it's a story for another occasion. What I want to highlight is simply as an example, it is a little known, and truth be told, that the first breakthroughs of the Seljuk Turkish tribes in Anatolia were actually at the invitation of the Byzantine emperor. So he called them, asked them to possess Anatolia because he could no longer endure the raids, robberies, and mass executions carried out by the crusades, through the crusades. So he no longer had a way to protect himself, and then he sent a request to the Seljucian rulers and commanders to come and possess Asia Minor, or Anatolia, in order to build in some way a barrier for the crusaders coming from the West, because a small number is probably once again familiar with another piece of information. So during the first crusade, Carigrad, or Constantinople, today, Istanbul had about 950,000 inhabitants. During the last crusade, Constantinople, Carigrad, or Istanbul today fell to 50,000 inhabitants. So this is the data that best tells you about what kind of relationship it is and what the consequences of these crusades are, because they've had Carigrad halfway, the best station to power their needs, or to supply with everything they needed, and certainly it was violent. So we have one, maybe that moment was the biggest city in the world. Constantinople was the largest city in the world at the time, and probably since then, the concept has been decimated. So he's nearly ten times reduced by the population. At that time the Byzantine emperor and actually no longer had the mechanism to defend himself and he called on the Seljuk Turks to possess. True, he didn't plan to let them go this far, I tell you right now, and he thought they'd stay here somewhere to be barricaded to the crusaders, especially he didn't think they'd attack Constantinople himself, but that's a matter of other circumstances. So these are the things they show, the truth, perhaps from, let me say for the sake of the public, so perhaps the only one who has benefited from all that the crusaders have done in Istanbul, or Cariglade, is the Balkans, because in fact a huge number of especially members of the Constantinople elite have defected to the Balkans and even there may be a need to look for the basic cultural, professional, economic, actually potentials of Dušan's empire. Well, let me just share that information with you. One empire, such as Dushanov, could not have been created only by force and by the military. Always, every advance requires intelligence, it takes brains, it needs elites, it needs cultural potential. The great brains that escaped from Constantinople came to the Balkans and were exploited by Emperor Dusan and thus built his elite, his team, his team, and that is what Dusan's empire is about. That's another topic again. So I'm telling you how religiously, politically, interestingly, it's intertwined in all sorts of ways. And sometimes it's a purpose, sometimes it's a means, but what we can conclude throughout history as a lesson is that those peoples who have managed to view their past properly, objectively to a possible extent, learn a great lesson and use those parts that serve the future. They're smart people and they're smart countries. That's what I see in this agreement now, and that's why I've given him this much attention, which is why I find him very important. What needs to be done is to continue, to have strength. Here's one aspect of the piety to the victims. But here the key is the ability to show the power to overcome obstacles from the past, to move on. Of course, you should never forget either the victims, or the violence, or the injustice that someone has done to you, but do not hold it as a certain potential for the future. That's why we have to choose things. For example, if you're already making friends, here's not just friendship with Germany. I also talked about my fascination with the friendship that was made with Turkey at the beginning of the week and said how important it is to get Turkey on its side, how important it is for a great ruler like Recep Tayyip Erdogan to be a friend of this country and not to be the enemy of this country. So it's two effects, it's not just one. It's all very big stuff and it's something important. I would also suggest that various structures in the state follow the policy of the president himself and the very top of the country, because we sometimes have a gap here. I recently received an invitation to attend an anniversary, now I don't remember what's concrete, something about the liberation of the Turks. I said it from the Turks, but it's from someone else, but it's from the Turks. One concept I noticed says – during slavery, etc. There's no reason. If it was slavery, it was also slavery from the Turks, or Ottomans, it was slavery from the Romans, but I didn't notice that anyone ever used the concept here during slavery under the Romans, but we're racing where any emperor was born, so whether ours or theirs, etc. So we have one different emotional and termological approach. It's not a problem. I don't mind. I'm just saying, maybe somebody else will get in the way. It's a past that has a solid distance, even a much greater distance than it does now with the Germans, and here I am showing that capacity. So the words are those that reflect the definition. It is therefore necessary to monitor what is the determination of the state's summit in terms of building relations. It's like family to you. Can't the head of a family, father and mother, make good neighbourly relations, and the child goes and breaks their window. I mean, it can't, it just can't happen once there's a kid that's been naughty, but if he walks around being a kid, it's gonna turn out like it's not exactly the family's intention to build such good relationships. Of course, here is a very important element of the diaspora, which is also mentioned. I just want to underline that those who make a decision at the state level in all segments, I am glad that the foreign minister is here today, because within his ministry is also the Diaspora Authority, a very important institution. The other day, someone here said there were about 230,000 Serbs in Germany, so he said, I was not sure if it was all Serbs from the German region or whether they were referring to Serbian citizens in Germany. What is important to me, of course, is that I care about all citizens of Serbia, but I want to draw attention to that same Germany as 40% of Bosniaks from Serbia, primarily from the Sandzak area. The level of this is 5, 6 or 7% of the other national minorities. It is one huge number of citizens who, by law, by the Constitution of this country, are both the right and obligations of this country. I would therefore ask Mr. Minister to update certain appointment arrangements for one of the representatives of the national minorities at the Diaspora Administration, because this is very important. It is very important that we have a line that does not care for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who live outside the Republic of Serbia, and are not ethnic Serbs, in fact, must not be sent a message that they are second-rate, that the state does not care about them, that this is not their country of origin, but rather we must show the capacity to act together in those things that are common, and those issues that are religiously-cultural, narrowly ethnically and culturally, can also be possible for them to act and that the rights and Serbs in the diaspora and the Bosniaks in the diaspora and others in the diaspora are regulated through the competent administration as guaranteed by the laws of this country and the Constitution of this country. I expect that we will cooperate in this field and thank everyone for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9077	I thank the esteemed vice president and academicist Zukorlic. Next on the list is deputy president of the JS Parliament Club, Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9078	Dear Chairman Selakovic and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing three draft laws confirming bilateral agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on war memorials and between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the area of disaster protection and, of course, confirming Decision 2014/2 amending Annex 1. Conventions on cross-border effects of industrial accidents. I have repeatedly stressed on such and similar agreements that each such agreement is a small step in developing Serbia's bilateral relations with other countries, and that each of these agreements is a small step in bringing Serbia closer to the world and the world to Serbia. Indeed, today Serbia is the world. Serbia is falling behind less and more and more competing with the world and with the most developed parts and countries of the world. Serbia is respected today, Serbia is respected today, Serbia is seen as a credible partner, not as a "damn avalanche". That is the case, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Monday (September 13th), and she chose to visit Serbia and Belgrade for one of her latest interstate visits and activities. We know that strong and strong countries like Germany, and great statesmen like Angela Merkel, take care of both the smallest details and those informal messages and signals they send. Certainly, what is its last, to say interstate activity, is just visiting Serbia, is an informal signal and a message to its successors in Germany, and we know that in large and developed world states, personal change does not cause significant changes in the strategic policy of these countries, but is also one signal and messages to other EU countries, that Serbia is a credible and important factor in the stability of the economic and all-way development of the Western Balkans region. Hence, and in that light, we of JS, observe this agreement with Germany on war memorials. It has not, and we know it well, Serbia has often been on the same side in history, with Germany. On the contrary, in key and historic moments, we were on opposite sides and Serbia can be proud of its history. But they weren't on the same sides, in history always Germany and France, but they managed to leave behind the Verden battle, form an alliance, create the EU, and become close associates and good neighbours. You know, history needs to be known. History needs to teach lessons. But history does not create life, but life creates history. Today in the era of globalisation, the economic domination of large multinational companies, the fundamental foundation of the stable economy of each country is a responsible policy of co-operation and reconciliation, not a policy of division and conflict. Such an international policy of co-operation and reconciliation, Serbia has been leading, here, for the past 10 years, and this is a responsible foreign policy, a policy of mutual respect and respect, co-operation, a policy that finds common interests, which overcomes differences. We know that Germany, for example, will never change its position on the independence of the fake state of Kosovo. But Germany also knows very well that Serbia will never change its view that Kosovo is an integral and inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia. But both Serbia and Germany are aware that there are many areas where we can co-operate on the welfare of both sides, in the mutual interest, above all in the area of the economy. Today in Serbia, about 70,000 of our citizens are working in German companies, and we must not forget the 450-4600,000 of our citizens working in the Federal Republic of Germany. Germany is our foreign trade partner number one. Of the 40 billion euros in external trade that the Republic of Serbia has with the world, 5.2 billion is the mutual trade exchange between Serbia and Germany, 3.1 billion euros goes to imports from Germany and 2.1 billion is Serbia's exports to Germany. Germany mainly imports electricity, machines, chemical products, food, textiles, clothing, vehicles and parts, raw materials, metal products, coloured metals, rubber products. German exports to Serbia machinery, chemical products, motor vehicles and parts, electrical engineering, colored metals, other vehicles, etc. According to Frank Aleter, director of the German-Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Serbia has become increasingly interesting for German investors, and lately especially in the IT sector and the environmental sector, precisely in those economic branches that fall within the high-tech branches of the economy, where the most professional and most paid workforce is sought. According to Aleter, Serbia is attractive to German investors because of attractive funding programmes, due to good infrastructure, for the sake of legal certainty, good and qualified labour force, but I would add - also because of political stability and health security. All these are also arguments why JS will support co-operation with all countries, especially with the EU's most developed country, with Germany. The JS parliamentary group will also support the agreement, as the JS wants Serbia to become economically stronger, thus making it more politically independent and more perspective. It's like I said because Serbia is leading a policy of co-operation and reconciliation. That is also the policy approach of the "Open Balkans" initiative, which is nothing more than a co-operation initiative between countries in the region. It is an initiative that will open the borders of countries to economic, cultural, sports and any other kind of co-operation. It is an initiative of reconciliation and stability in the region. Of course, such an initiative does not suit all, as does strong and strong Serbia. It doesn't match any of the people in the region, and it doesn't answer to everyone in the world. That is why the Bosniak part of the BiH government, the government in Croatia, and even part of the government in Montenegro, is based on dissipating hatred, fighting and conflict, opening unhealed wounds from the past, because how else do they justify their own ignorance, impotence and lack of results? Certainly, he will not admit his guilt for the poor economic situation, for the poverty and imperceptibility of his own people. Of course, it is easier for them to pass their own guilt on to Serbia, while digging through unhealed wounds and running a policy on the principle that the neighbor dies a cow. If we're used to it from Bakir, from Djaferovic, Milanovic, Plenkovic, and also Milo Djukanovic, we somehow didn't expect Milo Djukanovic to be the barrister of the Serbian hijke. Unfortunately, his political vision of Montenegro today can only be called in one word - anti-Serbia. Milo Djukanovic has downgraded his policy that Montenegro must be anti-Serbian, that the Serbian people in Montenegro and the Serbian Orthodox Church must disappear from Montenegro or, at the very least, put yellow ribbons on them. I ask the question not to Milo Djukanovic but to the people of Montenegro, because Milo Djukanovic knows the answer well - will hate policy towards Serbia and everything prefix Serbianly raise the standard of living for the citizens of Montenegro? Will hate policy against Serbia and everything it has prefix Serbianly fill accommodation tourist facilities in Montenegro? Will such a policy lead to an increase in trade exchange and the strengthening of Montenegro's economy? Will such a policy bring and contribute to peace and stability in the region? Of course not. Two things are behind such a policy by Milo Djukanovic. First, the concealment of its own political failures by seeking guilt in the second one, in this case in Serbia, and in order to re-establish an absolute power that has been seriously rocked in previous elections. Another reason is to carry out external tasks in order to put enough pressure on Serbia and its state-level summit to achieve its geopolitical goals by weakening Serbia, primarily the creation of an independent state of Kosovo. All mentioned above, which I mentioned earlier, know that peace and co-operation policy is a better policy and a better choice for both their countries and their citizens. They know the Open Balkans initiative is good for both their countries and their citizens as well. Then why are they refusing such an initiative? Because they know that in this case the citizens of their countries would quickly see all the senselessness and destruction of their current wrong policies and would for that reason quickly remove them from power. The second reason is that they are doing this because their mentors on the outside "Open Balkans" have a problem with achieving their geopolitical and strategic goals, because it is an initiative that stabilises the region and certainly a stable Balkans to some. How else do you explain the fact that Viktor Orban openly says that the EU needs Serbia more than Serbia the EU, and that Bakir and Jaferovic and Milanovic and Djukanovic and everyone else speak the ugliest things about Serbia, on the other hand? The other day in the Croatian media, we could see that Serbs even compare with dogs. Unfortunately, they are joined in Serbia by individual political marginals, but also by financial powers such as Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic. They're just like Mil Bakir and the others, even worse than them mudring Serbia wherever they come and wherever they come. It is a wrong political perception that they base their policies on hatred for Aleksandar Vukic, Dacic, Palmi and others in power, they know that behind Vukic, Dacic, Palma and all others are Serbian citizens and their voices and they know why they hate citizens of Serbia and Serbia, because it is the citizens of Serbia and Serbia who rejected these political marginalists and financial powers. It is the citizens of Serbia who have made it clear and today say - we will not and do not want you, we want strong and strong Serbia. Citizens said – we do not want Gilasov and Vučić's Serbia, we lived in such a Serbia and it did not happen again. Citizens said -- we don't want hate, fight, robbery privatisation, Serbia's sale, we want a strong, strong, respected Serbia, Serbia in which every Serbian citizen can find its perspective. What are they offering Serbian citizens anyway? Could you, fellow MPs, have heard from them any meaningful programs or ideas? Could you see a hint of concern for the construction of Serbia in their performances? No, of course not. All you could hear was hate, lies, and all you could see on your faces was evil. You can only see concern when it comes to protecting your own capital acquired at a time when they were burning and burning on Serbia's political scene. We are witnessing the daily most brutal insults, lies addressed to the president of Serbia and his family. After all, both JS and Dragan Markovic Palm have felt on our skin what it means to be the target of their lies, and they do not care what we have proven that everything they have said is a lie. They move on, they come up with new and more brutal lies. Tom, of course, there's no end. You know, when someone's always lying, when they get caught many times in a lie, nobody trusts him anymore. It is Gilasu, Jeremic, their mercenaries, Marinika Tepic, Sandi Raskovic Ivić, who no longer believes. They remain to drown in their own lies, and we will continue to work and build Serbia that will be proud of future generations. When it comes to an agreement with Cyprus on co-operation in the area of disaster protection, of course we will support this agreement. In the case of Greece recently, Serbia has shown how organized and ready it is, on the one hand, and how solid it is with its friends, on the other hand. Ten days ago, with a delegation of 992 farmers led by Dragan Markovic Palm, I stayed in Greece, in Paralia, and there was no Greek, and thank God, I have many friends among the Greeks, there was no Greek who did not say – thank Serbia and Serbian firefighters, who showed no admiration for our heroes, who showed their knowledge, skills and courage in the fight against fire and the rescue of material goods and human lives in our friendly country. Right then, I was very proud of my country, of our citizens, of those firemen heroes, and I wouldn't change that feeling for anything in the world. So, co-operation, co-operation and co-operation with everyone who respects us, who is well-intentioned, but co-operation and reconciliation and with those with whom we don't always understand each other very well. We must continue to find common interests, we must continue to overcome differences. It's a formula we've been applying, it's a formula that we're going to continue to apply for a better future for Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9079	Thank you. The next is MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9080	The Honorable Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9081	I'm sorry, there's obviously been some kind of mistake here. The next is on the list, in fact, Daniela Veljovic. My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9082	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, the first agreement I will talk about is an agreement with Cyprus on co-operation in the area of disaster protection. Natural disasters, natural disasters, are one of the greatest and most effective threats to human security. It is evident that since the second half of the 20th century, the number of natural disasters has increased significantly. It is therefore necessary to act proactively to prevent natural disasters that will endanger the survival of future generations. As the problem of natural disasters is fundamentally a global problem, a solution to it can only be found globally and through the development of international co-operation. An example of this is Serbia's membership in the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, based on which Serbia has access to training to raise the capacity of units in charge of providing assistance in affected areas. It is necessary, of course, to develop regional co-operation. A large number of disasters that could affect Serbia, especially in the event of floods, are regional character. Experiences in such cases, such as the 2014 flood, have shown the importance of regional co-operation and have indicated successful co-operation in rescue and protection. The agreement signed by the Government with the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the area of disaster protection should, above all, be seen in the context of international co-operation in the area of prevention and mitigation of the consequences of natural disasters, but also technical and technological major accidents, which significantly threaten security, lives, cultural and material goods, which cannot be prevented by regular work of competent services, i.e. it is not possible to remove and mitigate the consequences. This Agreement will allow the exchange of critical information on hazards to enable the early warning system to operate effectively, but also to implement mitigation, protection and resolution measures in an effective manner. In disaster, one of the most significant factors in a successful response is speed. In cases of international and cross-border co-operation, there are obviously additional barriers to entry, exit, import of necessary materials and equipment. This agreement will also enable a simpler process of temporary importing the necessary materials of rescue equipment and states of signatories to simplify the procedure in the future to make the operation more successful. As noted, although this is only one such agreement, the real importance of a joint fight agreement and international co-operation in the area of disaster risk reduction is increasing with the number of countries with which we have this type of co-operation. Serbia today has similar agreements with countries of the region -- BiH, Montenegro, Bulgaria, but also with geographically remote countries that are still active in support of disasters, such as the Russian Federation. Recently, we had, unfortunately, a significant and tragic example of this kind of international co-operation when we witnessed huge fires affecting Greece and Turkey, where many countries, including our own, helped affected areas through the donations of rescue teams, specialized equipment and humanitarian aid. Catastrophes do not know the limits, and in a period of more extreme weather disasters, reinforced by climate change, but also other disasters that pose a threat to human lives, health and safety and the environment, material goods, and even the economy, it is necessary that our answers do not also know the limits. Therefore, it should not surprise the high level of UN engagement, but also specialised agencies in the area of risk mitigation and disaster mitigation. This is clearly indicated by the numerous UN General Assembly resolutions, the Economic and Social Council and the UN Security Council. It is particularly worth mentioning that because of the great impact of human activity on nature, many natural disasters often have a causal-consequential connection to human activity. We are witnessing that even the most developed countries are often unable to cope independently with disasters without international assistance and despite such bilateral agreements, it is necessary to develop co-operation through UN systems and other international organisations, which, through their work, guidance, guidelines and conventions, provide the necessary experience and examples of good practice, important in the creation of policies aimed at prevention and preparation. Also, through UN and specialised agencies, as well as regional and national bodies, universal models of behaviour and response are being created in such emergency situations. This type of creation of universal models allows for simpler international responses due to the high compatibility of the mechanisms for state reactions that follow these guidelines. Cross-border solidarity is necessary in response to natural and other disasters. The creation of a legal framework that will allow solidarity to be implemented in a more effective way is the obligation of all authorities in the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the MPs in the National Assembly. The following is the proposal for a law confirming the decisions to amend Annex 1. Conventions on cross-border effects of industrial accidents. The importance of cross-border security co-operation also confirms the draft law. Modern industry and modern technological processes often require, as their raw materials, materials that pose environmental hazards or have them as a product or as waste generated during the production process. This Convention obliges all countries to take measures to prevent industrial accidents and to improve active international co-operation among interested countries before, during and after the accident. This would strengthen appropriate policies and strengthen and coordinate action at all relevant levels to improve prevention, preparedness and response in the event of cross-border effects of industrial accidents. Also, since having the right information is necessary for the development of timely state response mechanisms, signatories are obliged to identify all dangerous activities within their jurisdiction and to ensure that the affected parties are informed of any such proposed or existing activity in their country, ensuring that neighbouring countries have information about potential accidents and their negative consequences and that they can prepare themselves in the event of an accident. These changes are specifically related to the amendments to Annex 1, which relate to the definition of dangerous substances for the purpose of defining dangerous activities. Changes are necessary because of the need to update the categories of substances and mixtures and border quantities with a view to harmonising with the globally harmonised system of classification and labelling of UN chemicals and with EU legislation. By accepting this annex, Serbia reaffirms its commitment to preserving the safety of the environment through broad co-operation within the international community, stressing the principles of international law, principles of good neighbourly relations, reciprocity, not discrimination and goodwill. The last of the agreements, which today is on the agenda and which we are adopting today, is the War Memorial Agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany. Dignified retirement and marking memories of civilians and military persons who suffered from the war and during the war is one of the obligations Serbia and Germany make as signatories of the Geneva Convention. This agreement will allow sites where Serbian, or Yugoslav victims, civilians and military persons are buried, in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany, including the existing cemetery and those to be arranged, as well as all monuments, memorial objects that testify to war events, to be protected and to be given access, and above all, the permanent right of rest of the victims will be provided. This is a significant agreement, because it sends a message that it is very important to cultivate a culture of memory, respect for all the victims of war, which unfortunately was too much. It is important to cultivate and lead a policy of peace, which is always facing the future. Respect for history, culture, customs, respect for the air we breathe, the water we drink, the land we live in is patriotism, the one that our descendants need to learn about, because in order for others to respect us, we first need to respect, protect and cherish our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9083	Thank you. The next is the vice-president of the National Assembly, Mr. Stefan Krkobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9084	Thank you, Vice President Hardisic. Dear People's MPs, dear Minister Selakovic, first of all, I would like to say that it is a great pleasure for us to have you here today. I think that's what you felt here for the applause that you got from all the MPs, which is not random. This shows that your work is both serious and thorough and methodical. What I'd like to say today is about the agreements ahead of us. These are agreements with the Republic of Cyprus and the Federal Republic of Germany. Cyprus is one of five EU member states that is not and will not recognise Kosovo's self-proclaimed independence, and the other agreement that we confirm today in the National Assembly is an agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany, our largest economic partner and the EU's most influential country, whose membership is also sought by the Republic of Serbia. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the area of disaster protection regulates the frameworks for co-operation, prevention and mitigation of the consequences of disasters and preparedness for disasters, and on voluntary provision of mutual assistance in the case of disasters on the territory of one or another state, as well as other forms of mutual co-operation. This agreement, which is important to emphasise, respects the UN's efforts and international acts in the area of disaster prevention and disaster mitigation, as well as the EU Civil Protection Mechanism and their contribution to the development of capacity for rapid and effective response to the consequences of disasters. The agreement, among other things, covers assistance and disaster rescue, whether it is a matter of natural disasters or technical and technological disasters, whose consequences threaten the safety, life and health of a larger number of people. Of course, material and cultural goods, but the environment in greater scope of protection and rescue, as well as the mitigation and elimination of their consequences, mutual information on the risks of disasters and their consequences. This includes, of course, data exchange, information on dangers, but also scientific and technical knowledge transfer and expertise in the area of disaster protection, education and training of employees involved in protection and rescue activities, development and production of equipment for protection and rescue, as well as improving co-operation between national authorities and government authorities and organisations that participate in the protection of disasters. Cyprus is an EU member, but is not a NATO pact member, and Serbia, as you know, is a military neutral country that also seeks to join the EU. There's one more thing to point out here. In Nis, almost a decade ago, the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre has been acting as a regional centre for Serbia's IDP emergency situations and at the invitation of any interested country in this part of Europe ready to help prevent and mitigate the effects of floods, fires and other disasters, and have already been extinguished from the centre, at the invitation of these countries, by fires in Northern Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. All this opens up additional opportunities to help in those unsolicited moments when speed and efficiency are in action to save life and death. As regards the second agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany, we from the PUPS, a party that heritage rich and free and anti-fascist tradition of our people, are particularly pleased and proud that the law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on war memorials in the future in a civilized and responsible way towards the shadows of our ancestors will be treated by our war memorials in the territory of Germany. It is the duty of this generation to all generations of our heroic ancestors who sacrificed their lives for the freedom of us, their descendants. At the same time, it is on the other side and a major civilizational step when it comes to respecting our war enemies whose bones remained scattered on the territory of today's Republic of Serbia, because Serbian citizens have always treated their dead enemies in both world wars with respect. The additional satisfaction comes to us with the fact that we ratify this agreement just before German Chancellor Angela Merkel and EU President, who comes from Germany, Ursula von Lian, will certainly give a new impulse and new contents to the ever-increasing and comprehensive co-operation of our country with Germany, which is our largest foreign trade partner, but also our growing political backdrop on the political scene. The aim of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on War Memorial is to allow for a decent retirement and the occupancy of memories of military and civilian war victims, who died or died due to wars, as well as the preservation of the place where they were buried, and all in accordance with the Geneva Convention on the Protection of Victims of War of 1949. Additional protocols under the 1977 Geneva Convention, as well as other standards of applicable international humanitarian law. Serbian, German war memorials are places where Serbian, Yugoslav, German military faces and civilian war victims who died or died during or following wars including individual and common graves. An existing cemetery and cemetery that will later be arranged or plots in the cemetery, which testify to war events on our territory and in the German state. Editing, marking and maintaining war memorials, as well as sharing information about these places and about the personal data of the victims in order to try to identify them will be common, human, but also the Christian obligation of our two countries and two peoples. Serbia and Germany will provide each one in their territory with protection of war memorials and access to them, as well as the permanent right to rest the victims in the war, and the German government will, at its expense, ensure the maintenance and care of Serbian memorials. It is important to point out that the two agreed parties will show the pitet against all the victims, so that if those war memorials besides the German or Serbian graves killed in the war are also the graves of those killed in the war from other countries, they will be maintained in an appropriate manner. The Serbian people have always been able to rise above their tragic fate. Thus, immediately after the terrible genocide that the Nembudsmen and the old men of the Sword experienced at the beginning of World War I in the village of Dublje near Bogatic, the temple of the Vazzenje of Christ was erected in which several hundred dead Serbian and Austrian soldiers of German, Czech and Croatian origin were put together in the crypt, and the plaque reads: “The memory of the skeletons of those who perished as enemies in wars, and death reconciled them. "As you know, German military leader Feldmarshal von Macenzen ordered that in 1915, a monument to Serb heroes be erected in a battle with the German Imperial Army, as part of a German military cemetery. In addition to such a show of respect for the war enemy, there are still many examples of the collective burial of our and German fallen soldiers in the First, including World War II, such as many cemeterys and graves of the dead German soldiers from both world wars who died here in war in Serbia, far from their homeland, the long-forgotten German military cemetery in Smederev was buried near 5,000 soldiers, in the vast majority of the Germans in the First, but also in World War II. There are German military cemeterys in Belgrade, Nis, Pancheva and so on. Most of them have buried Serbs, and every deceased deserves to be at least known to his grave. There are many cemeteries and graves, both Germans and Germans, who lived in the areas of Serbia and the former Yugoslavia until the end of World War II. Many of their last resting places have grown into weeds and oblivion. It is our joint duty, both Serbs and Germans, to honorably mark these marbles. And how many tens and hundreds of thousands, many, many Serbs have left their bones or ended up in German camps and torture camps, something in today's Germany, but even more so in the German occupation zones around Europe, the obligations of our German partners to mark the graves of those victims in a decent and dignified way, but this is even more obligations for us from Serbia, and now we have a legal basis to do so everywhere where this earth's dust of our dead ancestors is planted for us, generations for whose future and freedom they have laid down their lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9085	Thank you, Mr. Krkobic. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9086	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, respected ministry representatives, so a set of international agreements, I would say important for the development of Serbia's bilateral relations with other countries, but also for the international obligations arising from membership in the UN. The first agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on war memorials, the second Agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on disaster co-operation, and the third point concerns the confirmation of Decision 2014/2 amending Annex I of the Convention on cross-border effects of industrial accidents. When it comes to the Agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany on War Memorials, which were recently discussed by counterpart Krkobibic, who signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, then Minister of Labour, Employment and Combat Affairs Zoran Djordjevic, the MP group of the SPS considers this to be a contribution, above all, to the understanding of the diversity of the historical positions of our two countries, especially in the last century, which was burdened by wars. In doing so, the SPS does not change its relationship with the past and everything that happened between our countries in the 20th century, which is the First and Second World War, NATO aggression in 1999. After all, this relationship cannot be changed because historical facts are unquestionable and unchangeable. The revision of history here is not really a topic. On the other hand, this agreement is the result of the two countries' agreement on respect for the dead on both sides and on the need to bury the dead and the memorials raised by civil and military victims of wars with dignity, above all, marked and decent, above all, maintained. The attitude towards the dead in the wars is civilizational fluid and a kind of obligation arising from the Geneva Convention, as a colleague said just a moment ago. Unfortunately, the wars were many, the victims were many, and the cemetery of Serbian victims for freedom and liberation from the past centuries could be called, as in the lyrics of the famous song, the gardens of colour because the bravest and best Serbs fell for freedom, unfortunately. This agreement represents a legal framework that gives the Republic of Serbia the opportunity to honour, above all, the graves and tombs of our victims in concentration camps during World War II, and among the victims were members of the Yugoslav army in the country and members of the Partizan movement, but unfortunately innocent civilians who were deported from Serbia to these concentration camps. The agreement envisions the arrangement, maintenance and state care of war memorials, which testify to war events during wars on the territory of the two countries, signatories of the agreement. Each party takes care of memorials, graves, and tombs in its territory through its competent authorities. Also, each party maintains and cherishes its memorials on the territory of another country. The agreement is also a legal basis for the exchange of information and updating of all records of the deceased, which is a significant possibility for the Republic of Serbia to look without any obstacles at the state of the cemetery and mass grave where victims of notorious concentration camps are buried, but also to establish precise data on its victims. The Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany have been significant over the previous years, I would say, overcame historical impatience, which confirms a large number of co-operation agreements in different areas of life, as well as active investment, primarily credit policy. It is precisely thanks to the maturing of political relations and policies of understanding and tolerance, despite the different views of our two countries on many issues, Serbia and Germany today, I would say, are working successfully on the political but also on the economic agenda. I think that somewhere around, just over 70,000 Serbian citizens are working in companies that have just opened German companies in Serbia, which is in favour of this finding. You know, Mr. Minister, the past must not stand in the way of progress, but we must also not let it be forgotten, which we certainly won't. Serbia preserves the culture of memory, is proud of its past and thanks to all who have contributed to freedom and peace, but the past and the past are not living, the past and the past are learning lessons, the affirmation of what is good, and what is far more important is that we look at the present and build the foundations of a new future that, above all, will provide a better life for our citizens and a better standard of living for our citizens. The past must not be our only present and the past must not be our only future. We need to build relationships and cooperate. Today, when the politically stable and economically strong country of Serbia can be a respected and respected talker of major and powerful states. Such a policy that comes from the fact that we cannot change history, but that is why we can influence Serbia's future today is building its foreign policy position, and Serbia has today significantly strengthened its international reputation and international image and Serbia is today a reliable, secure and stable partner. What he just spoke of is true and it is of great importance for Serbia, Angela Merkel will visit Belgrade on Monday, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, and we should never forget what she did for our country in 2015 when Croatia introduced sanctions and what we expect is that the trade exchange with Germany this year will be greater than six billion euros and that Berlin is our largest foreign trade partner. As for the second agreement, it concerns the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus in the area of disaster protection. I would stress the importance of decades of friendly co-operation with Cyprus since the declaration of independence in the country in 1960 and the time of the first president of Cyprus Makarios to attend the First Unclassified Conference in Belgrade since 1961. Right, so 60 years ago. To remind me that the 60th anniversary of the Movement of Unclassified in October of the month in Belgrade will be held again at the Conference of Countries belonging to the movement of non-classified people whose SFRJ was then leader. As Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic is in a coordinated action of exceptional national and state interest together with former foreign minister, and today the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, at a time when he was Minister of Foreign Affairs, has restored many friendships with these countries by campaigning to withdraw from the self-proclaimed state, and we hope that this important meeting will also be a new opportunity to establish even better co-operation with many non-classified countries, and this will certainly contribute not only to better and political, but also to economic co-operation on which an accent should be put. When it comes to the Republic of Cyprus, which is one of the five non-EU member states, and under any circumstances will recognise an independent Kosovo, I would take advantage of this opportunity to thank the state leadership and the people of Cyprus for their consistent policy, endurance and defence, above all, of international law and in refusing to support the secessionist intentions of Kosovo Albanians. To remind me that Cyprus voted against Kosovo's entry into UNESCO in 2015. The decades-long co-operation between our two countries has been valorised through more than 30 bilateral agreements in different areas, as well as developed and continued co-operation and political dialogue at all levels, from co-operation in legal matters to co-operation in the field of tourism. In recent years, external trade with Cyprus has been strengthened, and Cyprus is ninth in terms of investment in Serbia. According to data in 2020, for example, the trade between Serbia and Cyprus amounted to 46.1m euros, our exports amounted to 41.7m euros, confirming the importance of the Cypriot market for our economy and the inflow of investments from the Republic of Cyprus in the first half of 2020, which is also a significant figure given that Cyprus is a small country. Of course, small by size. It should not be ignored that it is a developed tourist destination that hosts as few million tourists annually. The signing of this agreement is primarily an deepening of co-operation between the two friendly countries of Serbia and Cyprus, this time in the area of providing mutual assistance in the event of disasters and activities in the area of protection and rescue. The agreement therefore allows a large number of joint activities, a specific sector in the MUP. In particular, in Serbia, this agreement will be implemented by the Emergency Sector, and the agreement envisions otherwise humanitarian actions such as exchange of experts, education, training and different uses of equipment necessary for the recovery of disasters such as fires, floods and other natural disasters. As regards the third agreement on today's agenda, the proposal to confirm Decision 2014/2 amending Annex 1 of the Convention on cross-border effects of industrial disasters, Serbia, as a member of the UN, is a member of the Convention on cross-border effects of industrial disasters concluded in Helsinki in 1992 with the aim of preventing or reducing the consequences of cross-border industrial events. The signatories are obliged to identify, through their legal frameworks, dangerous activities that may cause industrial accidents, including, of course, local criteria. Identification of locational risks is important because of the prevention of industrial excesses that may have devastating consequences especially if they are consequences with a cross-border effect. We now need to support and confirm the decision on this Annex, the Annex to this Convention, and this amendment precisely defines dangerous substances that extend the basis of dangerous industrial activities and risks for continuing industrial excesses. Certainly, Serbia should, as a signator of the Convention, also confirm this decision that significantly facilitates the application of the Convention, especially the aspect of the prevention of industrial accidents. At the very end, the SPS Parliamentary Group will support all the proposed acts of today's agenda, taking into account, above all, their importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9087	I thank the esteemed president of the SPS Parliament Club, Mr. Djordj Milicevic. I give my word to Mr. George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9088	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers with associates, I will pay my attention, although you and your colleagues before me have spoken a lot of things about the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on war memorials, pay particular attention to this. First of all, what is expected when someone who was also a minister of justice is at the head of the ministry, it is clear that the definitions entered into in this agreement are absolutely consistent and clear and in line with the laws currently in force in the Republic of Serbia because we had the chance that the texts of the agreement were not fully harmonised somewhere. Why am I saying this? For my part, we lawyers like to read always what is written on paper, and for the sake of citizens, it should be said that according to the War Memorial Act, the war memorial is a military cemetery, an individual grave, a tombstone, a memorial of the skeleton, a memorial of the church, a monument, a public memorial, a memorial of a record, a place of destruction, a famous place and another piety symbol of importance for the cultivation of the tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars. This definition is clearly in line with the representatives of the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, and in Article 1 of the Agreement in question, only to be defined under a) what the German war memorials are, under b) is defined as what the Serbian war memorials are. Another very important thing about this agreement, which contains an extremely small but very clear and sufficient number of members who, in a completely single way, are the whole situation that is complex about the war memorials of the Federal Republic of Germany, the war memorials of the Republic of Serbia, defines, opens up a space for agreements where the arrangements are necessary and necessary for various reasons that I will talk about a little later, but in other things very precisely defines what is totally undeniable in the relations between the Federal Republic of Germany and the Republic of Serbia when it comes to war memorials. In my view, there is a very important Article 3 that says in point 1. – that contracting parties provide each other with free and unlimited time to use land, i.e. land surfaces that serve as war memorials, as permanent resting places for their victims in the war. For objective and life reasons and the passage of time and some other things is very important and the attitude of the 3rd member says – that if one of the contracting parties for convincing reasons, public reasons, some land under the attitude of the 1st member will be needed for another purpose, then he will place some other suitable land at his disposal and take over the costs of moving the deceased and editing new graves. The choice of new land, its arrangement and implementation of the transfer of the deceased is carried out with mutual consent. And that is what are the key principles when it comes to something called the Agreement and the very text of the Agreement that is truly extremely good and well done. First of all, I'd like something about our military memorials that you said yourself, if I'm not mistaken, that there are 41 registered in Germany. You say it's 42, or I don't see it from here right now, and it doesn't matter, you'll correct me, and maybe I didn't manage very well, but what I found on the Ministry's website, related to military memorials and monuments of the deceased, captured Serbian soldiers in World War I and in World War II, made me happy, but also a little worried about some things. I understand that in 2020 or 2021 there were years in which the movement was, so let me put it down to a minimum because of the crown of the virus, but for those before you who were in the position of the minister in all the earlier period there is simply no excuse for the following things. This section contains a brief overview of where the place or city is located, the area when it comes to military cemetery or memorial, then the name of cultural goods, the degree of preservation and individual notes. What I've concluded from this review, which is devastating, is that for eight of these memories, we don't have the data in what state the degree of preservation is. I absolutely think it is unacceptable that if the justification for Coronation is a virus, limited movement, which was in all countries, including in the Republic of Germany, but there is absolutely no excuse that by 2019, all previous ministries, embassies, consulates, at least do not visit physically and look at the state of the memorial. What's even sadder in this whole story, I'm going to watch it now that I'm drowning less with this data, but let's just say, Nojmarkt, a military cemetery, is not a known degree of preservation. 164 people from today's Republic of Serbia were buried during World War II. Well, Einstein, Andervaldman, I apologize if I did not read correctly, a military cemetery, is not known the status of buried and an unknown number of people from today's Republic of Serbia died during World War II. In Berlin the same situation, in Hanover the same situation, in Essen the same situation, in Castle the same situation, in Munich the same situation, in Duizburg the same situation, that is, the finding on the Ministry's site, unless I found some obsolescence. Although I may be a Yugoslav, I again underline these findings and notes. The buried or unknown or known number of people in the area of today's Republic of Serbia, but where it says that the Yugoslavs or areas outside Serbia are buried, there is a finding for all these memorials. I think it's something that needs to be done urgently, as soon as that crown and the limitation of the movement in Germany is allowed, because then obviously we don't know based on this table, or you didn't get from your predecessors what condition our memories in Germany were in, and then how do we know what we need to do to maintain them? Many things we from Germany, their approach to many things of life and problems need to learn. Germany, as far as I know, requires, among other things, the markings and monuments of their soldiers to be taken care of in the Forests. That's exactly what I was talking about, that third-party member who's very important, who's creating a space to solve some of this kind of controversial detail that I'm going to go back to. I'm not worried about a lot of headlines, the Nazis are still celebrating because they're in smaller cities, they're marking various anniversarys, they're visiting their cemetery, etc. And I won't be worried about it as long as we have an attitude, and I haven't heard it from the soul and found it said in Serbia, it was said in Montenegro, practically referring to the same, where the Secretary General of the People's Union for War Cemetery Daniela Sheila said that she knew that they had been killed exclusively by German soldiers in the fight against the Partisans in that cemetery. In this deliberate barbaric war, we know that battles against partisans are probably not only against partisans, marked as particularly cruel, ruthless and full of human wickedness. We know they've been retaliated against the evil crimes committed against the civilian population. The National Union is aware of this guilt and that's what she said in the Doves when the cemetery was moved there, and during that event, she said this. So one very clear, profiled, appropriate attitude that is acceptable to us, which shows that today's Germany really understands all the negativity of its historical role in these areas. One more thing I wanted to say, for one important difference in all this, no Serb soldier or civilian who died in World War I or World War II, and was buried in Germany or in a single grave or in a common tomb, went there to conquer or to war. He was taken there as a prisoner or as a labor force. The Vermacht soldiers are buried in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the second, as well as those who died in the First World War, the Germans were buried as occupiers and conquerors. I am very proud of the Serbian tradition, which is that other people's cemeteries are respected, besides never as Serbs in the wars with Bulgaria have broken the war, failed to pass a medical unit or anything else, to help Bulgarian soldiers who had to fight tomorrow. I'm talking so clearly about what to do and we have to be proud of it, but the time behind us shows that we have certain gaps that, fortunately, we still can and must make up for. The question of the forest is something that is obvious, what was thought about, not only the forest, perhaps the kings, but the woods are so very specific in place and event, that maybe thinking is better if the German memorial refers to the old cemetery of the first war and the Second War were moved to another location. Yet the Foresters are the place where they shot on October 21st 1941, 3,000, but absolutely innocent civilians, of which 300 and more high school students, as well as 15 boys who cleaned their shoes on the street, neither guilty nor due. On the one hand, I am sorry, on the other hand, that from that event, I am glad that the disgrace of a Serb named Marisav Petrovic was not killed in Serbia as it was appropriate when the war ended or during the war, but died in 1974, behold, strangely, right in Munich. Because what strange standards we have set today, perhaps even Marisav Petrovic, the famous Ljoticevic, who led students before the German machine guns, could today be rehabilitated in a magical way, as well as Drenjanin from Mala Mostenica, because he was not judged by today's standards. So this should be considered and indeed made possible by the descendants of these soldiers who are buried in the Forests, because in the Forests, if we count, but the victims are not numbered, there are more buried soldiers than there are buried by our students and innocent civilians who have been shot there. I think there needs to be an appropriate compromise to stay as permanent records on something that can never be repeated. As far as our memories are concerned, I think that, fortunately, many individuals are responsible because some of these memorials exist at all, they are preserved and we really expect this to be fully taken over in one responsible way today. For example, in the town of Ulm in the German province of Baden Virtemberg, where 142 Serb soldiers were buried in the middle of that cemetery, there was an extraordinary monument, but that monument did not raise either the Kingdom of Serbia, nor the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, nor the former Yugoslavia, that monument was erected by three surviving sergeants, one subordinate and two soldiers, and I am very sorry that, with all my efforts, I failed to find their names, to mention them today, because I hope they have descendants and that their descendants are being raised up to them and have reason to rise. The question is, if we knew about all this, that it wasn't Slobodan Miljevic, a priest from Stuttgart, as well as priest Radmil Marinko, who had been actively gathering data since the 1990s, first with the names of soldiers, then how they got killed, where they were buried, where they were buried. All of this simply delivered and made it easier for the authorities to continue this story. What may not be directly related to the agreement itself, but what is a problem that can lead to all the effort we expect to be made by the Republic of Serbia and the money to bring these memorials into order is something else. If we continue to educate our children the way we started and teach history the way they learn today, I'm afraid this is just a wasteful job. It will have a purpose as long as there are older generations who remember something. Today, children are served the Hague truth in schools. In my opinion, the controversial reform of history teaches, because simply what they baptized as some kind of thematic approach leads to a completely non-chronological teaching that leads to understanding and understanding of Serbian history. So if someone at school first learns the Christian partition of 1504 years, then returns to the early Middle Ages, then goes to Turkish conquests, then learns about the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, then only then we go to the periods of Germany and learn what fascism is and everything else, it is not something that will allow generations that come behind us to understand all the value of the memorials and Serbian memorials, not only in the Federal Republic of Germany, but also in all those sites where Serb soldiers or Serbian civilians are buried. If we allow NGOs to do and try, which is that students in particular must be forced to analyse the impact of the development of the European West and... The causal-consequential links to examples from national history make conclusions about international relations, and completely exclude our relations with Russia, our history, the chronology of the creation of the Serbian state, I'm afraid we'll come to a situation very soon that we won't have anyone else to understand and take care of war memorials wherever they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9089	I thank the honourable People's MP George Komlensky for his presentation. I give my word to the promoter, Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9090	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, and I thank all the debaters so far, especially the distinguished Mr. or the other Komlenski for a very precise and constructive analysis of the text of the agreement itself, of its legal aspects, and of keeping an account of the sensitivity of matter itself in one, I am convinced, a very good way that can be an example of other agreements of a similar kind in those cases where we have not yet concluded such a conclusion. I just want to look at the four special points that my colleague Komlenski was talking about. Also, I noticed myself preparing for today's session that out of 45, and my mistake was 41, so 45 war memorials in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany exist who are dedicated to Serbian soldiers from both the First and the Second World War. Eight of them say they don't know what condition they're in. What I'm trying to say here is that in a record-speed period, we're going to find out what they're in, we're going to document it, we're going to identify what it is that needs to be done, because if I'm not wrong for 40 days after the ratification of the agreement in the Assembly and the notification of the other side of this agreement itself begins. It is unacceptable that we have, not eight, but one of the only ones we do not know about, but somewhere I am convinced that this is due to something that is a major problem for our state and our state authorities and one of the main causes, but also an excuse for that, and that is the complete absence of coordination between the work of different state bodies. So, according to the current Ministry Act, this matter is, as you well know, in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. When you explain it to someone who's on the side or someone who's younger, it sounds completely strange to him, from where it comes from in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour. In fact, this area became part of the Ministry of Labour's competence the moment our country eventually abolished a ministry dealing with purely martial arts, so it joined the Ministry of Labour. What's interesting is that before World War II, our country solved this matter, that is, it dealt with these activities in one way when war memorials were in the territory of our country, and in another way when those who are outside its borders. Here we essentially need to do something from the following: or much better coordinate the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the competent ministry, or consider redefining jurisdiction when it comes to those memorials located on the territory of other countries. You're absolutely right when you said the riot was a case, I'd even say it was a major case, that Serbian war memorials were raised by individuals, not by the state, that a smaller number of those raised by the state. So, I was able to visit some of these war memorials where there are, our war memorials, where the only features up until a few years ago were the ones that the enemies raised to our fallen ancestors, and neither of us, where other foreigners from that time raised the memory of our victims, and neither of us, which just suggests that as a state, we have much more to pay attention to. I have listened very carefully to what you have been saying about the case "Shumarica" and that is why the agreement itself contains provisions that require the agreement of both sides to carry out certain activities on the ground. It should not be forgotten, there is a German military cemetery in the First World War. There's something else I want to take advantage of that opportunity to say. You said there were rarely individuals responsible for the existence of some war memorials. Even today, there are cases where war memorials are maintained thanks to individuals. You mentioned that three sergeants, one subordinate and two soldiers were responsible for raising one beautiful monument in Ulm, and these were Sergeants Milan Vidanovic, Isailo Cvetkovic, Milan Trajkovic, Sgt. Zivorad Spasojevic and soldiers Miodrag Djordjevic and Radivoje Cvetkovic. Imagine those six of our ancestors who organized themselves, in fact showing us what a well-organized group of people can do, and to our shame what they haven't done or what the state isn't doing yet. What we will do and what I am confident and the commitment of colleague Daria Kisić Tepavcevic, who is at the head of the competent restor, but also of my smallities, as foreign minister, is that in the future we will pay special attention to this aspect of our diplomatic network. The nation is a community of the dead, living and those who will be born and take care of those places where our ancestors have left their bones from far north to North Africa. As I said, as a descendant of whose family under this last name only in World War I suffered 72 men's heads, from the territory of the Zlatibor County, but also from the very house of the two who left the bones in Austria and Tunisia, I feel a kind and personal responsibility that we are doing this much more. I can tell you something else, thank you especially for saying this, from the Germans, from the Austrians, not that we can, but also we have to learn how this is being taken care of, what it looks like when you go to some Serbian war memorial, whether today on the territory of Germany or on the territory of Austria, where you see their organisations taking care of it and taking care of it, that it looks like an example. Once again, thank you for your constructive approach, for your very good speech, and what I remain in your debt is for you to get information as soon as possible, as we all do, in what state there are eight numbered war memorials that you listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9091	I thank Minister Selakovic for his explanations and explanations. We start with a list of speakers. The first on the list is the Honorable President of the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation, Mr Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9092	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Krkobic. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, this week we debated and voted with today's day, I think, over seven interstate agreements. This speaks of the position and strength of our country on commitment, primarily the President of the State and the Prime Minister, but also of your ministry and of you personally. This is evidence not only that we want to co-operate and promote bilateral relations with other countries, but evidence of the respect our country and our diplomacy enjoys in the world. We have partners in both the east and the west, and what's the impression, is that the Austrian Chancellor was, comes Chancellor Merkel, the president travels to Turkey, will be a summit unclassified in the tenth month, and certainly Belgrade has a very live activity regarding Southeast Europe and the southwestern Balkans and our diplomacy. From this living activity, maybe someone doesn't care, make investments, create new jobs, create new ways. If we were expected to have good cooperation with non-classifieds, we certainly did not expect to have co-operation with the Federal Republic of Germany at this level, and it is very important that we talk about war memorials today. The Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party, will vote for all proposed agreements. Germany is our very important partner. The biggest investments come from the Federal Republic of Germany. Exports make a very important item in our country's budget and these memorials should certainly be adopted, because the minimum of what every man deserves is to know his grave. What impressed me especially when the minister was saying is that we had previously, it seems to me, although wars and conflicts are tragic in themselves, affecting human lives, much more chivalrous and respect for victims, even when it comes to soldiers, because most of these soldiers had to be in certain conflicts due to politics. It is evident that after World War II, and despite civilization's development, we had more and more bloody conflicts and there was less and less chivalrous and respect, not only for soldiers, but also for civilian victims. What's the conclusion with today's prey is that we look to the future, but to remember our history and to draw lessons from that history and make new friendships. We can't change history, but tomorrow and better for our children, we certainly owe it to leave. In the voting day, our parliamentary group will support all proposed agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9093	I thank Mr. Tandir. Next on the list is Mr. People's MP Vladan Glisic. He's not present. ) Next on the list is Mr. Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9094	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regardless of the Rules of Procedure, I think the Committee on Agriculture should have said a word about this law, although it is not the Rules of Procedure. Most of these memorials, most graves were left by farmers, or peasants. The most famous army of Serbia and Serbs was the peasant army. She defended her home, her house, excuse me, she defended her own, she defended her plum, she defended her, she never attacked what was in front of her, she always defended what she had behind her, and that's why she was famous, and that's why she should be remembered as such. Through the Balkan wars and through World War I, the Serbian army made a great state. To not lie, that great nation has turned its sons, individual sons, Serbian communists, along with an enemy soldier, into six national states and two provinces, seven so far, seven. I hope we get back to six at least. So that unique state we allowed our stupidity to turn into six national states, to throw a million and 264 thousand victims under our feet in World War I, to allow communists to trample them and turn the state where all Serbs lived in one country into six. They say King Alexander left us without the sea. That's not true. Without the sea, without the exit to the sea, they left the communists, creating an artificial nation and redistributing the seashore. It was not shared by King Alexander, it was shared by Serbian communists, along with the enemy soldier, with false Croatian communists, because for me, the Socialist Republic of Croatia was only a transition from one NDH to another NDH and was only a means to complete Pavelic's programme to banish the third. That's true. In those wars, we were the most injured. Montenegro says we occupied them. And Montenegro will not say that in 1918 it had a coast from Sutomor to Ulcinj, and that everything else had been brought into conflict with the allies, King Alexander, brought the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, or later the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. They reached the coast with one gun and a leather coat of Blaz Jovanovic and a debate on life supplies in Kotor, April 1945, before the war ended. The communists have achieved a programme similar to Ustasha for me -- the creation of national states in the territory of the state for which Serbs died, mainly farmers. There's a saying - when wars break out, the state makes cannons, the rich give oxen, and the poor give sons. With the state often giving cannons with different calibers in World War I, so Serbian peasants died more because they had to wait for the ammunition we received from the allies to be adapted to the cannons of the Serb army. So we got the wrong artillery that way. The rich often gave up the rages, and the peasants gave up the only ones, and the peasant army that created a great state, which we didn't respect, we have memorials. Those memorials in Austria, the minister will confirm, are being led not by Serbian soldiers, but by Serbian farmers. That's why I said in the introduction that the Committee on Agriculture needed something to say in the glory of those heroes. That's how they were seduced by Geneva conventions. Often these men of a piece of uniform only had a spoon. Today in Vojvodina, you have what was there to strengthen Milo Djukanovic, who says fascism is to hold the liturgy. Nenad Canak says that fascism is to hold the liturgy. Preventing roads, burning tires with stones, shooting, that's not fascism for him, for him is fascism liturgy, and the attack on the peaceful church ritual of the Serbian Orthodox Church is fascism for him. He says it's against the spoon. The nail was the mark of a Serb soldier in the territory of today's AP Vojvodina. In respect of Belgrade's release, they gave the cap to their countrymen, and so the shaker entered as a mark of the Serb army, as so far the Serbs wore fesses. You can tell by the picture of Vuk Karadzic. Today he says - we're not going to goose. Does anyone know that both the pirate academys were on the territory of the Vojvodina? One was in Irig and the other one was in Old Slankham. Does anyone know what was called Višniæ's village between the two wars, when we had the greatest respect for the heroes and the opposing armies? It was called Greek. It changed the name, voluntarily, to Višnićeva, because of Serbian Homer Filip Višnić. And today, Nenad Canak in Vojvodina says, "We don't goose, we don't suck." Speaking of which, let's say next. Who is today completing this state process in Montenegro, who does all this, who are these people? Let's start in a row. Who was the most active there? Milo Djukanovic, Communist Prime Minister Nenad Canak, son of Communist Mayor Vuk Draskovic, commander, or son of a commander or deputy commander of the communist Partisan Army. Communists in other uniforms are still completing the programme from Dresden, the spray church becomes a victim because it is part, most of Serbian identity, or Serbian nationality. Milo Djukanovic saw the difference between the number of citizens who respect the SPC in Montenegro, the number of citizens who speak Serbian, and the language determines the people in most cases. We all say that Serbs are Orthodox and he saw a huge difference that melts between those Serbs who have pleaded as Serbs and those citizens of Montenegro who have pleaded to speak Serbian and respect the Serbian church. Since the difference melts, he has called on his brothers communists, communist followers, heirs and hence we have a problem in Montenegro. We do not make it, they have a problem with the citizens of Montenegro who continue to respect Negos, who still know they are Serbs and since the number of Serbs is probably increasing, the census is gone, we have two Mile policies today, regardless of this action and so on. I still think we're dealing not only with Milo Djukanovic, but with Milo Krivokapic. We have two almost identical policies towards Serbs in Montenegro and no matter what others think. I don't think with one of Mil's policies he can beat the other one of Mil's policies. Today we are discussing Serbian cemetery. I think it's time we thought more about life. We've been madly brave, often and crazy, and we didn't need March 27th, because we lost 15% of the population, and those English, the United Kingdom, that's where I count everyone who's dragged us into it for the £200,000 they've given Simovic, you know how much they've lost? They lost 0.8%, and we lost 13% to 15% of the population. We claim that we lost 28% of the population in the First World War, that Serbia lost 28%, and we forget that today's Macedonian territory and today's AP KIM were only 6,000 recruits and that there was almost no retribution there. From Serbia's territory before the Balkan wars, when you calculate how many died, 44% of Serbs died in Serbia's territory, ahead of Balkan Serbia during World War I, not 28%, but 44%. If it hadn't been for that, if the English hadn't dragged us into a new war later, there might have been more of us today than the English. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think the time has come for us not to be foolishly brave, but to be a little wise. May the English live us where we are and declare us genocide, which we are not, rather than praise the dead. I think it's time we fought a lot for others, because in that war, the most frequent price was paid by the skin of the Balkan peoples. It's not what these others feel, it's how we feel, because most of the time it was the skin of the Serbian people. The time has come for us to be little and wise and not to go into wars lightly. I think Serbia should start living for itself. Jesus Christ loved others. It is time, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the Serbs to correct it a little bit, it is time for us to cultivate love for ourselves and for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9095	I thank Mr. Risticevic. Mr. Djordje Kosanic is the next MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9096	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Selakovic and his co-workers from the ministry, the Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a discussion of three already mentioned draft laws. Let me say at the very beginning that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will certainly support all the draft laws in this united debate. My colleague, Life Starcevic, as authorized in front of the JS parliamentary group, spoke about all the draft laws of this united debate, and my presentation will be focused on the draft law on the signing of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus, and on co-operation in the area of disaster protection. At the very beginning, when we talk about Serbia and Cyprus, I will say that relations between Serbia and Cyprus are friendly, based on mutual trust, historically confirmed closeness and solidarity between the two peoples. Of course, Minister, each agreement signed in one area gives us the opportunity to co-operate in many other areas of mutual interest for both countries. By signing certainly this Agreement on Co-operation in the area of disaster protection, both Serbia and Cyprus provide an opportunity to help each other if there are such unwanted situations, and this solidarity has been shown in Greece. Serbia is able and has a desire that, God forbid, if such situations occur in other countries in the environment, and we also expect help, God forbid, if such situations happen with us. The exchange of experts, expertise, opinions, technical and technological knowledge, as well as exchanges on education, training and equipment will also be possible. On the other hand, when we first talk about co-operation in the area of disaster protection, I am sure that Cyprus and I have something to say and help each other in other areas. Here, I can point out, say, the area of border control. On the other hand, when we talk about the migrant crisis. Minister, I remind you that in 2015, when the migration crisis began, Serbia asked the EU to take a unique position without which we certainly cannot get out of this problem. I will also remind you that at this point, Cyprus has nearly 40,000 migrants on its territory, which makes up about 5% of the total population of this population. On the other hand, when we talk about Serbia and Cyprus, I have to say a very, very important issue for Serbia that Cyprus fully supports Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. So, he doesn't recognize that false creation, to tell the quasi state of Kosovo. On the other hand, our country provides support to Cyprus in preserving the integrity and sovereignty of this country, and based on relevant UN resolutions and on the agreement of the two sides. When it comes to the EU accession process for Serbia, it is very important to engage Cyprus as our friendly countries in European institutions and to present Serbia's efforts on the other hand to join the EU. As far as economic relations between Serbia and Cyprus are concerned, there is certainly a great space for them to relate, I say, to raise to a much higher level, but what we are particularly interested in is the area of investment. Minister, it is not a secret, Serbia is a leader in the Western Balkans as far as foreign investment is concerned. Even 60% of all investments coming to the Western Balkans are heading towards Serbia. This, on the other hand, speaks of the trust investors have in Serbia, and it speaks of how far Serbia is moving forward, and on the other hand, knowing that at this moment many countries have a problem, amid the crisis caused by the Corona virus pandemic and many investors are giving up their engagement in those countries, and on the other hand, no investor has given up in Serbia. At the very end of the minister, I would like to focus on one very important question, the question, it seems to me that in this matter we must pay much more attention to the years to come, and this is a question of diaspora and Serbia and Cyprus, they have a number of diaspora, but what is important to us here, that Cyprus has an extremely organised diaspora and we seem to owe thanks to the Cypriot colleagues who have given us all their knowledge and experience, as regards these very important topics for Serbia. At the very end, let me say once again that the JS parliamentary group, in voting day, will support all the draft laws on this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9097	I thank Mr. Kosanovic. Mr. Secretary has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9098	Thank you very much, dear colleague Kosanić, for a very constructive discussion. I just want to let you know one thing, we signed a memorandum of understanding and co-operation if I'm not mistaken, it was two years ago, with a special service within the Cypriot state in charge of caring for their diaspora. The Kovida 19 pandemic slowed down the realization of some of our agreements, and the main agreement reached during my visit to Cyprus, in December of last year, that our Directorate for Diaspora of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as soon as possible to define a young diplomat who will go to the study room, to Cyprus, who will make an effort there to find out what the best experiences of Cypriot colleagues in working with their diaspora, that these experiences, we will try to transfer as much as possible, in the work of our diaspora administration and our diaspora and Serbs in the region, are very serious about the goals and tasks set, and we will certainly get out in October with the results of work in the first year of the term of this ministry and the very administration, where the director of Gujon is making great efforts to make good results, and the continuation of our work will certainly be consumed with serious co-operation with the brother Cyprus and on this plan. Thank you for paying attention to this important aspect of our relationship and cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9099	I thank Mr. Secretary. The next National MP, Milija Miletic, two minutes remaining, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9100	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to Nis, and it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, I've been selected from the list of Alexander Vukic-For our children and I represent the United Peasant Party. I will speak about these proposals for the agreement, as well as my colleagues who spoke before me about the graves, as far as all our people who died here and in the distance are concerned, we all know that the Serb tripod who saved our country is Serbia, that's our Serb village, that's the Serbian church and the Serbian army. When we talk about our Serbian village, we have a lot to say about it, and we are witnesses and we all know that the Serbian peasant has always been on the defender of the country, he has defended and fed our country to Serbia forever. So, we have to respect these people, look up to our neighbours, Germany, Austria, normally, these are the countries that will always be with us, which have helped us in the previous period, but in the past centuries, we have had a lot of negative experiences, but our country Serbia has managed to stay, to strengthen. After ten years, Serbia is recovering, we are becoming a very strong and capable state. One of the important things is that we will always respect our graves, respect and cherish. This part of the Cyprus-related agreement on disasters, on bad situations, has proved that our people are able to come out and help anyone who needs help at any moment. Here, the situation in Greece has shown that our rescue firemen were one of the most active, who helped protect property, save human lives, thus showing that we Serbs were always ready to be with everyone, to help everyone, to appreciate everyone. Otherwise, the Serbian host is a man who whenever someone comes by, they will always give him, as they say, the last bite of food, to honor his guest. So, I think this is all the right thing to do. With us in southeast Serbia, there is also a Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, which is ready at any moment to help all of us, if any bad situation happens, ice, fires, floods, or anything else. As an MP and representative of the United Peasant Party, I will support all these proposals of the agreement, because this is the right thing to do, and our government and our president of Serbia lead our country in a way that is best for all of us. Once again, I will vote for all these bill proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9101	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word has a National MP, Slavenko Unkovic. Five minutes for your group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9102	Thank you, Chairman. Honored ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed a law in 2018 that regulates the Memorial of the wartime past of the Republic of Serbia from the First Balkan War to the last conflicts of the 1990s. Today's proposal for an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on war memorials enables the memory of military and civilian war victims and the preservation of the place where they are buried, in accordance with the Geneva Conventions. This Agreement will provide the Contracting Party, each on its territory and on its cost of protection of monuments, access, maintenance and cultivation of war memorials. Under the memorials, we mean places where soldiers and civilian victims of wars are buried, individual and common graves, existing cemeteries, or individual plots that testify to war events. We will always find reasons to justify our indemnity in the past, but one of the reasons for our negligence, carelessness and desolation of German war graves is also the order of the Yugoslav government in 1945, to bury, hum and monuments of fascist occupiers removed and levelled with the earth, in order to wipe out in every way the trace of their existence. A great mistake was made then, and if historians of that time warned, there was no regard for cemeteries, monuments from the First World War, and during that period there was the greatest devastation of these cemeteries and monuments. Germany's World War I cemetery existed for many cities, as well as for smaller towns across Serbia. The largest in Belgrade are several locations, Smedereva, Nis, Pancheva, Kovina, Kragujevac etc. As an example of major negligence on our part is the Smederjevo cemetery where a little less than 5,000 soldiers and prisoners of war were killed, including Serb victims. There used to be a big monument for this event, and today there's no mention of a record, let alone some sort of layout of space. This is just one example, and there are many across Serbia. A good example and evidence that care and restoration of the German military cemetery from the First World War can be maintained in the Košutnjak park, where about 3,000 German and fifty Serb soldiers rest. It may be the only example of military history to raise the monument of the one he fought against, but here is the opportunity to be responsible, and the obligation under this new agreement to bring as much care as we would like to have someone take care of our cemeteries, monuments across Europe. During the last meetings of President Vukic and Chancellor Merkel, she said she was one of the key points of our co-operation and the issue of war memorials. On that occasion, President Vukic said that such agreements lead to final political reconciliation, so that Germany, apart from being an important economic partner, has the opportunity to do so politically. During their last meeting these days, Chancellor Merkel's arrival in Serbia was confirmed, her visit to the Forests was agreed, where the memorial complex was erected in memory of innocent massacre victims committed by German occupiers. So far, no senior official has come to honor these innocent victims. This will indeed be a great gesture and a step forward, and also our task of taking responsibility for these historic events. With regard to the Agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus, there was the interest of the two countries to make more precise offices of this form, relations and means of co-operation in the area of protection and prevention of disasters for voluntary provision of mutual assistance in the case of disasters on the territory of any party and other forms of mutual co-operation. This is certainly useful and necessary for our country. When we talk about the amendments to the Annex to the Convention on the Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents, which today is ahead of us, it is being taken to take measures to prevent industrial accidents. The parties have committed themselves to taking measures to identify dangerous activities in their territory. This means preventing uncontrollable events during any activity when it is in the path of transporting dangerous substances, as well as the production and storage of dangerous substances. Of course, it is about harmonising our international obligations and maintaining consistency with EU legislation. Of course, all three of today's agreements are in the interest of our country. The Single Serbia parliamentary group will support these proposals in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9103	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9104	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected ministers with associates, faces us today with a set of very important and constructive draft laws, and I would like to pay attention to the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the area of disaster protection. Natural disasters are becoming more and more serious about the security of modern humanity. Not only is there a trend in increasing the number of natural disasters in recent decades, but there is also an increase in their destruction. This has resulted in increased human losses, material and immaterial damage, which also results in a slowdown in sustainable development in general. To be more precise, new reports released by the UN in September this year suggest that extreme weather events have increased five times in the last 50 years, and that more than two million people have lost their lives. This detailed report analysed some 11,000 natural disasters that have occurred in the last 50 years. The report clearly points to a trend in the acceleration of natural disasters, with the number growing by almost five times in the period from 1970 to 2019. When we talk about the previous year, the world hit 980 natural disasters that caused a loss of at least 8,200 human lives. Also, floods, hurricanes, storms, floods left behind material damage estimated at 210 billion US dollars in 2020, well over 166 billion dollars in 2019. UN special envoy to reduce the risk of disasters Mama Mizutori said that natural disasters in the world last year left 31 million people displaced and 26 million people pushed into poverty. So it is evident that we live in a multi-hazard world, a world with many dangers, and therefore it is necessary to invest in the area of disaster protection. We must not be guided by politics – they will not, because a few years ago in May 2014, we saw that every society, even ours, is vulnerable when nature decides to show its strength and strength. So, natural disasters have been happening and they're going to happen. We must therefore put forth all efforts to better organize and prepare ourselves. Serbia, as a serious state, does, and this bill speaks in favour of my finding. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the area of disaster protection has a clear objective, which is to regulate framework conditions for co-operation in the area of disaster prevention and disaster preparedness. To be clear, cooperation between the parties mainly covers the following areas: assistance in the event of disasters, protection and rescue, as well as mitigation and removal of their consequences, mutual information on the risks of disasters and their consequences, exchange of scientific and technical knowledge and transfer of expertise from disaster protection, education and training of employees involved in protection and rescue activities, development and production of equipment for protection and rescue. Also, I would take this opportunity to thank the Republic of Cyprus for its principled view of non-recognition of Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. In this way, Cyprus has shown that it respects the sovereignty and territorial and integrity of the Republic of Serbia, that it respects the principles of international law, that it is a responsible and reliable partner and an honest friend of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, the desire to improve bilateral relations between Serbia and Cyprus is entirely justified. For all of this, I will personally, and I hope my colleagues, support this, as well as other proposals, in the hope that they will support the fight for strong, modern and safe Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9105	Thank you. The next is distinguished colleague Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9106	The respected chairman, respected ministers, with co-workers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia knows and remembers. Serbia wants to know every site and every grave site in which Serb soldiers were killed, but also civilian war victims, fighting for our country's freedom. Serbia knows and remembers, not for revenge, but that never and no such crimes, as they were committed on the Serbian people, would be repeated, that no child would ever be killed in the most monstrous way, just because it is Serbian. Government policy, policy by President Aleksandar Vukic, is a policy of peace, stability and perhaps the strongest message of peace is the message Alexander Vukic sent to Serbian citizens, which is that he does not want any soldiers to return to his mother in the coffin. This is quite enough to indicate that Serbia is firmly defined and resolved for peace and stability in both Serbia and the whole region, but of course, everyone must know that the victims of Serbs, "Storms" and new pogroms will never allow it again, because Serbia is small, but today it is also a strong country. What I must point out, and as far as the agreement is concerned, first of all between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, on war memorials, is that no matter what we were on different sides, the Germans have expressed regret and faced what their ancestors did. There is one state in the Balkans, we were once in the common state, the Federal Federal Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which has never faced the victims she committed, during the Second World War, as an associate of fascism and fascist occupation in the area of the Independent State of Croatia. I will return to the death of our soldiers in the First World War, to their departure as prisoners of war in other camps, first of all in Germany, because of this agreement, and I must state, the authorised representative of the SNS spoke of the Serbian military cemetery in Ulm, and I will talk about a concentration camp located near Ulm, in Kuberg, where Serbian prisoners of war from the First World War, who were brought from wartimes and mostly belonged to the Drinska, Moravia and Timo's division, but apart from prisoners of war, both women, children and old men were brought. It was a torture ground for both Serbs and Russians. A large number of our soldiers and civilian faces suffered, but exactly the names of 146 people who stayed in the cemetery forever, at a former camp in Kuberg. Also, I must point out that the monument, as a monument to the memory of the victims of Serb prisoners, has been raised in fact by their comrades. Also, I must point out that in World War I, camps, Germany, women and children and old people were taken, that the Danube River, which today connects many European countries, were taken both by prisoners of war and by civilians. Also, I have to point out that in World War II, war prisoners were also taken from the camp, but also civilians on marched cattle trains. Many of these prisoners did not even arrive at their destination, but were losing their lives from thirst, from hunger, from overcrowding, from disease on the trains themselves. A large number of their bones remained in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany. Of course, this agreement is very important for us to remember, to remember, so that such things never happen again to us. But in the NDH space during World War II, there was a camp called Jasenovac, a concentration camp where genocide was committed against Serbs, Jews and Roma. Israeli historian Graif, otherwise known for his holocaust studies, wrote the book "Jasenovac, Auschwitz Balkana". That speaks enough of the extermination of both Serbs and Jews and Roma. Jasenovac is the largest underground city to suffer the Serbian, Jewish and Roma people in World War II. Dr. Graif described in his book 57 ways of torture, abuse and torture against prisoners of Serbs, Jews and Roma. The most shocking are the testimony and ways to describe the torture of Serbian children. Among other things, in the NDH in Jasenovac, Ustashas abused children by breaking their skulls by hitting children’s heads against the wall. They also tortured their children by beating them to bayonets in front of their mothers. They tortured the children, and that way, that little, very little, almost baby, put them in the furunas to burn. They tortured the children by putting them alive in lime to burn them. Is there more monstrosity, greater crimes and greater genocide than what the Ustasha in NDH did during World War II in the Jasenovac concentration camp? There were no concentration camps for children in countries that were associates of fascist Germany. The only concentration camps for children existed in the NDH area and lost tens of thousands of children in these camps. The Croats have never shown remorse. On the contrary, they want that number of victims to be reduced. According to the list of the Earth Commission, right after World War II, in Jasenovac, a concentration camp, in which a genocide of Serbs, Jews and Roma was committed, at least 700,000 people were killed, of which the largest number of Serbs were killed. A large Serb people's site within the Jasenovo camp is located in Donjo Gradina, where about 360,000 people, mostly Serbs, were killed, of which 20,000 children. I must point out that in the villages of Potkozar, Kozarska Dubica and other villages it took all 20 years for the first soldier to step into the soldiers, because the Ustashas in the NDH space killed everything that was Serbian from children, women, old men. To women who were pregnant, they pulled the fetus out of their stomachs, and then sewed it into the womb of a dead rat. Evil, crime, genocide. I must say that Jasenovac has been covered for a long time by a veil of silence, as if they were victims, which are Serbs, Jews and Roma, you should have kept quiet for some peace. And they kept quiet. The first to speak publicly is the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic. The first to speak of this suffering in the right way, about the suffering that was unrecorded in World War II, because again, there were no concentration camps for children except in the NDH area, is President Aleksandar Vukic. Just for the record, that our children learn that once a nation, although I'm not even sure that they stood up belong to the human race, did such a killing of another people, children, women, and only because they have a Serbian name and name. Today, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, met with the Serbian patriarch, and was agreed to build a memorial centre in the area of Lower Gradina, one of the largest sites within the Jasenovac camp, as a reminder and as a place to go, and learn, and to know what happened to our people during World War II. The 20th century was marked by many other Serb peoples sufferings. In the action "Storm" from the territory of Croatia in the 1990s, 250 thousand Serbs were expelled in one day, four thousand died, and in tractor columns, there were children on tractors who were saving their mothers, their grandmothers, their brothers and sisters, who had to drive those tractors, because their Ustashas killed their fathers, uncles, uncles, all men's heads. Every year, as a mention of the victims in the action "Storm", we mark that day as a day of memory, a day of pain and suffering, unlike Croatia, which celebrates that day as a day of victory. I don't know what victory is, because one whole nation who was otherwise a constituent people in the Republic of Croatia has been expelled from its centuries-old hearths, just because they have a Serbian name and name. When it comes to the further suffering of our people, there really was a lot of them in the 20th century. I must also mention the death of our people during the 1999 NATO Pact bombing, which lasted 78 days. In those 78 days every day from the air, invisible bombers killed and killed one child. The children were killed on the gurney, the children were killed in the arms of their parents. This is what will certainly remain recorded in our history, but no one has thought of honoring all those who were killed during NATO aggression to our president, Alexander Vukic. No one remembered 107 soldiers from Koshar who were 24 years old, who chose death for their country and life for their homeland. The previous authorities were ashamed of them. Only President Aleksandar Vukic, this government, every year, also, when marking the anniversary of NATO aggression calls and survives heroes from Koshar, because they are the best part of us. Of course, the message of this agreement is certainly further improving bilateral relations between Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany, but I must point out another fact that has not been remembered in the history of military warfare, which is that the enemy has raised an enemy monument. In the First World War, German military leader Makenzen erected a monument to Serb soldiers, defenders of Belgrade, 36 of them, who spent two days and two nights guarding other Belgrade defenders to get out of Belgrade, and 36 of them with two more British and one French soldier laid down their lives to defend Belgrade. The German military leader, when he visited a place where all Serbian soldiers were killed and 200 German soldiers were killed, said he had studied and read only in fairy tales. A monument erected by Serbian fighters says it was erected by Serbian heroes. History we must know, from history we must remove the dust, history is part of both the present and our future. We are defined for peace and great steps we walk into the future, so that never our people get hurt again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9107	Thank you, colleague, for your inspired speech. The next is People's MP, Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9108	The Honorable Chairman, honourable Minister Selakovic and his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, I will not say anything new if I repeat the indisputable fact that the Serbian people are one of the most percentuous people in the world. The Serbian people experienced genocide in World War I. The Serbian people experienced genocide in World War II, especially in the infamous NDH. The Serbian people experienced mass crimes and brutal ethnic cleansing during the 1990s. Over a million and 200,000 Serbs have been expelled from the former Yugoslavia. More than 500,000 Serbs have been expelled from today's Croatia. More than 500,000 Serbs were expelled from the area of today's Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and more than 200,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians were expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. More than 10,000 Serbs died in Croatia today. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, more than 30,000. In the area of Kosovo and Metohija, more than 3,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians. That is why it is very important, and I would like to commend the government of the Republic of Serbia's determination to pay even more attention in the coming period to the culture of memory of the injured Serbian fighters in the 20th century and during the 19th century, as well as the victims of Serbian civilians. In this context, I think that today's debate is also important and related to the draft law between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on war memorials. In my presentation, I will look back at the former Yugoslavia, especially the territory of today's Croatia and BiH, there are numerous data that since the arrival of the Prostitute regime Franjo Tudjman to power in 1990, more than 3,000 monuments have been torn down in today's Croatia, the mention of the markings, the busts that have been erected in honor of the injured Partizan fighters and the victims of the genocide of Serbia. What was the goal of systematic and planous destruction of monuments, mentioning markings and busts? On the one hand, a clear message has been sent to the Serbian people that he has no life in Tudjman's Croatia and that the strategic goal of Franjo Tudjman's regime is to create an ethnically pure Croatian state, with or without fewer Serbs. On the other hand, the goal was to move towards a three-year-long history review in Croatia. We in Croatia have important, significant social groups, such as the political parties of the right, the Catholic Church, the veteran associations, a significant part of the infrared elite, so we hear terrifying thesis, first that the infamous NDH is not a fascist formation, but a historical expression of the Croatian people for its country. So, the real Croatian state. Secondly, that there was no genocide against the Serb people in the independent state of Croatia, as well as against the Jews and the Roma, but that there was essentially a major Serb rebellion in 1941, and that the Ustasha regime had to fight against Serb fascists, and that there was also the death of some Serb civilians. The third frightening thesis is that the Ustashas are not villains, not Croatian scum, scum, but honorable fighters for Croatian freedom. The fourth frightening thesis is that the Ustasha greeting, the ominous greeting "for home ready" is an old Croatian greeting and that should continue to be used today. And finally, the fifth frightening thesis is that the largest death factory in the Balkans in World War II, Jasenovac, was essentially a work camp where theatre plays, played sports games, were held. There were only opponents of the regime brought in, there were individual murders, one part of the camper died of infectious diseases, but it was essentially a work camp in which the Geneva Conventions were respected, and that the death camp became after World War II during the communist regime. So, when you see this narrative in Croatia, it is clear that the Croatian people have not yet faced their Ustasha and genocide past, that the Croatian state is hate and intolerance towards Serbs and everything that is Serbian and that Croatia has not yet had the strength to become a modern European state in which the European values and universal values of human and minority rights of anti-fascism, rule of law and a clear attitude towards NDH and Ustasha movement will be truly respected. This also tells you recently published and humiliating for me the video of the Serbian National Council, related to the upcoming census of the population in Croatia, in which Serbs are called to close themselves in their apartments and houses, to turn off the lights, to turn on the computers and fill the form in the dark, to indicate in this form that they are Serbs, to speak Serbian, to write a Cyrillic letter and to send the form to the State Institute for Croatia. What does this Serbian National Council video tell us? Well, exactly what I said, it says that Croatia is trapped in its Ustasha past and that it is very difficult and dangerous, here for a full three decades, to be a Serb in Croatia, especially in Croatian cities. People fear in Croatia to declare that Serbs are precisely because of the dominant chauvinist atmosphere and because of the already mentioned historical revisionism. In Croatia, Serbs are called enemies, aggressors, the fifth column, a remethyl factor. In many Croatian cities and places, you can see tens of thousands of graphites that glorify the constitution, NDH and call and call for the killing of Serbs. At sports games, at concerts, one of the main promoters of the constitution in Croatia, singer Marko Perković Thompson, but also at concerts of other singers, it is quite common to hear the shouting of the Ustasha greeting "for home ready", to see Ustasha symbols such as the Ustasha letter "U", such as the Ustasha chess room that begins with the first white field, to hear the infamous, frightening cry "kill a Serb". It's a tragic fact that what I'm talking about and what someone might say - well, Linta, these are now marginal phenomena, it's the marginal right of Croatia, these are certain forces of the Catholic Church, veteran associations, some extreme intellectuals, etc. But you have a shameful, scandalous and anti-civilization decision, so-called The 2018 Council for Facing the Past, founded by the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, is composed of a number of prominent intellectuals in Croatia, who said that the Ustasha greeting "for home ready" was used during the NDH, but that it can be used on special occasions today. What did he do in this way Council for Facing the Past of the Croatian Government? So he essentially legalized the use of that greeting or a shameful, scandalous and anti-civilising decision by the High Court in Zagreb last May that the use of the Ustasha greeting - for a home ready in the infamous and war crimes song Marko Perkovic Tomson "Fight on Chavogs" is essentially not a hate speech, is not even a violation of public order and peace, because it is a criminal court, although it is a brutal crime of hatred which is defined by the Criminal Law of Croatia, but who is interested in this member of the Criminal Law of Croatia? What's important is that we as a state too? I think it is important that, in the next period of time, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delivers a resolution on the condemnation of genocide against Serbs, Roma, Jews in NDH, that this resolution clearly states that during NDH, a genocide was committed against the Serb people and that the Croatian state is called to historical and any other responsibility, that this resolution requires that all the sites where our people were killed during World War II be marked. According to some historians in the NDH area, there were more than 1,000 sites. The late historian Đuro Zatezlo was independently involved in investigating the deaths of our people during the NDH and he, as an individual, found that in the area of Like, Kordun and Banija there were 122 pits where Serbian civilians were thrown, killed in front of these pits and half-lived or even thrown into those pits, that there were 219 other mass strategists. So, in total, according to Djuri Zatezal in the area of Like, Kordun and Bani, there was a 341-stratelle or a abyss cave where our people were killed. Djuro Zatezalo did not include killing Serbs at home, in school buildings, in parish homes and other public buildings. Also, we should insist on this resolution to exhume the post-mortem remains of the Serb victims and to bury them in accordance with Christian customs, to seek that resolution to compensate for the descendants of Serb genocide victims, to determine the day of memory of the Serb victims of the NDH genocide. My personal opinion, i.e. Your debate that just on 10 April the day of the founding of the NDH genocide should be declared on the day of the Serbian victims of NDH or on the day of memory of the genocide of Serbs in NDH as a model for the state of Israel. In the state of Israel, every May for two minutes everything and people in factories and pupils and employees and pensioners and those who are cars and two minutes the whole of Israel honors the Jewish victims of the Holocaust. Also, I think it was important that, by modelling the state of Israel and the state of Armenia, we establish a special state institution that would in one planned, organised system way deal with the issue of genocide against the Serb people in NDH. It would be a memorial centre of genocide over Serbs in NDH that would have several goals. The first goal would be to continue the list of Serb victims and thus to fight against the revision of history and the radical reduction and denial of Serb genocide victims. Then, to get to know the world's public about the genocide committed against our people, that the centre collects documentation and all other sources that are related to genocide against our people in NDH. The memorial centre should have in its framework a scientific and research institute and library and museum and archives and permanent museum settings, and students from all over Serbia would be brought to the institution, there would have lessons related to Serb genocide victims and to the character of the NDH. There would also be foreign statesmen, world-famous intellectuals, as I repeat because of the countries of Israel, and as the state of Armenia does, related to the genocide committed against the Armenian people by the Turkish Empire in the First World War of 1915, especially by 1917. So, I welcome the efforts of the government of the Republic of Serbia to pay greater attention to the civilization's culture of the injured Serbian fighters and the Serb victims of genocide. I think that one of the ways in which a more efficient and planned struggle would be to establish, I repeat, the memorial centre of the Serb victims of NDH, to adopt a resolution on the condemnation of genocide against Serbs, Roma and Jews in NDH, and I finally think it would be important to pay the same attention to the Serbian victims in the 1990s wars, to have a special state institution, a memorial centre of Serb victims in the area of the former Yugoslavia, who would now be concerned with the question of the suffering of our people and who, along with other state institutions, would fight for the truth about the Serbian death of the 1990s. Also, the important struggle for World War II would be the struggle for international recognition of genocide against the Serb people in NDH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9109	I thank Mr. Linty. The next MP, Tomislav Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9110	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mr Selakovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if we compare our country today with the conditions and opportunities of 2012 we can freely say that these are two countries, different by the rate of development, different in terms of the past, but mostly different in terms of the future. Today Serbia is the leader of the region. He wants good relations with countries in the environment, with all countries and nations, but above all, he does everything he can to make such relationships happen. But we must, first of all, respect and remember the past and all those events that were good, beautiful, but unfortunately much more those who brought conflict and suffering. Our history is full of such events. She reminds us that we must protect our freedom, our independence, to cultivate a culture of memories of all those who laid their lives on the altar of the country. One of the legal mechanisms is agreements that have signed parties that were once in conflict. That is the agreement we are talking about today, an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on war memorials. First of all, it aims to enable decent retirement and eternal preservation of the memory of military faces and all civilian victims of the wars that were in these areas. We have just been with the German state and with the German people the most we have had conflicts in the last century and have suffered great sacrifices to preserve our independence, our freedom and to preserve our country. Every war brings out the worst from man, but the best. I'm going to talk today about two examples where the conflicted parties showed first of all a large amount of respect and military honor, and both events primarily refer to World War I events. The first is the story of Lieutenant Radoj Popovic, who is like a war hero, a prisoner transferred to his native Užice where the occupation authorities allowed him to feed in an officer's messiah in his hometown. He came in the uniform of a Serb soldier, a Serb officer, based on crutches, wearing a cock cap and a monogram of King Peter the First. It did not like one of the Austrian majors, and he ordered him to take off his hat, take off his Serbian uniform, and thus conditioned him to choose between honour and meals. He prefers to choose honor and hunger, sick, but above all, proudly continued to walk the streets of his native Uzic. Soon this news reached the Austrian commander of the city who understood Lieutenant Popovic's heroic act and ordered his soldiers to allow this brave Serb army lieutenant to be fed in a cafeteria in his native Uzic. This resulted in an unusual friendship between two officers of the two opposing armies, two sides. When Lieutenant Popovic went to visit him on a sick visit, the Austrian commander of the city came and asked him if he had any wishes. His last wish was to be buried according to Serbian military customs and the city's commander has heard his wish but for health reasons he has not allowed the Serb soldiers to be there in addition to the stage of this Serbian brave officer, but has ordered them to be Austrian soldiers, but dressed in a military uniform of Austria's, in a solemn uniform,coats. There were more than 1,500 Uzicians at the funeral who escorted a brave Serbian officer on the eternal journey, and this event remains to be convinced for more than a century. The second example, said counterpart Jevtovic Vukojicic, refers to October 1915 when the Germans tried to surround the city of Belgrade and when 39 Serbian military members braved the Serbian capital for two nights and two days. When they ran out of ammunition, they defended the honor and pride of our capital with the bats and bayonets, and all 39 soldiers laid their lives on the altar of their homeland. More than 200 Germans lost their lives in this battle and the German authorities when they heard about the event decided to raise a large monument to the Serb soldiers and to arrange a German cemetery in the place where this loss was made. In 1985, German Chancellor Helmut Kol visited Belgrade and also laid crowns on this site, thus showing great respect for Serbian victims and all those soldiers who lost their lives. Today, it is a common practice for countries once in the past to organize together and to mark together through the celebrations certain events in which they were connected in the past and they were in conflict. In July of this year, at the invitation of the Embassy of the Republic of Austria, Serbia, representatives of the Serbian government laid a wreath at the Austrian cemetery military on the day of the dead, and it was an opportunity to honor all Austrian soldiers who died in the fighting for Belgrade. At the Serbian Embassy in Germany's initiative, the German War Cemetery Association restored a monument located at the site of a former camp near Dresden. More than 4,000 war prisoners from Serbia were transported to the camp. Unfortunately, 176 of them have never returned home. They died of forced labour, sickness and exhaustion. The ceremony was held on September 1st of this year with numerous officials, with the sounds of God of justice and there far in the performance of a military orchestra from Dresden. In this way, the Saxony province honored the Serb prisoners who were in the camp on their territory. These examples from the past and the present are a good example of how we respect each other and respect each other, regardless of all the conflicts that were in the past, that we must respect our own but also others' victims, to make bridges of co-operation and friendship to mutual satisfaction and benefit. All of us look forward here in Serbia to visit Chancellor Merkel who will be staying in our country on Monday and who will have more meetings with our President, Alexander Vukic. Today Germany is our country's largest foreign trade partner and we are recording more than 25% of the exchange growth, which I expect will be more than six billion euros this year. Today, more than 400 German companies employ 70,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We've got more projects to do together. I will repeat only the project of dual education, but also many other projects, because in this way we defend the interests of our country and create even better conditions for raising co-operation to a higher level. I believe that this agreement that we are about to adopt here today, which concerns war memorials, will further influence the improvement of relations between the two countries and the two governments. The second agreement I want to talk about is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus, which concerns the area of protection against disasters. We all know the consequences of the great disasters. For the last ten years, we've had floods, earthquakes, everything that could have hit us, indeed left one sad picture, great material damage, unfortunately, and victims. It is a very important area that we can co-operate with other countries, especially countries that are friendly, which have not admitted so-called. Kosovo, to exchange experiences, to buy equipment together, to carry out certain exercises together, to reduce and mitigate the consequences of such events. What I also want to point out at this point is the fact that this year we participated as a state through the Emergency Sector to help our friends in Greece. A delegation of firefighters was led by a man from Sremska Mitrovica, my fellow citizen, Mr. Nomic, who, along with firemen from Sremska Mitrovica and other cities of our country, courageously and day by day, defended the citizens of Greece and thus made his contribution and showed and proved that the Serbian people were solid and wanted to help other peoples and other countries. Finally, I would like to point out that I would be very pleased to support all agreements that are on the agenda today and to take the opportunity to take on behalf of all MPs and, in my personal name, to congratulate the 141nd and 142nd class of the Military Academy, who will tomorrow, together with colleagues of the 7th class of the Medical Faculty of VMA, take an oath here under the salary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and become Serbian officers. Let them serve Serbia's homeland with honor and success. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9111	Thank you. The People's Messenger Ivan Ribaq has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9112	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, first of all, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to highlight the sincerest expressions of compassion with the friendly people of Northern Macedonia for the tragedy that hit them when a large number of people died after the fires at the Kovid hospital in Tetovo. Dear friends, Serbia is with you. Let me get back to the subject. German Emperor Wilhelm, who in his day was a personification of then nationalism, imperialism and opposition to Serbia, said of the Serbian people – a pity that the small people are not my ally. The new Vienna-based "Gri Preses" newspaper wrote about the Serb people in 1918, and I quote -- it will remain a riddle that the remains of the Serb army that were saved before the MacKenz army could later be trained to fight. It is proof that the Serb soldier belongs to the most powerful warriors this world fire has ever seen. Marshall MacKenzen told the Serbian army – I find it unusual to appreciate and love you from Shumadia, you are a heroic people full of honor and pride, a people of great and great future. This is just part of the praise of the Serbian army's heroism throughout history. Unfortunately, this heroism has always been followed by great sacrifices and the most expensive price a nation can pay. There are people who say, "You can bend me, but you won't break me, and there are those who say," you can break me, but you won't bend me. I hope we don't miss wisdom in the future, let them bend us a little bit, but never break us again. That we no longer need to be praised for being fearless and courageous warriors, but for good scientists, athletes, businessmen, and that's the policy this party is running, and that's almost guaranteed. Today, there is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic on war memorials. It should be said that in World War I and World War II, Germans and Serbs were enemies, but that did not prevent them from being respected in the war, but also later. German military leader Von Macanzev ordered that in 1915 a monument be erected on Kostunica by Serb heroes who fell there in battle with the German Imperial Army. It is little known that the monument was erected within the German military cemetery complex, which was in place until 1944. It should be mentioned that our blessed starter, Vladika Nikolaj Velimirovic, even during the war, even the German cemetery. This monument dedicated to Serbian heroes in the Kosutnjak is unique in the world as the kind of honor the enemy gives to the enemy. Dear citizens, an agreement that is behind us today in order to allow for a decent retirement and an extenuation of memory of military persons and civilian victims of war that died or died during the wars, as well as the preservation of the place where they were buried in accordance with the Geneva Conventions on the Protection of Victims, since August 1949 and the addition of that convention since June 1977. We can all just hope and that this will be the last agreement with such a painful topic, which ultimately brings neither the defeated nor the winners, but that there will be many other agreements that will develop co-operation, develop tolerance and friendship and anything else that makes it better and easier for our two great nations to live. Dear citizens, you'll allow me a few more minutes so I can look back on something that has nothing to do with this agenda subject, but it's important to the public. Namely, he would refer to these tragic reactions of opposition vedets following the response of the Europarliamentaries, about their demands for the upcoming election conditions. Namely, demeaning their own country by whineing for the help of Europarliamentaries, to help them to come to power, thinking that our friends from Europe will now undo those currents of modern democracy, that the government will come exclusively with the program, in elections, who gets more votes and now they can change those rules by means of magic sticks and lead to power by all those who cannot cross the census and who expected to be able to meet them, little is to say, fantasmagorious conditions and demands of the type, give us now some special ministry of elections, let us, by our own wishes and intentions, edit the RTS programme, etc. Insulting and respected our friends from Europe, who have been underestimated by intelligence, believing that they will meet these requirements. The strongest chapels of the opposition led by freedom and justice, with their friends, partners, like-minded, will declare that as we see it, it will declarely reject all the conditions that the MEPs will bring to them. And in this whole process of moaning, crying on our fates accusing this authority of being dictatorial, that it's autocratic, tyrannical minority, terrorist, our political insinuators are now looking at our friends from Europe for the same reason. Just as their boss, Mr. Gilas, is now carefully selecting a political moment when he will attack Angela Merkel, with all his strength he accuses her of being the same autocrat and tyrant as our president, because he thinks he has extraordinary and mutual respect for our president's relationship with our country. Now we can make a sound conclusion that if anyone says anything affirmative about our country, that he is an automatic bastard, that he is illiterate, uncultural, dictator, as they now say about Mrs Merkel, as they say about Victor Orban, Milos Zeman, Vladimir Putin, sheik Bin Zaeda, who are our sincere and respected friends who look at each way to praise and say a nice word about Serbia, which makes the Serbian people immeasurably grateful to them. So, all those who dare and gain the courage to say anything good about our country and our government, they're no good, so logically raises the question of who's doing it? Dear citizens, those who will accuse Serbia in all ways and publicly present it as being Uganda during the time of Idi Amin Dade or do not give God as if it were Nazi Germany during Adolf Hitler. So we can see on their portals how they are delivering Croatian news and texts, how Vucic, who is now being instructed by the generalisation of Serbs as a hegemonist people, who was born in Austria, will then continue her continuity through communist ideology, here and now mention her, and say that he is now after he has conquered Montenegro, so that he will secede part of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and he will probably be able to continue to surround New Zealand, even though a man loses his voice to say in every show, in every interview, that he respects the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all the countries for which he is being attacked. To respect independence and Montenegro, to respect independence and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia and all other countries, and to exclusively want partnership, peace, prosperity and progress with those countries. Well, isn't it a respected citizen, such a visionary and well-intentioned initiative as the open Balkans confirms it? But if you suspect he is, return all his speeches and interviews in the previous nine years, as much as he is in power, and see if there is at least one, the only word where he said he considered Montenegro to be his governess or that he wants Republika Srpska to secede from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's no such word, but there's only that gay sentiment that says a thousand times a repeated lie becomes true. Our opposition friends make up so much more and repeat that I really don't know how they're not ashamed. They are also doing well by those who say that on their cable televisions, there is not a single sentence or word for ten years before how many SNS are in power, they did not say that anything was well done and that 99% of their shows are very often starting with a sentence – we are all aware that nothing is wrong in this country, giving ourselves the right to have most citizens decide what is good and what is not. Also good are those who call for the banishment of the Serbian Orthodox Church from its hearth and who have done everything to humiliate and harm the Republic of Serbia. I just took advantage of this word - injuries, because that word is loaded with great emotions, and as Makijaveli said - there is not much room for emotion in politics, but that is exactly the word I used because it hurt every citizen of our country when the country, when our brother Montenegro first recognised the independence of the falsely declared state of Kosovo, twice, thank you, Mr. Risticevic, when it sent its soldiers to celebrate that criminal action "Storm", when it adopted in its parliament a declaration of genocide in Srebrenica and twice. Here, now that he is trying to destroy the SPC by wanting to create some other forms of Orthodox church in Montenegro, then the Orthodox Church of the Montenegrin people all in order to further disintegration of the Serbian National Corps in order to fergment the Serbian national Corps into parts after which it would be easier to manipulate. Also, I must stress that those who define what Mr. Cirjakovic defined in his coin – Autošovnists, members of so-called "Cirjakovic". Elite, I said to members of the so-called because the essential members of the intellectual cultural elite would never say, I quote - without being ready for street fights there is no victory over this regime, or that dialogue with the authorities is like talking to a pickpocket, that on the roof of the Presidency of the Republic of Serbia and the President saw Belivuk, and that there must be a rematch after the arrival of the Party of Freedom and Justice to power. Respected citizens of Serbia, if it weren't tragic, if it weren't sad, it would be very funny and funny. Why are these all of whom I quote, why are they like respected citizens, and this authority and all those who dare to support it are not? Because none of their actions can be better than this authority. They have no knowledge, no skill, no courage, and most importantly neither the programs nor the ideas to offer to the citizens and to say – this we will do what will be better for the government than it has done before. They don't know anything better than to insult at a person and to touch on what's decent, moral people don't touch, if it's family. We see, for example, how they attack the children of the President of the Republic for no reason whatsoever, but also purpose. First, the continuity of the power of Alexander Vukic and the SNS is so long that it is certain in this continuity and at the time of its government to do something that is not good, as all men would do except of course to them infallible. Then why don't they get caught up in something, if they can find it, which is not good and they attack it for it? What is his children's fault for running this country or for the politics of the Republic of Serbia? What does this have to do with politics and that every day that child attacks on the newspapers? There's nothing, but it's the only way to weaken this government and the president himself, because with an idea, a program or anything else he can't. This is why low, poor and honest people are used unacceptable things to try to lower the results that are immeasurable in Serbia's modern history, which are, I will only say the current ones -- that it is projected and built 1,200km of highways, hundreds of regional and local roads, that in each municipality it is revitalised and modernised by traffic, that the largest project of construction of a sewage network of wastewater and regional dumps is launched, that a project of building a Belgrade metro, revitalisation of Danube ports, etc., etc. Respected citizens of Serbia, as they are now spreading to the trees and stones representatives of Europarliamentaries who have not responded to their democratic demands, as they have attacked US Ambassador, Mr Godfrey, because he said he loves Serbia and respects this authority, as their TV leaders wonder that suddenly Serbia has good relations with America, so in the coming period, brutal lies and fiction will be used to mock all of us and to shake your trust in this government. But, dear citizens, don't trust them either, in the end, don't trust us, believe what you can see and compare what it was like when they were in power and what it's like since we stepped on her forehead. The result is known. Then the 1% censorship will not be enough for them, and fortunately for this country and this people, it will slowly disappear from the political scene, and the Serbian people and history will be their judges. I wish you, dear ministers, much happiness in the coming period, because you will be exposed to great pressures from various centres of power, but I have no doubt that you will find strength, courage, perseverance, as so far and find ways to overcome all these pressures, in the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9113	I thank Mr. Fish. The next is MP Viktor Jevtovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9114	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk about a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the area of disaster protection. Faced with a time when the solidarity of the whole world was seen in action when Covid-19 killed millions of lives, the awareness of the necessary co-operation, solidarity and the fight against this monster was best seen. Therefore, this agreement is of paramount importance, in line with civil protection mechanisms, and also respecting the UN's efforts in the area of disaster prevention and mitigation as the main international acts adopted in this area, as well as the EU's mechanism, as well as other organisations, in order to protect against disaster. This agreement lays down a framework for co-operation in the prevention of disasters, as well as assistance, mitigation and removal of its consequences. The competent authorities for the implementation of this agreement are the ministry and our Emergency Sector, and on the other hand the Ministry of the Republic of Cyprus. The deal is another indicator of the good relations and success of the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For us, it is also important that Cyprus is one of the countries that has not recognised the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo. The indicator of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic to other countries was seen in the pandemic era, when we helped the entire region, and the EU member states, through respirators, vaccines, monetary aid, as seen after the catastrophic earthquakes in Croatia or the last, fire-status that affected Greece, when brave Serbian firefighters joined in helping the brotherly people of Greece. It is a policy of solidarity and benevolence run by the Serbian Progressive Party and Aleksandar Vukic. I cannot help but look back on the proposal for an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany on war memorials. Although I stand behind everything my colleagues said, and I am ahead of the arrival of German Chancellor Angela Merkel, on 13 September of this year, and with a reminder of the huge support she provided to Serbia in implementing reforms, many investments from Germany, which is also Serbia's most significant trading partner, where only in the first quarter of this year, 25.1% more was achieved in trade with Germany compared to the previous year. This exchange has a value of 3.570 billion euros. And not to mention the fact that compared to a period of 10 years before Alexander Vukic was in German companies, there were 17,000 people, and today that number was 71 thousand. Our export growth increased by 300% compared to 10 years ago. It is the policy of progress and the fight for better Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic. Because, a proud, successful, stable Serbia, which is no longer humiliated, on its knees and finesse in the hands of foreign services, tycoon and mafia, but sovereign, brave, dignified and worthy of its ancestors goes forward. Speaking of disasters, has Serbia been hit by a larger disaster than the yellow tycoon company, headed by Dragan Gilas and his looting phalanges, which instead of fires put out factories and businesses, laid off the people and took the country into an ambis bankruptcy, leaving them with no hope? But they put hope into their overseas bank accounts, real estate, and humiliated Serbian citizens to the limit. Because it's their policy-making manner. I don't want to talk about hate for Serbia's progress. Insolent in their senses, occupied narcissists and hohschatler whose only motto and political hate programme for Alexander Vukic, his family, and most Serbian citizens who said in democratic elections what they thought of them, are now seeking electoral conditions that they did not even consider providing to anyone during their regime. In their self-centered behaviour, they managed to overcome themselves, to no longer suit them, not even the European Parliament, which supported them. The only way out is through violence. In this elemental madness, they were joined by a technical and technological accident titled "We drown Belgrade", with the destroyer Zelenovic, that in their natural habitat the ruins attacked projects of capital importance and from Belgrade on water, which now flashes, they were more suited to the mockery and junkyard, because they probably found themselves in that habitat, and they would take Serbia there too. While Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS are at the head of Serbia, they will be able to see that mockery only when they look at themselves in the mirror, because Serbia is going forward, regardless of all the brutal blows it receives, roaring, led by Alexander Vukic, decisive steps for a better future for all our children. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9115	I thank Mr. Yevtovic. Next is MP Ilija Živocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9116	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, I will talk today about the agreement between the Serbian-Cyprus government in the area of disaster protection. When it comes to this agreement, it is important to note that it has come from mutual interest, which only confirms the strong and friendly ties between Serbia and Cyprus, which we assured from the visit to Cyprus by Minister Selakovic, the agreed trilateral meetings of Serbia-Cyprus-Greece, as well as a very successful visit to Minister Vulin Cyprus when this proposal came up. The friendship between Serbia and Cyprus is extremely strong, which is a testimony to the fact that, despite all the pressures, Cyprus has not recognised the self-proclaimed independence of KIM. When it comes to relations with Cyprus, it should be said that during the visit of Minister Vulin, agreements on border control and irregular migration have also been discussed. I sincerely hope that these agreements will come to life, because Cyprus can learn a lot about migration movements because Cyprus is several borders ahead of us, so that any timely information on the number, as well as other information such as origin, average age, gender, general mood, groups of diseases and other migrants coming can mean a lot. On this occasion as someone whose security as a scientific discipline is a basic field of action, I want to thank you on behalf of all citizens of Minister Vulin for this initiative. Also, I think that the involvement of Serbia's MUP on migrants in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is much better and more timely than when Minister Vulin is headed by the MUP. That's where I'm talking about removing migrants from illegal hotels, parks, illegal camps in the woods in collective cents, where they usually belong. Of course, with minimal use of coercion, with a mandatory translator and respect for all human rights. The importance of this agreement with Cyprus is certainly education and exchange of knowledge, as well as joint exercises of emergency teams. Since Cyprus has indeed had fatal fires in recent years, their teams unfortunately have great experience in overcoming those that they can share with our firefighters and rescuers who have the determination and willingness to demonstrate by helping colleagues in the region. On this basis, under Article 2 of Article 10 of the Agreement, the development and production of equipment for protection and rescue and for third markets, especially the EU, which is part of Cyprus, Israel, with which Cyprus has certain contracts and signed agreements, can be achieved jointly. The exceptional part of the agreement is the easy transport of rescue teams and equipment, as well as accommodation and health insurance. As much as this sounds banal to some citizens, exactly this sort of thing, just this kind of thing, bureaucratic, were very often an obstacle for firefighters to arrive on time in a particular place, and thus there was a unnecessary threat to safety and the population, but also equipment. These agreements go beyond that. Otherwise, in order to adequately deal with emergency situations with education, it must start from early legs, or kindergarten, to begin teaching children that a police officer is their friend, that he is there to help in every situation. It's terribly wrong, it's my opinion, scaring the kids with the police. Accordingly, I would like to commend the Vrbas Police Station and Lieutenant Colonel Gvodjevic, who organised a theatre performance for children called "My Comrade Officer". That's how Vrbas started their education at the right time for these children. I hope the other police stations follow that example, because children are affected from the third to the sixth year. Between the ages of three and six, a child's personality is formed. When we talk about disasters, there are disasters in which there is no help. These are the moral failures of individuals and their moral disasters. The best example of such a moral disaster is Marinika Tepic, an alias of "coca" from Morovic, who has shown us that the desire to conquer power can be completely clouded by individuals, such as her and her boss, Đilas. In this painful desire to come to power, and in the absence of any political or economic programme, Marinika and its provocators continue to call on citizens to overthrow legitimately in the street through violence, the elections elected by the power of most citizens. Every day she attaches such posts to social networks and calls on citizens to rebellion, protests, disobedience, etc., and this time she said – this time call it whatever you want, but we're going to the end. Here, you can see one of her last tweets. So if they don't stay in dialogue, they don't care how the dialogue ends. She calls, she says - her shoes are ready for protests, rebellion and disobedience. Now I warn her followers – what do you think the one who betrayed the heads of the six parties, whose loyalty she swore to, do you really think that she will honor you, the one who is her bodyguard and the man who served for the dirty work, who was her right hand, dumped him in haste? Do you think he'll respect you? Do you think she'll go along with your children to swallow tear gas and be with them if the police are forced to do as last year, God forbid, use force to prevent the burning and looting of the assembly where we are today? Will a person like Marinika Tepic who goes to the sea with a bunch of security guards to push her back instead of your child, or will she, along with Gilas, hire the biggest bodyguard he's ever found, take him to safety until they pass the unloved scenes, and she will advertise and complain about your children via Twitter? Further away from her goes that professor of pedophilia, the pardon law, who called the Belivuk monster his brother and loved to kiss him. This moral zero that escaped the polygraph as a devil from the cross has repeatedly threatened all people who are not supporters of violence to spend the rest of their lives in custody. Apart from them, one of those who would like to see civil war in Serbia, hit a brother, neighbour to neighbor so that he could master a certain Jovo Bakic who considers himself an intellectual elite, who openly calls for street war, a street war after the elections, because, as he admits, the opposition cannot otherwise come to power. This is one of his last statements – without the willingness to fight dangerous street after the election there is no victory over this regime. The wolf Jeremic trapped in his body who is such as he has never worked physically at school, when he finally realized that he could not be the leader of the riot, nor the leader of the hooligans, especially after he was forced into past riots in front of the Assembly with the slapping of the same hooligans he tried to attract, continued to, in the way only a man could disable, insult the extremely vulgar dictionaries. He was the last in all Serbian citizens who voted or called SNS members, here, look for yourself, I won't express myself, it's not our level, but Serbian citizens can see how he called them. Today I ask all citizens of Serbia not to buy these people's stories. Their only goal is to use you as they have used their associates, but also each other. Just remember how many parties these people have changed, how many coalitions they've made, and they've all parted because of the abnormal desire of all of them, and Gilas and Jeremic and the Marines, that they're in charge of that coalition, that they rule. Today I ask you, honourable citizens, don't become their puppets, don't let them use you for their personal wealth. Support the country's president in Serbia's most important fight over the past 100 years. Today, as in World War I, it is decided whether we will be an independent and independent Serbia or a foreign protectorate whose deputies would be Gilas and Jeremic. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9117	The word has been issued by MP Milan Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9118	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected fellow citizens, is today ahead of us several extremely important agreements, but I would like to put the accent on an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. I'd like to say a few words about him. In the previous course of the discussion we heard really some extraordinary things, extraordinary discussions, above all my predecessors, Linta, colleague Vukojičić Jeftović, but also other colleagues. It's very hard to say something new, not say it again. In my presentation, I'll probably repeat some facts. I think we've been silent for a long time, even too long. It's not much for each of us in this room to repeat some of the important facts that we've been forced to forget for decades. Our country has a centuries-old tradition, a country in which millions of lives are built in. A country which, like a few others in the world, has expensively paid for its independence, its freedom to do what is most valuable, which is the lives of its citizens. We owe these people who gave their lives for Serbia eternal gratitude. People who have built their lives into the freedom of our country, who have made it possible for us to be on our own today. We will be eternally grateful to them, and the least we can do for them is make sure that they rest peacefully and with dignity wherever they are buried. To protect the old and build new monuments. Unlike some of the earlier times when the state is very inert, I can say freely, misrepresentingly treated the greats of our past, but also to all other citizens, today the situation is different by 180 degrees. Today, the state repays itself to its greats, but also to those individuals who are less known, or completely unknown to the general public, by raising monuments, by giving their names to squares and streets. This monument, I think, is a very important step to ensure that the war memorials of Serb soldiers are protected and preserved, in particular in the territory of Germany. Until a few years ago, more precisely by 2012, during the former regime of Tadic, Gilas, and others, if I didn't list them now, our greats were neglected, we shouldn't have marked significant events from our past, only so that someone from the region might not be offended, but therefore, on behalf of the Serbian state, we apologized to everyone and for everything, trying again to tell someone in the region. Such a Serbia was, I can say, a desirable partner because it was economically destroyed, weak and military and political, and as I said, economically, and did not represent, first of all, an economic competitor to anyone. She was desirable to everyone. She didn't bother anyone. Chairman, I would like to ask, perhaps the Serbian victims here are not important, because of the citizens of Serbia, for a little peace in the hall. While war criminals who killed about 2,000 Serbs in the Crime Action "Storms", expelled about 280,000 Serbs in Zagreb, welcomed as heroes, the former regime of Djilas, Tadic, and others, our people, our officers, who defended the Serb people, as my fellow respected counterpart Milimir Vujadinovic said yesterday, persecuted as beasts, arrested, extradited to various white-world signs, thus repaying them for defending their people and for defending their country. It was also silent, about Jasenovac, Jadovna, Storm, Flash, because it seems that the former regime, as we say in one of our popular home movies, led the password "Jura will forgive you for beating you", everything will be fine, let's move on. Today, thanks to Alexander Vukic, Serbia is growing up to be an economic leader in the region, and therefore Serbia is bothering some from the region and some from God within us, who would return to power again, to continue to enrich where they left off in 2012. Also, Serbia is strong enough today to help its people in the region, primarily economically and culturally. Serbia is strong enough today to remember its victims from Jasenovac, NATO aggression, not campaigning, how it was used in times of former government, but NATO aggression, because it was aggression. We are proud to talk with pride today about our heroes, from Koshar, Paštrik, Gorozup, and as I said, unlike those who ten years ago, those people who were on the first line of defense of our country arrested and extradited to The Hague tribunal, today heroes from Koshar have a place of their own. The dead fighters have a monument on which President Vukic also laid his wreath this year, and the veterans from Koshar have taken place in the recent military exercises, because according to him, to challenge some why they are there, he replied when they were good to defend their country, they are good to be with the president of the country's military exercises and, in the end, not to take any more time, I can say that this is the relationship of a serious state to its greats, that Serbia is stronger, that our people remain in their country, that they do not seek their happiness in some other countries. In the end, I will also support, of course, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany as well as the previous two agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9119	I thank Mr. Jugovic. People's MPs, please be patient for another three minutes. The next MP is Luke Kebar. You have three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9120	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Hardisic. Respected leadership of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished Minister Selakovic with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia. At today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about a very important agreement, which is a war memorial agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany. Namely, this is a significant comprehensive agreement, which will arrange this matter for the protection of military, civil cemeteries, as well as war memorials that we have, regardless of the nationality of course. That's very important. Why? Because for one human, first of all, the reasons in a friendly spirit we want to perpetuate these memories of all our victims who were killed in the war, both in our premises and in the space of the Federal Republic of Germany. This is a comprehensive agreement, meaning that these contracting parties, Serbia and Germany, will oblige to maintain these monuments continuously, in accordance with regulations, offices, and memorials. I want to thank Mr. Minister, Mr. Selakovic for mentioning this monument on Ban's Hill at the beginning of today's session, and I come from Ban's Hill, so it's very important to me. Namely, German military leader Augustus von Macenzen is an enemy general and he is, knowing that we are one great army, that we are one great nation and he was so impressed with that resistance that we gave, we lost that battle, but he was so impressed and surprised that he decided to build and build a monument to an enemy army, of course for him. I think it's a unique example in the world, that the enemy army, that their general builds a rival army monument. That monument is on Ban's Hill. It reads "Hier ruined Sirbishe Helden", meaning "This is where Serbian heroes rest," Serbian knights, it is very important. He recognized this Serbian spirit, this Serb spirit, that Serbian heart that beats strongly, that Serb spirit that is not broken. I would like to point out that these relations, with the Federal Republic of Germany, although they have not been good through our history today, are on one correct level, I can say even a friendly level, are raised to a higher level. Here is also the report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2020, and as much as 5.3 billion euros was total trade in goods, and we have more than 400 German companies employing more than 70,000 workers. Our president, Aleksandar Vukic, announced that on September 13th, Chancellor Angela Merkel will be in Serbia, and by the end of the year, Ursula von der Lajen, which means that two of Germany's most powerful politicians will be in Serbia by the end of the year. I would like to conclude that we, led by our President, Alexander Vukic, will fight hard to strengthen Serbia in all fields, especially in the field of foreign policy, international relations and the world's reputation will be even greater and stronger. Long live Serbia, lived by our President Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9121	Thank you, Mr. Kebara. With this we conclude a joint single search on the proposals for the law from points one to three of the agendas. I thank, of course, Mr. Secretary with his associates and all the MPs. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday 10 September 2021, starting at 15.00 hours, as the day for voting on the agenda of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the 12th session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-10-0.u9122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 155 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement (points 1 to 3 of the agenda) I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3), point 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on war memorials, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote: a total of 161, for 160, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Second item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the area of disaster protection, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Finalising vote: 162, for 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Third item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Decision 2014/2 amending Annex I of the Convention on the Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Finalising vote: 162, for 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before the session is concluded, I would just like to inform you that I have called a 13th extraordinary session, as delivered to you for 13th September 2021, at 10.00 hours with one item on the agenda – a bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly conclude the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Thank you.
