ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 14th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 159 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11565	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, was held in Tirana yesterday unremembered, I would say, a diplomatic scandal, when in the streets of the Albanian capital supporters Berisha organised demonstrations, of course, with the help of Kurti, against the regional initiative "open Balkans" and its leader, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. During that time, Albanian extremists burned Serbian flags and planned to attack a column of official cars to prevent the summit from being held. Serbia has consistently advocated peace and stability policy and has shown its friendly face towards the region when it was most difficult at the time of the Kovid 19 pandemic. The pandemic has still stressed the importance of this initiative, which needs to enable the region to co-operate uninterruptedly, a region without passports and borders, free flow of people, goods, services and capital, making the region stronger, united, and making the Balkans a more competitive and attractive place for new investments above all. Given that all the economies of the region have been affected and still feel the consequences caused by Kovid, this initiative is of an immeasurable importance for the recovery of the economic region, i.e. the economy of the region, because we would certainly recover more quickly together. Serbia sees this initiative as an opportunity to see the future in the past, and therefore it is truly and devoted to it. So the three states decided not to turn to the past, but to look at the present and the future, and above all in the interest of their citizens, in the interest of every city, in the interest of every village in which our citizens live. This commitment has been determined by a number of signed agreements with Northern Macedonia and Albania so far. What happened yesterday in Tirana is unacceptable and unfortunately shows that some would be very happy to go back to the past whatever it was. It is obvious that someone is disturbed by economically strong and stable Serbia, Serbia, which is today an indisputable factor of stability in the region and leader above all by economic growth in the region. Serbia has always advocated and will always advocate a policy of peace and co-operation, not conflict policy. This may have been expected of Albanian extremists, but a similar situation happened in 2019 at the very beginning of the establishment of the "open Balkans", but what really worries is the complete lack of a response from the international community that should maintain regional integration and progress of the Western Balkans along the way. Isn't Europe up to regional development and faster European integration? This initiative is now aimed at raising all capacities of our region. On the other hand, Brussels is the one who daily sets out different requirements for Serbia both in terms of European integration and in terms of Belgrade and Pristina's relations, and is now silent, is not advertised even though it is an unremembered diplomatic precedent. I don't want to imagine how, say, Brussels and the whole West, and the United States, as far faster and more involved when it comes to the Western Balkans, especially in the past few days and months, I can't imagine how they would react if something like this happened in Belgrade. Unfortunately, we are once again witnessing these double arches and double standards when it comes to the international community. Condemning first and foremost yesterday's scandal on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group and an attempt to attack President Vukic I would like to ask the Foreign Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia what position will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia take after yesterday's scandalous diplomatic incident in Tirana try to bring Serbia down before the sacred burning of Serbian flags and demonstrations against Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11566	Thank you. The word is Amelia Lukač Zoranic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11567	Thank you. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, respected leadership, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will today exercise my right and ask a few questions I expect to receive answers soon. The first issue concerns respect for the Law on Public Enterprises, which was published in the 2016 Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, with changes and additions from 2019. In particular, it concerns a member of 52 who regulates the question of officials in public enterprises. The law stipulates that the director's office may be appointed until the appointment of the director of a public undertaking after a public competition has been carried out, but also states that the period of performance of the director's duties cannot be longer than one year. It is also stated in the next view that the same person cannot be twice appointed as acting director. What we have on the ground is exactly a violation of this law for the simple reason that in certain cities, in particular in this case in the town of Novi Pazar, and I assume that such a situation is happening in other cities and municipalities in our country, the following happens – that one and the same person has been appointed as the performer for not just one year, but four years consecutively the same person is appointed as the performer of the duty first in the Public Business “Parking Service”, and then after that, for the second year after that, in the public enterprise “City Cleanness” and this is not a unique example. In particular, on the other hand, we also have V.D. Director of the Institute for Urbanism of Novi Pazar, the Institute for Urbanism, as I said, the Public Enterprise “City Cleanness” and the Public Enterprise “Parking Service”. In particular, the statutes of these public enterprises violate the very provisions of the statutes, as I said, and the provisions of the law. I really expect the competent ministry to launch the initiative and investigate these allegations that I am currently making and therefore to make a decision to suspend the competition, i.e. the decision to repeal these persons, the decision of the City of Novi Pazar Assembly, in particular, which was elected yesterday at its session by these persons to serve as public undertakings in office, as director. The second issue directly concerns Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications Mrs Tatjana Matic, who praised the efficiency of local self-government in the town of Novi Pazar on behalf of the resolution ministry. She said that in the realization of existing projects she cited strategically and strategically important projects that would be recognizable when it comes to the town of Novi Pazar, especially that they would speed up the city's tourist offer to Novi Pazar and make it even more attractive in the future. At that time, the minister said the following -- we primarily think about investment when we talk about "Bezistan", "Old Charsia", which should be the subject of reconstruction. He says that one of the key advantages of Novi Pazar is sports youth tourism. I specifically ask the Minister's question – did she see the northern part of the Bastion, the bed of New Pazar which has already begun to collapse and which is dangerous for the passersby of the city of Novi Pazar, for all those who move that part of the charter? In addition, I would ask the question – in which strategic documents mentioned the realisation of these projects, since the government will participate in the realisation itself, I would like to know when the realisation is planned, what strategic documents are listed? When it comes to the city of Novi Pazar budget for 2022, they have not allocated a single dinar of funds for this type of capital investment, nor cited it as one of the capital investments that should pay attention in the coming period. The last question concerns the Prime Minister's office. In fact, the prime minister has paid special attention to southern Serbia over the past few years. Systemic changes in agriculture, as well as support for domestic business, are listed. As a result, it is the first honey house, where the Alliance of Beekeeping Organisations of Serbia launched a project with the support of the Prime Minister's cabinets and in 2018 set off for a very interesting business venture. In fact, they have already invested and exported honey, a domestic product, which is very productive for the municipality of Rač and for all beekeepers in the district. The project was supported by government funds worth 50 million dinars. My question would be: does the Government plan to invest in Sandzak, in particular, whether the implementation of projects is of benefit to small people, i.e. micro-planning communities already listed in some strategic documents, since we know that in Novi Pazar and in other municipalities of Sjenica, Prepolje, Priboj, Nova Varoš, Tutin, there are a very large number of small entrepreneurs, i.e. a small labor that is highly developed? Thus, if we had the opportunity to implement such or similar projects in that part of Serbia, the number of people employed would indeed increase, or the unemployment rate would decrease, and thus the productivity of the whole region and our country would be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11568	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word since there's no one else in the system? Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11569	Dear colleagues and colleagues, only a blind man or someone who is not well-intentioned doesn't notice and see that Serbia has a long period of time being pressured to let Serbia go of its history, to forget its past, to allow some of the world's whites to write history to it, and to show how it was and what it was. That's why we have today both the tortures around Rack and Srebrenica, where these criminals are trying to justify their crimes, the crimes they committed to the Serbian people by bombing in 1999 and to overturn history and turn out to be the victim, in fact, the criminal, and that the criminal is positive. If someone allows himself the luxury of leaving education and education to foreigners he knowingly destroyed both his history and his past, unfortunately in a short period of time he will destroy his own country. We have an office, a textbook office, which is currently on its knees and which is in a very difficult situation. We've left the textbook market to strangers and they're raising our children. No wonder in books we have an event in our history where it's said -- that the Janitors were positive, that it was very good and healthy for our generations, that it was actually a specialization abroad. It's something we can't allow. That's why I'm asking the government of the Republic of Serbia - what about the Bookbooks Act? The obligation of both the government and the state and all of us is to extend our hand to the Institute, to enable the Institute to do a job that has worked very well and quality in the previous decades, to choose authors who will be honest, honest, moral, above all who will be patriots and to write what is and how is to be done, and not to leave it to the unholy individuals who are willing to betray their country for a bunch of money, to defile their cheeks and to write all sorts of nonsense. I think and I believe that the government will put very quickly in the process of this Bookbook Act and that we will all help this Bureau stand on its feet to be the force it used to be. Let me remind you, this Bureau was giving 50% of its profits to the budget. About the Bureau so much. Now I'm going to ask you a question for the President of the Assembly. Mr. President, you are here in the Assembly among the employees of one of the leaders, or you have the highest confidence of them. Here in the congregation, you have tenants, hundreds of them who are interested in why they don't get paid that supplement, and why is that supplement much smaller for them than in the City Assembly? Although the budget plans to pay them the funds regularly, they say they are not being paid for it. It's a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Now it was St. John's Day. Nikola and many housewives, our mothers, our grandmothers, aunts, wives whine and complained about the expensive, they were very sick, there's no good Serbian beans made of, there's no good white and black onion, there's no carrot. Is it possible that we're really going to leave this market to an import lobby where we're going to buy products that are far from the quality of our products? One more question. The citizens of Miriev appeal to traffic experts to be flawed by the zoning that has two zones in the city's transport in Miriev. They believe that Miriovo is unique and that it is ten minutes from the city center and that it would be the turn to be one zone. Finally, respected colleagues and colleagues, if we leave education and education to foreigners, if Rio Tinto swallows Jadar, if we destroy peasants and agriculture, if we let white-world alelas roar and dive through Serbia, if we destroy forests and rivers, water and ore we have already sold, what remains of this beautiful and beautiful Serbia? What do we leave to generations? So brothers and sisters, fingers on your forehead, think till it's too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11570	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. You were delivered the records of the 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2021. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted them in writing any objection to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 23, 24 and 26 November. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of -177, for - 167, did not vote - ten MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Regular Session in 2021, by majority vote. I am voting on the minutes of the 8th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 25 November. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of -177, for -168, did not vote - nine MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority votes the 8th session of the Second Regular Session in 2021. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 2 December. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of - 178, for - 170, did not vote - eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the ninth session of the Second Regular Session in 2021. I am voting on the minutes of the 10th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 29 November. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total - 179 for -171 did not vote - eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Regular Session in 2021 most of the votes. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session has been contained. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. The Committee on Culture and Information proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the list of candidates for the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, submitted to the National Assembly on 14 December, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total - 179 for - 169 did not vote - 10 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law amending the Law on the provisional arrangements for the payment of fees for public media services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2021, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total - 179 for -166, versus - one, did not vote - 12 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2021, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total - 179 for - 170, did not vote - nine MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Miodrag Lint, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 March 2021. The word is Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11571	Thank you. For the ninth time, I suggest that the agenda of the session be complemented by my proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act. I remind you that in 2012 the Government of the Republic of Serbia began to realise the so-called "Republic of Serbia". A regional stable programme aimed at finally resolving the issue of housing of nearly 20,000 exiled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH by the next five years. Unfortunately, the program was implemented and implemented inadmissibly slowly, sloppyly, unsupervisedly. The main responsibility is borne by state institutions, the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration and Project Management Units. The Commissioner for Refugees and Migration came out recently with a scandalous statement that by the end of 2022, just over 7,000 exiled families from Croatia and the Federation of BiH will be resolved, which is absolutely unacceptable. So more than 12,000 exile families from the territory of Croatia and the Federation of BiH would remain in the status of tenants or remain in unfinished or old, wasteful housing facilities. That is why I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue its regional housing programme and to fulfill the promise made to the biggest victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia, which are exiled persons, to finally resolve the key issue of integration. I gave full support to a group of exiled Serbs who are tenants, who have realised a polling action in the past month and a half. More than 8,400 exile families have applied, or filled out a survey questionnaire just appealing to the highest state authorities to continue the regional housing programme and finally resolve this important humanitarian issue. Besides, we have a number of other problems. We have several categories of exile families that still do not have the right to buy their housing units built by means of international organisations or the EU or individual states. It's 530 users so-called. The SIR programme, the Italian government's seven local self-government programs, waiting 13 years to receive the right to buy their apartments under favourable conditions. There are also more than 50 exile families living in apartments rented by the Dipos Real estate rental company that paid tens of thousands of marks in the past 25, 30 years, or the euro, still are not their own and we urge that the issue be resolved and that these families get the right to buy their apartments. Also, we have more than 500 exile families living in apartments that got through the so-called. A social housing and social housing programme on protection conditions, I also appeal to them and ask that the government make a decision to get the right to buy their apartments and finally become the owners of those apartments, not to continue to be tenants. So, there's a lot of problems. What I particularly want to point out is because of the citizens of Serbia, so that there is no confusion, these are not funds from Serbia's budget, these are donor funds, the funds that the EU, international organisations and a significant number of countries are most giving. So it's a real shame, it would be a great shame and a tragedy not to solve the remaining more than 12,000 exile families in the territory of Croatia and the Federation of BiH, to resolve their housing issue and address the key issue of integration. For this reason, I suggest that today's session agenda be complemented by my Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11572	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of - 175, for -8, did not vote - 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miodrag Lint, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 12 May. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11573	Thank you. For the sixth time, I suggest that the agenda of the session be complemented by my proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families. The main reason why I propose these changes and additions is the fact that I believe that it is high time for a comprehensive, fair and lasting solution to the issue of landscape fighters who are discriminated against by the existing law. Therefore, the existing legal provisions are recognised by the Krajina fighters only until 27 April 1992, which is absolutely unacceptable and represents brutal discrimination. The Krajina fighters are bitter, disappointed, dissatisfied, feel disreputed, feel humiliated, and feel offended. The members of the Republika Srpska Army and police fought with honor, courageously to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the then-Yugoslav state and for the freedom of their people from the pro-Protest regime of Franjo Tudjman whose goal was to create an ethnically pure Croatian state. A particularly scandalous fact is that even this period until 27 April 1992 is not recognised by the Ministry of Defence. Namely, when the Krajina fighters submit to the Ministry of Defence centres to at least recognise this period by 27 April 1992, they get negative solutions with a scandalous explanation that the territorial defences of the SAO Krajina, the SAO Western Slavonia, the SAO Slavonia, Baranja, western Sreme and the Republika Srpska Krajina were not part of the SFRJ armed forces. That's absolutely unacceptable. We have, on the other hand, the fact that fighters are mobilized by TO Književci, Subotica, Belgrade, Sombora, Ruma, they are recognised by the military internship, and the fighters who have been mobilized by the Krajina authorities are not recognised by this war effort. So it turns out that the Department of Defense regulations have stronger legal power than the law, which is absolutely unacceptable. Here we insist that the defence minister finally resolve the issue and that, at least for the time being, this period recognised by law, so until 27 April 1992, finally be recognised in practice. By my proposal for a law, first of all, I ask that all members of the Republika Srpska Army and police are recognised as a war effort throughout the dual-term war. How is it possible that the military internship is recognized by the country's officers and officers? The question arises: Who were they in charge of when they were granted the term of war, and their fighters were not? Also, I ask my bill to address the issue of discrimination related to categorisation, as it turns out that one day of war in Kosovo and Metohija is worth three days of war in Republika Srpska. Also, I ask that a new deadline be opened for recognising the properties of a wartime military invalid based on injury, based on post-traumatic stress disorder and other diseases. Also, I ask that the property of a civilian disabled war be recognised for at least 12 civil disabled wars in the area of Republika Srpska, that original written evidence be finally recognised from the area of SAO Krajina, in the area of Republika Srpska, so military book and all other original documents, in case the Krajina fighters do not have these documents, and we know that we have had criminal actions "Blesk", "Storm" and many others, to recognise the institute of two qualified witnesses. So the essence of the whole story is that finally the members of the Republika Srpska Army and police are equal to all other Serb fighters. So that's the basis and essence of my entire initiative. It is unacceptable that part of Serbian fighters is discriminated against other fighters, members of the JNA and members of the Yugoslav Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11574	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 176 for – nine, did not vote – 167. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraph 2, 157, paragraphs 1, 170 and 192, paragraphs 3, and in accordance with Article 157(1). The Rules of Procedure proposed that: 1) a joint general and uniform search on agenda points 1 to 6 from 11 to 13 and 19 and 20; 2) a joint general and uniform search on points 7 to 10 and 14 to 16; (3) a joint single search on points 17 and 18. Mr. Martinovic doesn't want a word. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 176 for – 160, did not vote – 16. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 178, for – 163, did not vote – 15. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the 14th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. I ask the Service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. The draft Act on Innovation Action, which was submitted by the Government, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Educational Inspection, which was submitted by the Government, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, which was submitted by the Government, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Education and Education, which was submitted by the Government, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market of Capitals and Supplements to the Act of the Law on Preschool Education and Education, which was submitted by the Government, the Proposal for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Market of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Act on the Law on Preschool of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, adopted the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the 20th to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the 20th, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the 17th, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the 17th, on the Law on the Law on the Law of 17th, on the Law, on the Law of the Law of the 17th, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the 17 May 27, on the Law on the 17 May 27th, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the European, the 17, on the Law, on the 17, 27 Loznica - Valjevo - Lazarjevac, part of Iverak - Lajkovac (link to the E-763 Belgrade-Pozega highway), between the Chinese Export-Import Bank, as the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia acting through the Ministry of Finance, as the Prime Minister, who submitted the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia on the visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, which was submitted by the Government of the List of Candidates for a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, submitted by the Committee of Culture and Informing, a draft law amending the Law on the temporary payment of fees for public service, which was submitted by the Governments to the public and services. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Branko Ružić, First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Maja Gojković, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information, Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Mining and Energy, Prof. Dr. Marija Dukić Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Dr. Ivica Radović and Zoran Kasalović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Jovanka Atanacković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mines and Energy, Dr. Saša Lazović and Dr. Saša Stojanović, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Mr. Jovanka Vanušić, State Secretary of the Ministry of Mines and Ministers of Culture, Ministers of Culture and Ministers of Culture, Ministers of Culture and Ministers of Education, Ministers of the Ministers, Ministers of Education and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers of Education and Ministers of Education and Ministers, Ministers of the Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Ministers of the Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Ministers and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on agenda points from 1 to 6, 11 to 13 and 19 and 20. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word has the first vice president and Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11575	I thank you, Your Honor, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has come to you in this term with several legislative proposals that we considered important and necessary for the regulation of areas under our authority, exclusively listening to the needs of persons in education and science, of course both citizens and citizens of Serbia, seeking faster European integration, creating better conditions for the development of individuals and society in general. Today we are in front of you with six laws, with a request to consider them together and, of course, in the hope that in the final epilogue and adopt them with your proposals and suggestions, while leaving behind a better quality education at all levels and greater opportunities for Serbian citizens in their country to develop ideas and work on the welfare of the community in which they live. Let me at the beginning, and by the points of the agenda of the session, explain briefly the reasons for the adoption of these laws. So, honourable Members of the People, you have before you the proposal for a law on innovation work. As you know, the innovation activity was for the first time arranged in the Republic of Serbia by the System Act on Innovation Activity in 2005, which then defined the nature of the innovation activity, the adoption of annual programmes, the type of projects and the way they were implemented through programming activities, as well as the organisational structure of the actors of innovation work. After that, in 2010 and 2013, two amendments and additions to the law in question were implemented without any change in the essential character of this act. According to the government's 2021 work plan for the Republic of Serbia, a new law on innovation activity is foreseen to enable the inclusion of the innovation system of the Republic of Serbia into the European Research Area and the Innovation Union. The innovation system is directed towards research that results in innovative products and processes that stimulate economic and social development, and also plans to remove barriers to access to financial resources and encourage the transfer of technology to the economy. The main objectives of the European Union in the fields of science, research, innovation are to strengthen the scientific and technological system, as one of the key factors of sustainable economic development, thus providing a quality framework for the implementation of scientific research and innovation, as a result of which it aims to foster competitiveness and growth in economic activities. The Republic of Serbia, as a candidate country for membership in the European Union, is implementing the necessary reforms and activities to join the European Research Area, so that we have relied on examples of good European practice when drawing up this proposal for a law on innovation activity. I'll only list some of the changes and newspapers we suggested. So, first of all, new entities of the national innovation system have been defined. These are innovative subjects, start-up centres, innovation workers, spinofs, then innovation infrastructure entities, scientific and technological parks and organisations to support start-ups and investors in innovation activity, business angels, or individuals investing in their own money in innovation. The establishment of a network of scientific and technological parks is foreseen. as an advisory body within the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. The reform of the Innovation Labour Register, more specifically, provides for the establishment of a new register of entities of the national innovation system. It also highlights the importance of intellectual property management within the framework of a scientific and research organisation, while harmonising with the regulations governing the area. The role and importance of the startup, as well as the spinofa established by scientific research organisations with the aim of commercial exploitation of innovation, has been recognised. The responsibilities of the Innovation Action Fund have also been extended, which is precisely the subject of the new register of entities of the national innovation system, so the Innovation Labour Fund will run this newly formed register. With all this in mind, I hope we get your support for adopting this bill. When it comes to the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on secondary education and education, it is to the greatest extent that the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System has been brought into line with the provisions already in place, as well as the proposed amendments and additions that are before you. The alignment refers to provisions concerning the process of introducing state graduation, and here I must remind ourselves that our intention is to have a state graduate in the final epilogue of course certified character, i.e. to confirm the acquired level of knowledge of students in secondary, artistic schools, and of course also in high school, but also of a qualification character, in terms of passing and enrolment to a certain higher education institution. You know that the Commission for the Monitoring of State Graduation Activity in the Educational System, which I have formed, because this is a project that requires the basic preparation of each segment of realisation, led by State Secretary Prof. Dr. Marijana Dukić Mijatovic, decided to move the deadline for the State Graduation to 2022/23. year for three-year secondary schools, i.e. 2023/24. for general art and professional graduation. The Commission has just come up with a proposal to amend the Law on Secondary Education, as a necessary step in the process of realising this strategically important project because, as you know, it is 62, 63 or 64 thousand graduates who certainly have the right to know in advance what conditions they will enter their desired colleges. The amendments to this law also apply to continuity with primary school for students whose medical condition requires attending a school from home or at home or hospital treatment, as well as additional precision when teaching in the distance. The amendment is made due to the need for the organisation to prepare for the completion of secondary education exams to be in line with all rules in the field of education and education. In addition, part of the law relating to the enrolment of pupils who are primary education and education or one of the last two classes of primary education and education ended abroad or in a foreign school registered in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the enrolment for requalification, qualification, specialist or master education. In addition, the amendments suggest that a regular student who attends an international graduation programme can attend part of a programme for the direction of high school or educational profile as a regular student and this change allows the student to obtain a comparison of two secondary education and education programmes, provided he makes a request for it, and that the evaluation and the right to go to the national prom is regulated. The third proposal for a law that I need to talk about today is a bill on amendments to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, which is being amended in order to comply with the provisions of the laws governing the basics of the education and education system in order to improve individual solutions in the field of pre-school education and education. Amendments, i.e. additions to laws, relate to the possibility of achieving a programme in a foreign language, i.e. bilingually in a foreign language and in a foreign language and in the language of a national minority, in terms of harmonising earlier norms with the needs of practice and a new sublegal regulation which regulates the possibility of learning a foreign language at pre-school age by attending courses as a service provided by a pre-school institution. In accordance with the rules governing the implementation of different forms and programmes of educational and educational work and other forms of work and services provided by a pre-school institution, a decision on the selection and implementation of services shall be made by the body of the management of the institution, based on the evaluation of the pedagogical college and the opinion of the parent advice. Following this, it will not essentially limit the right of children to develop foreign language learning experts, of course, as well as the basis for learning other foreign languages, in the community of peers in the game and the planned learning situations through the attendance of the service programme whose quality of prices of the institution’s professional authorities and who are realising foreign language learning experts. The norm relating to the achievement of the educational work programme in the language of the national minority, i.e. bilingually in the language of the national minority and in the Serbian language, remains unchanged, except that its application is aligned with the existing legal solution by which the statute of the pre-school institution determines the language of attainment of educational work. In order to comply with the Law of the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, an addition was made to a member of the law which prescribes a child's records, and in view of the Unique Educational Number, therefore, of the data that JOB is, it is entered into the records that the institution keeps in printed or electronic form, as well as the forms of public documents it issues. Let me remind you, of course, that JOB is an identification number that we will use in our education system to keep data on the student with the aim of, therefore, developing students from the earliest education to the labour market, to understand and to provide adequate education and to change it as needed. Only, only with a constant program and a constant promotion can we run our education system forward. When I talk about amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, I must stress that the proposed amendments and additions wanted to create conditions in a timely manner for effective and professional preparation for the implementation of exams ending a certain level of education, and here I mean, of course, the final exam at the end of basic education and education and the final exam in secondary education and education and general, professional or artistic graduation. The introduction of general professional and artistic graduates as final exams to raise the quality of secondary education and education and to serve as an entry into higher education was planned by the Education Development Strategy in Serbia by 2020, and the law amending the 2022/2023 secondary education law was prescribed among other things to start from school 2022/2023. In the year of school, he passed the final exam of secondary vocational education and education in accordance with the law, and that general, professional and artistic graduation students will first start from school 2023/2024. For years, which I did say earlier about State's graduation. In order to prepare for the implementation of those examinations, it was necessary to prescribe new responsibilities for the Education and Educational Quality Assessment Institute, i.e. to form a test centre, which is in line with the 2030-2020 Action Plan for the implementation of the Education and Education Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia by 2030. In order to create the preconditions for preparing and conducting national examinations that achieve a certain level of education as well as, of course, international studies, within one institution. Then, as part of the single information system, introduce a new information system that will provide the Centre for the Examining with the necessary data to process the results of exams and data to students and test subjects, as well as to deliver the results obtained to higher school institutions for enrolment and for higher education. Also, in order to raise quality and provide objectivity and conduct tests as a new solution, it is precisely prescribed that the possibility to submit objections to the examinations to obtaining a certain level of education, given that the solutions in the applicable law did not specify this possibility and that the problem in practice was solved by the adoption of expert instructions. In particular, in order to bring into line with the Education and Education Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia by 2030, in a work relating to quality assurance requirements in the education and education system, there is an explicit legal basis for the regulation of standards of competence for teachers, educators, professional associates and directors as well as for missing standards of competence for the secretary of the institution, as well as standards of qualifications. A understandable role in educational and educational institutions to develop the national identity of pupils, as well as the awareness and feelings of belonging to the Republic of Serbia, has been proposed to inaugurate the anthem of the Republic of Serbia at the beginning of educational-experienced work that takes place during the school year beginning on September 1st. In order to regulate the system before university education and education, an explicit legal basis for the establishment of educational and scientific centres has been laid down, in addition, the precision of certain provisions of the laws for which it has been applied, it has been found necessary or which have led to different practices in practice. For example, the question of the verification of the institution and the programmes made by enrolment in school, evaluation of management bodies, the secretary of the institution, reception in employment, participation in the work of professional bodies. In particular, the draft law contains safeguard provisions laying down the right to work without a licence in a preschool institution for nurses under certain conditions, as well as the right for teachers, educators and professional associates who, in accordance with earlier applicable regulations, have established a working relationship in an institution, for participants with developmental and disability disorders, without any assurance of professional disability, to be able to carry out educational-examination work further if they fulfil certain conditions. The law amending and supplementing the Law on basic education and education is amended and complemented in order to comply with the provisions of the laws governing the fundamentals of education and education systems and to improve individual solutions in the field of primary education and education. Newspapers, i.e. these amendments and additions to the law, refer to basic music schools where they can achieve an exceptional programme of secondary music education and education. The introduction of this option means more rational, more efficient treatment in situations where there is a basic music school in the territory of a local self-government unit, and on the other hand there is a great interest in the students to continue their secondary music education. In view of the fact that the law does not provide for the possibility of a primary school being verified for the achievement of a secondary education programme, the establishment of a secondary music school in these cases as another legal person, which is not a rational and effective way of responding to the needs and interests of students. We note that amendments to the law prescribe the duration of basic education and education by providing basic music education and education for four to six years instead of two to six years in accordance with new curricula and teaching and learning programmes for music schools. Supplements to the Educational Educational Work Act from fifth to eighth grade can also be organised in combined departments. We also specified the obligation of parents, or another legal representative, to ensure that the student regularly attends the course, and to inform the school about the reasons for the potential lack of teaching for reasons that objective circumstances exist in which the parent cannot ensure that the student continues to attend the course regularly within three days. As regards the final exam, the eighth grader is prescribed to pass the final exam in the language in which the educational work was carried out. An outstanding final exam of eighth grade students at the request of parents can be passed in a different language if it is in the best interest of students. As mentioned earlier in this law, we have defined a better record of students' education data for the single educational number, i.e. JOB. The data provided by JOB shall be entered in the records kept by the school in printed or electronic form, as well as forms of public documents issued. The addition of the law to a new member relating to the recognition of foreign school documents has been carried out by predicting that a foreign school law is recognised by the ENIC/NARIC Centre for reasons of timely and proper treatment of schools, i.e. the parents of students. Finally, honourable MPs, in a set of draft laws of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, there is also a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Educational Inspection. The current law entered into force on 14 April 2018, and it highlighted the specificities and procedures and position of the inspection in the field of education in relation to the law governing inspection supervision in general and significantly raised and improved the quality of inspection supervision in education. During the three-year application practice, it pointed out the need to bring in several concrete newspapers that would expand the functioning of the educational inspection and more comprehensively improve the inspection system in the Republic of Serbia in the field of education. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Educational Inspection in the shortest possible respects the precision of the provisions contained in the specific laws adopted in the meantime, while enforcing the competences of the educational inspection in the exercise of the same laws as the Law on Science and Research, the Law on the National Framework of Qualifications of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the dual model of education in higher education institutions, as well as in other areas where the jurisdiction of educational inspection is prescribed. The amendments relate to the possibility of obtaining official clothing and footwear for a republican educational inspector, i.e. the circuit education inspector, or city or municipal education inspector. The amendments and additions also relate to the precision of certain legal provisions relating to the educational inspector of the authority and trust in the affairs of inspection oversight of municipalities, or cities, or provinces, in the sense of precision of the authority of the Republic's educational inspector under the law. In this context, I hope that through the debate in particular we will go through your issues and eventually have adopted this set of laws that will improve, I am convinced, the quality of education that we provide to young generations, as well as greater opportunities for research and innovation in Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11576	I thank you, first Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. There is a word, Deputy Prime Minister of Culture and Information Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11577	I thank you, dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs and MPs. Before you today, in the debate, there are as many as four draft laws, from the area for which the Ministry of Culture and Information is in charge. These are the draft laws on cultural heritage, the draft laws on amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Media Services and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Union, in the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Creative Europe programme, and in the end I will only have a few sentences on the draft law that was meant to defend the Deputy Prime Minister, Zorana Mihajlovic, but I am asked to defend it before you and I, and yet it is related to a set of media laws, so regardless of the authority of the other ministry, I think I will be able to do so because it is a single sentence. I will try not to take much of your attention, and yet to say something about a very important law, which is in front of you, which is certainly a proposal for a law on cultural heritage, which is a system law, which, for a long time, has been waiting for and the purpose of adopting this law is certainly the establishment of a legally regulated and organised system of protection and preservation of cultural heritage through the discovery, collection, research, documenting, study, evaluation, protection, representation, use and management of cultural heritage. I would remind you that in the Republic of Serbia, the current law on cultural goods, which was adopted, is now long ago in 1994, right here in my mandate, is the time to change many laws, basic laws, which are related to culture. Except for the terminology, because if you compare 1994 and the end of 2021, we'll agree, of course, that there are outdated, even terminology. In the meantime, two constitutions changed, not to mention social political systems, not to mention the names of the states, and that created the need, certainly to bring this important regulation into line with the legal system, and the 1994 law was the law, according to its character, of the general regulation, because it regulated common issues of protection of cultural goods. For these reasons, the 1994 Cultural Goods Act is indeed a complicated, large regulation, many provisions, which are almost inapplicable in 2021, in our country. The proposal for a law on cultural heritage, as a fundamental source of law for this matter, will provide now an institutional basis for the detailed regulation of all cultural heritage activities and, in addition to the laws already passed, here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the last year, these are laws, to remind you, by which we have arranged the museum's work, archival activity, the protection of old and rare bibliotic buildings, is in the plan to bring, certainly and laws to protect movable cultural goods, but for this we need, the first adoption of this roof law and the areas of film and other audio-visual buildings and newspapers is that the draft law here is a visual and film heritage, built, ready for public procurement proceedings, yesterday passed the Committee on Public Service and the first public debate will be held on Thursday, December 23rd, at 12 p.m., in the Vojvodina archives, in Novi Sada, the first round of public discussion, to be the first one. To return to the law that lies before you, so for the first time, cultural heritage is defined, so for the first time we have a definition of what a cultural heritage is for us and thus we are harmonising with the constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You have a very large definition before you, in law, I wouldn't read it again. What is important is the cultural heritage includes an immaterial cultural heritage, material cultural goods, located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, of course including the AP KIM, as an integral part of it, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it is important to stress that KIM is a place of special importance for the cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia, which has an exceptional spiritual wealth and is highlighted in this bill. The invaluable historical artistic and architectural value and the high concentration of religious and cultural heritage, SPC on KIM, make this territory unique for both our and our world cultural heritage. The bill provides for special adoption of the programme, protection and preservation of cultural heritage in the Republic of Serbia, which brings the government for a period of five years on a proposal from the competent culture minister. In the light of certain unforgiving events that have happened in the earlier period, and in light of the various thefts and disappearances of cultural goods from the Institute of Culture, and we have also discussed this here in parliament, it is of great importance therefore, according to this law, the records of alienated and missing objects are established, and the elements of the movable cultural heritage and material goods that can represent cultural heritage, and the keeping of records will be in charge of our Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Culture and Information, as chief administrator, and for the management and use of data, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Administration of Customs. It is also important that cultural heritage, if exposed to the risk of destruction, disappears from a serious violation of integrity or damage, is identified as a cultural heritage in danger. One of the contributions of the new law, the improvement of the system of protection and preservation of cultural heritage, is that it clearly determines that the cultural heritage listed on the UNESCO list, the world heritage, enjoys a special approach to protection, aging and care, as well as the cultural heritage on the territory of the AP KIM. The proposed law, of course, defines and regulates both the immaterial cultural heritage and the proposed definition of the law on the immaterial cultural heritage, is in line with the UNESCO Convention on the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage, which this Parliament ratified in 2010. Since then, it's a binding law for us. This legislative proposal also found that the Ministry of Culture and Education educates two bodies, namely the National Committee for Material Cultural Heritage and the National Committee for Intangible Cultural Heritage, in order to monitor insight, implement of course international obligations and ratification conventions and cultural heritage, entered or proposed for listing on UNESCO's list. The main newspaper in this part is the formation of the National Committee for Material Cultural Heritage, while this second Committee was established a decade ago, but was simply not recognized through this 1994 Law. It is no less important that this law contributes to the accession of our country and the EU, and is likely on that European Agenda of Fulfillment, and its provisions achieve full compliance with our legislation with EU rules, which relate to the return of cultural objects illegally exported from the territory of Member States, and the rules relating to exports, or the introduction and import of cultural goods. I say, a certain number of institutes have been taken over by the Cultural Goods Act and they are now more detailed and improved and you have it all in the law that is before you by regular procedure, and there has been enough time, so I'm not going to read you these definitions. In the context of previous protection, the exact time limit of two years shall be determined from the registration for movable goods, i.e. three years for fixed goods and provided for an exception in the event that there are justified reasons for extending that period, but not more than two or three years, respectively. It's a great success of the Ministry of Culture and Information. It wasn't easy to fight to extend these deadlines, because there are always other interests that make you cut certain deadlines. It's important that we pay attention to that until the last minute, until we give you this proposal. In particular, permanent previous protection of archaeological sites, i.e. archaeological areas and film and other audio-visual heritage, has been established. According to tax laws, this is also an important part of this law. The owner and holder will have the right to refund paid customs duties and other import duties on permanent imports into the Republic of Serbia of cultural goods established for cultural good within six months of import and the right to refund taxes, if already done. Also, if the owner of a cultural good gift, i.e. with other pasture legal work, gives the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the establishment of the protection of cultural heritage, this is a good exercise of the right to tax exemption in accordance with tax laws. Thus, it is considered the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the protection of the cultural goods. I would point out that this law is intended to take place one year from the adoption of yours, because it is indeed large and many of the factors that are foreseen here to actively participate in the protection of cultural heritage in our country will really take some time to prepare for this law. As far as the second bill is concerned, I think you really know, because you were actively involved in preparing these amendments and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media. It is the results of the inter-party dialogue and the document of 18 September 2021. Certain concrete measures have been identified that could improve political conditions for the next elections. The document has 16 points. As measure 3 is proposed to amend the Law on Electronic Media, to be complemented in the work relating to the obligations of audio-visual media service providers during the election campaign, by prescribing the obligation to publish tariffs for political advertising before the start of the election campaign. The 20 October 2021 agreement, which was also concluded here on your part and by other participants, political parties that joined this dialogue, provides specific restrictions for public officials in the election campaign. One of the provisions is that 10 days before a day of voting, the media cannot report on official public gatherings opening infrastructure and other facilities, roads, bridges, schools, hospitals, factories and the like. So, if these meetings are attended by public officials who are candidates for the President of the Republic, MPs, MPs in the AP assembly and council members in local self-government units. The government has taken the proposed measures. In particular, we believe that the role of electronic media is important in the public information system, and their role is particularly important in the election campaign itself. There are, therefore, some other weather changes that are called the "pre-election campaign" campaign, but the "election campaign" and so on. The third law is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Media Services. Also here are the provisions provided for in the Agreement of 29 October 2021 on your dialogue. The duty of public media services is foreseen to act in a regular information programme and in specific programmes dedicated to the election campaign in accordance with the principles of impartial, fair, balanced representation of political entities, electoral lists and candidates in the elections and to provide for the organisation of radio-television duels or confrontations in order to discuss certain current political issues in the light of the discussion. The Law on Public Media Services provides a stable and sufficient financing of the basic activity of the public media service, i.e. public media service broadcasters. The law predicted that they could be financed from the public media service fee, from budget funds, commercial revenues and other revenues, and that in addition to the 2022 tax, budgets for the partial financing of the Vojvodina Radio Television are allocated. I think that's the kind of solution that happened last year. In this way, a stable system of financing public media services, their independence, also takes care of the economic power of citizens. To repeat, the December 2nd to 31st, 2022, partially financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, a public media institution, RTV. For this, around 900m dinars have been allocated to the Republic of Serbia's budget that has already been adopted. Most because the current level of tax of 299 dinars is not enough for RTV to carry out its work uninterrupted at the moment. The Fourth Legislative Proposal is the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Creative Europe programme. This programme provides us with strategic support on the different types of this programme and areas of contemporary creation and cultural heritage, the public civil sector in various artistic areas, as well as projects of interresor co-operation. The participation of the programme is of paramount importance from the aspect of our country's European integration in the area of culture. Many actors in our country are allowed to continue participation in this important programme. I can tell you my pleasant surprise that many people of the world of culture have called me and asked when this will be on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to continue to participate in these programmes. This provides financial support for domestic cultural entities and promotes the overall process of European integration of our country. Let me tell you, even during that period, as many as 305 projects from 146 organisations and institutions from Serbia and all areas of culture have been supported. I want to point out how important it is to vote for this agreement. More than 657 partnerships with organisations across Europe have been established. The total financial resources that our country has identified on behalf of participation in the Creative Europe programme from 2014 to 2020 amounted to over two and a half million euros. Of course, most of that amount has been refunded through the pre-accession European Union funds, which means that nearly 17 euros have returned to each euro invested. So, the participation in the programme is not just about providing the necessary financial resources, which someone might think when I presented these data, but rather about strengthening the cultural system in Serbia, and above all, its European positioning, because in the context of, of course, cultural diplomacy and that means to us a greater European and international visibility of our artists and our works. There are all fields of art envisaged, and literature, and films, and art creation, and many others. The new Creative Europe Programme's budget from 2021 to 2027 has been increased by more than 50% compared to the previous programme's budget and amounts to 2.44 billion euros. The new programme planned to support an even greater number of projects with an even higher co-financing rate compared to the previous programme. From everything I've done before, I've been trying very hard to explain to you for a while. My associates were able to write me a large study. I think I'm the only one who'd be talking to you by the end of the day, and I've cut it short for you now. I say, the adoption of this law will bring exclusively positive effects both in terms of concrete support for projects from our country and throughout the process of European integration. Not to forget that I'm also in charge of one law, a bill on amendments to the Law on the temporary regulation of how to charge taxes on public media content. The Ministry of Mining and Energy is formally proposing this law. I say it's directly related to media laws, to the greatest extent to the Public Media Services Act. The law provides for only one amendment, which is to change the date of December 31st, 2021 as of December 31st, 2022. Nothing else changes. It is important to say that the amount of the fee for the Public Media Service remains unchanged and amounts to the following year, as well as these current, 299 dinars. I thank you for the extraordinary attention you gave me in this long presentation and invite you to discuss these laws and to vote on these proposed laws and amendments in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11578	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture and Information. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, Parliament of Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11579	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Your Honor, with my associates, I'd like to start with this last finding of yours. On behalf of the Committee on Culture, we will certainly support all the laws that you have proposed and we will do so truly gladly every time. All MPs who make up the Committee on Culture and Information are very happy to follow all the steps that the Ministry is taking in the more efficient establishment of procedures and the continued development of public policies in the fields of culture and cultural heritage. Let me just really on behalf of the Committee, given that there seems to be the most controversy and there has been, I refer only to the bill that is one of the most important laws that we have considered in the area of culture in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this conference, which is the Law on Cultural Heritage. It is a law in which our tradition, religion, culture, our history, but also our present, which will already become the past tomorrow and we must make sure that everything we leave to our children, what we leave to generations, is arranged and that we know that we have fought daily and diligently for everything that will be devoted to them tomorrow, and how faithfully we are really fighting for all the goals that concern the preservation of our cultural heritage. The adoption of the Cultural Heritage Act creates a legally regulated system that we need to protect and preserve and, above all, leave for some future generations for evaluation and study. To preserve what we are given, as well as what we are about to try to continuously protect, testimony about our existence and our culture every day, we need to be closer to that goal and this way that the Ministry of Culture and Information is working and for this very short time, I would say, and the area of culture is extraordinary, it seems to me, complex and informative, of course. You've really managed to achieve certain results, which are on a very high level and I congratulate you on that once again. I said, whenever I have a chance here from this place, I will do it on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Information, because I believe that extraordinary progress has been made in these areas which are and how important to the everyday life of our citizens. So, I would point out what you yourself said, that the proposed law found that the Ministry educates the National Committee for Material Cultural Heritage and the National Committee for Intangible Cultural Heritage in order to create a framework for the detailed editing of these areas. Also, allow me, it may not have been very interesting to the MPs in principle, but during the debate on the Committee on Culture and Information, we have really managed to see the importance of the proposal for a law on the validation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Creative Europe 2021 – 2027 programme, and I really think that the public should be aware and the more we should talk about such projects, especially in cultural diplomacy that connects incompatibly, erases borders, creates new paths and new kinds of dialogues. Participation in the Creative Europe Programme, which is one of the EU's most important initiatives to support and co-finance projects in the fields of culture and audiovisual sector that supports European cinema, as well as cultural and creative sectors, shows commitment to the work of the Ministry of Culture and Information, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What is very interesting and very important is that the culture that plays an outstanding role in the EU economy shows that 4.5% of GDP actually accounts for EU GDP and 4% of employment. It is about eight and a half million jobs and a lot more if their impact on other sectors is taken into account. So culture is also really important in this case and I'm going to tell you just one more piece of information, and that's that every single euro of our country's investment in culture we get ten. So, this relationship shows us that we have truly comprehensively understood the whole story and that in this way, in the end, we have set our goals in fact to the Ministry of Culture with Minister Gojkovic at the head, when she took over the culture sector. So, everything that has been done has been done for the sake of all cultural workers and for the sake of culture in Serbia as a whole, in order to move forward with the development of our Serbia, to step forward with the development of our economy and to bring it all together as something that will certainly contribute to both sectors. I would leave the rest to the authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party, or the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – for our children", who will certainly have something to say about each law individually. I can only point out that the Committee on Culture and Information will indeed, and in the future, be happy to wait, at least in this conference, and there is little time left, such proposals for decisions, laws concerning culture, and I call on all Members of Parliament to support this set of laws from culture and to continue to fight together for the better tomorrow when it comes to culture, but also the economy of our country and to develop equally all sectors of our country because our citizens deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11580	I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information. I believe the Minister of Culture and Information wants to say something else after I see her in the system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11581	I just want to thank the members of the Working Group who have worked for six months on this extremely important basic law on the protection of our country's cultural heritage. The president of the Working Group was Mrs. Daniela Vanusic, who is V.D. Assistant Minister of Culture and Information in the Cultural Heritage and Digitalisation Protection Sector. Another member was Dr Branko Rakic, a regular professor of the University of Belgrade Law Faculty. Then, Olivera Markovic, senior advisor at the Ministry of Culture and Information, Ms. Daniela Filipović, curator, coordinator of the Centre for Intangible Cultural Heritage at the Ethnographic Museum in Belgrade, Ivan Dodzic, secretary at the National Museum in Belgrade, Dr. Nevena Debljović, hanging architect, advisor at the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments and Dušica Juribašić, senior adviser for cultural heritage at the Regional Secretariat for Culture and Public Information and Relations with Religious Communities. This is what I want to thank them for this extraordinary work which, even after the public debate, was not easy to get along and get this kind of quality proposal in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11582	Thank you. The word is held by the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11583	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and today we have draft laws on the agenda that will significantly improve our legislation in the areas in which they are proposed. The proposals are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so we can discuss them today in the tide. And what can I say after my distinguished colleague, Sandra Christmas, who runs the Committee on Culture and Information, the Assembly Committee, has indeed provided us with a lot of information besides Mrs Gojkovic. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives looks at the bill in a different way, so my presentation may be slightly different. So today we are here to show for who knows which time we have fought in the Assembly for orderly and decent Serbia and that we have indeed been on a joint mission with the Serbian government for the past year and a half. The Government's proposals will always have the support of the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, and we will continue to work together, as we have so far, to improve the acts for which the National Assembly is responsible. In that sense, I would also like to comment briefly on the latest survey by Factor Plus, which shows that SNS has the support of as many as 57% of Serbian citizens and that tells us that we have done well so far, of course we can always do better, changing the things that are in our way even stronger and more convincing victories in the upcoming elections. On the other hand, mostly on the street, on social networks, but also in many media, owned by former regimes, we have those who do not want decent and orderly Serbia, but want violence, chaos and full devaluation of the system of values. Why do I say that? Because swearing to the president a while ago was creative rage. The insults addressed to Minister Darija Kisic Tepavcevic are, they say, the critical word of intellectuals, and, of course, on the various front pages is one of these, we can see on various tycoon media and portals that daily unfeeling campaign against all of us from SNS, of course, against President Aleksandar Vukic, making the untruths that would make Alexander Vukic and SNS look bad, or depicted in a bad light. Unfortunately, that's how they only attract attention. They do not have a healthy policy to offer Serbian citizens. They use hard words like hanging, shooting, cutting hair. Their policy is a policy of violence and hate policy. I'll just end up saying that we'll keep fighting, not in a dirty way, as Gilas, Jeremic, Lutovac and similar politicians do, and we'll try to raise these 57%, because people deserve roads, schools, people deserve bridges and railroads, they deserve the rule of law, not demonstrations, streets and gallows if they happen to support tycoon politics. I will certainly support the draft laws in the voting day, because I also think that today will be a constructive debate between ministers and all the MPs who are here today in the hall, and I also think that the bill proposals are excellent, that Serbia is developing in all those areas where they are proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11584	I thank the honourable MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. The next representative is the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, the Information Society, the Honorable National MP Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11585	The Honored Vice-President of the National Assembly, the Honored Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen National MPs, the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society held its session on 20 December 2021, which discussed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Preschool Education and Education, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Educational Education and Education, the Proposal for a Law on Innovation Action. Dear People's MPs, to understand the essence of these laws, allow me in a few sentences to say what you know very well, which is that the SNS and its government inherited the destroyed education from Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, which characterized the etatization, politicisation, red tape, anti-pedagogisation, commercialisation, sorosification, quasi-refomation, testomania, poor and expensive textbooks, corruption, inefficiency and imperfection of the educational system. Dear People's MPs, that is why the government of Aleksandra Vukic had a very difficult task in implementing education reforms. That's why the president in his famous exposé said, I quote -- what's most important to us, what I wrote the most about in the exposé, and I remind you, eight more than all the exposés were previously pages for education, continues the president -- is the most important reform for us, because it is human capital for the future, and we have to learn and learn. We need to raise knowledge to a pedestal from which you can see further and from which you can move on to new campaigns, to acquire new knowledge. It's a finished quote. Dear People's MPs, I have the impression that the president had in mind, when he said so, the great English philosopher Francis Bekon, who said, quote: "Knowledge is power, a grain of knowledge stronger than steel." It's a finished quote. I am sure that, looking at the power of knowledge for the development of society, especially our society and inherited one, the president had in mind the great German philosopher Leibnica, who said, quote: "Give me education and we will change the character of Europe in a short time from a century." It's a finished quote. Dear People's MPs, for the development of patriotism, it is very important that the application of these laws that we are going to debate today in the voting day, I hope, be adopted unanimously, is very important that on September 1st, the school year begins by intonating the Serbian anthem, thereby contributing to the patriotic feelings of our students. I will not talk about opponents of the introduction of an anthem into the education system and the start of the school year, because they do not deserve a comment at all, and it is those intellectuals these days who attack President Vukic and call for his murder, and these are the same intellectuals I hope to have time to talk about, who have been against raising a monument to Stefan Nemanja and not only that, but have otherwise been against all those values of the moral and patriots that concern the state of Serbia. These are the same intellectuals who said, quote, that the state of Serbia is at the bottom, complete the quote, and these days give support to that intellectual who called for the murder of the president of the state. Dear People's MPs, therefore all these laws submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are extremely important because they contribute to further affirmation of the reform of the education system, i.e. Digitalisation and dual education, especially due to the government of Ana Brnabic, because they represent the process of reform procedures. Therefore, the Committee, in the end, proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that after the debate we vote on the day to vote on these very important laws because of the future of our students, because this contributes to the overall system of modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by the Government of Ana Brnabic and the engine of realisation of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11586	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The next is the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, MP and vice-president of the National Assembly, respected Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11587	Dear Vice-President, the Presidency, First Vice-President and Vice-President of the Government with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is an unquestionable importance that the EU attaches to the preservation of cultural heritage, as already in Article 3(3). The Treaty on European Union states: "The Union respects its rich cultural and linguistic diversity and takes care of the preservation and development of European cultural heritage." Article 167. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which refers to culture, stresses, among other things, that the Community will contribute to improving the knowledge and dissemination of the culture and history of European peoples in order to preserve and protect cultural heritage from European importance. In addition to all that we have heard in the opening presentation of the honourable minister, one reason for the adoption of the new law is to coordinate with the legal assets referred to in Chapter 29 – the Customs Union, which relate to imports and import, export and export of cultural goods, i.e. the return of cultural objects, illegally exported from the territory of the Member States of the European Union. In that sense, the draft law regulates the implementation of several EU directives, such as: transposition of Regulation 2019-880 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of 2019, 17 April, on the entry and import of cultural goods; NADA is Council Regulation No 116-2009 of 18 December 2008 on the export of cultural goods; NADA is Commission Implementing Regulation 1081-2012 adopted on 9 November 2012; for the purposes of Council Regulation 116-2009 on the export of cultural goods and Directive No 60 of the European Parliament and of the Council adopted on 15 May 2014, and concerns the recovery of cultural cases illegally exported from the territory of Member States. It is specifically prescribed that the Member States of the European Union may, in the process of returning cultural objects illegally exported from their territories, request the recovery of a cultural object unlawfully exported after 1 January 1993. The procedure may also be initiated on the basis of this proposal within three years after the Member State of the European Union has learned of the place where the cultural object is located or the identity of the person who owns the case and no later than 30 years from the date on which the cultural object is unlawfully carried out. The proposal for a law on cultural heritage is further in line with international standards for the protection of cultural heritage, thus adopting, among other things, the definition of an immaterial heritage from the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Intangible Cultural Heritage of 2003, and it is said to be a legacy passed down from generation to generation, communities and groups re-create it in terms of environment, their interactions with nature and history, providing them with a sense of identity and continuity. This promotes an extremely significant respect for cultural diversity, human creativity, regional integration, common customs, etc. In terms of promotion and respect for regional integration and common heritage, the proposal for a law on cultural heritage provides that the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government encourage the co-operation of cultural heritage protection institutions with educational institutions to implement projects, programmes, activities in the area of protection of cultural heritage, and that international co-operation projects in the area of protection, preservation of cultural heritage are implemented on the basis of international agreements and signed contracts. The common cultural heritage binds us to the liquids of European history, tradition and culture, and in that sense none, nor the best possible proposal for a law on the protection of cultural heritage can replace the protection created by the fact that our language, our customs, national construction are part of a unique European cultural space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11588	I would like to thank the esteemed Elvira Kovac, the chairman of the Committee and the vice president of the National Assembly. Notice to the People's Messengers. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're moving on to the list of authorized speakers. The first on the list is Samir Tandir, president of the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party. My bad. The authorised representative is Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11589	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable People's MPs, today we have very important laws on the agenda that are of great importance to function, to build our overall system of education, education, cultural ascension, and perhaps it would be good if we had two discussions on these proposals for the reasons of their importance, both in the field or in the sphere of education, as well as in the laws relating to culture, cultural heritage and the whole set of laws that have been proposed by the Ministry of Culture. I will begin by interpreting and commenting the laws proposed by the Ministry of Education. Of course, they are all about to be based on the Law on the Foundations of an education and education system. This law, as a fundamental law, which, or from which all other laws arise, come from the Preschool Education Act, down to high school, if you want higher education, is essential. I'll look back at two things. The first is a member of the 33rd law that regulates religious teaching in schools. It is very good that this member was transferred from these legal provisions, which were in the laws on basic education or in another, to this fundamental Law on the system of education and education. It's for a number of reasons. Since we already have the experience of 20 years of realization of religion in schools and that it was officially marked several days or several weeks ago by a very important and important conference where representatives of all religious communities participated, as well as the Ministry of Education, this is a step forward to move religion, as an object, from university subjects to a binding subject in school. As at that symposium, it seems to me, or the conference of the Patriarch himself, there are a very large number of university subjects among which religiousism, and this should not be so. For a number of reasons, this is important. It is important that this enables the start of status resolution over 2,000 believers from all religious communities, confesions, both those representing both churches and religious communities. It is very important that after 20 years, it is set out to ensure that those believers are finally given permanent employment and status, just as other educators have. It is also very important that a commission will be formed that will work on this proposal by the believers, and for us as members of Islam it is extremely important to correct one injustice, that there were no representatives of the Islamic community in Serbia in the previous commission and we hope that this time they will be representatives of the Islamic community in Serbia and that in this way also religious science will be qualitatively returned when it comes to Muslim religious religion, Muslim religious religion in the sense that it should be when it comes to both plans and programmes, but also when it comes to carrying out religious teaching. Unfortunately, we had different abuses in the previous period, from the fact that this Muslim religion was led by incompetent people, from which it was not done properly. Here is a chance for it to return to the system and correct the injustices of the Islamic Community in Serbia and the Muslims of the Republic of Serbia. I'd also add one more thing when it comes to religious rights. Those who are students, students, students, and I have said that in previous sessions, when it comes to the mehjit, i.e. the prayer space at the State University in Novi Pazar. It is especially important for high school students, including universities and universities, to allow them to consume their religious rights in the way they feel they should. I would highlight the area of Sandzak from which I come, because it is very important there on Fridays that men be, how can I say, the main Sunday prayer that cannot be performed on their own, which must be performed in mosques, mosques, etc., that students of secondary schools and higher classes of primary schools receive at least one hour of that Friday, that they will not be taken away from teaching, that they can go and perform their prayers and return to class. This is a practical problem because it challenges the effects of students, their parents, because they are teachers in the problem of allowing these children or teachers to go to Sunday prayer, because they are missing class, they cannot be justified, and children consider it a commitment and then a certain problem is made. It would therefore be good to allow for a break between teaching during that period when Sunday prayer will give sufficient space to fully implement it. As the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party, what unites us MPs of one party and another is a struggle for villages. We are now in a really challenging moment, a time frame, in terms of geographical and weather conditions, when teaching in schools in rural areas is very difficult because of weather opportunities and when it is necessary to point out this reality in order to further warn what is done by the ministry, but also by the government and by the state, to allow children who attend classes in these regional schools, which are usually few, to be able to teach as high as possible. We're talking about the effects of the weather. For example, in previous years we've had in Sjenica, in the cave high school, classes are stopped for three weeks, for two weeks to clear the snow, so that children can take quality classes, so that they can get to class at all. Thank God, I want here to show respect and recognition to the local government in Sjenica who so far has not allowed no student to reach school, or that every day is a clear road and that children attend school uninterruptedly. This is not just a question of the Ministry of Education, this is a question of a broader type, but I would like to express it as I would like to thank the Ministry of Education for having had an understanding of this particular municipality in many projects and that it was positively responding to the demands of this local self-government when it came to certain matters, such as emergency, such as the replacement of boilers in the village of Razdaginje in a cave village, such as the resolution or completion of a student home building, such as the forgiveness of 25 million debts that this municipality had for the Ministry. This is especially important because this municipality is one of the most burdensome debts, and this is all due to previous irresponsible authorities. Of course, in the end, what you enjoyed most was the construction of the most modern school, the 21st century school, which the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic announced and for which, as far as I know, tenders have already been called. It is something that is encouraging, such as encouragement and the announcement that technology parks will be built in that city, which is one really big shift compared to everything we've had so far. I'm saying this because it's not that simple and easy in these conditions to maintain everything that means the education system. You know, this municipality, because of these duties earlier, had to introduce an emergency, so that it could allocate funds from its budget to clear roads to each school, because the road cleaning company was burdened with debts from before, and that was the only way to get rid of it and that every student could come to school. You know, it's not even a little simple if we have in that area, especially these district schools to which unfortunately, there's still no asphalt. To most of these schools there is asphalt, but there is support from schools in the municipality of Sjenica, which are free of asphalt and this macadam road is very difficult to maintain in these winter conditions. This is again one appeal and the Ministry of Education and the Government not to allow any school, at least those in the area, especially at these altitudes above what represents this real picture of Serbia as a whole, to be such schools that the accessible path has not been made in such a way that they have asphalt. You know, this is the only administrative centre in the Republic of Serbia that's over 1,000 metres above sea level. There's a place where children from these remote district schools sometimes have to travel from eight to ten kilometers to come to school. In these conditions when it attacks snow and a half a meter and somewhere where it's imposed and several meters, it's very risky and it's very dangerous because then the beasts show up, wolves show up, something comes up. That was a lot in the past. I'm stressing this here precisely because I want to make a big confession to the Ministry, the Government, and especially to a municipality that has the resources and capacity to maintain that path, that no child is ever late to class or that his way to school is insecure. That's something you really need to commend. Also, in this law, we have one more thing Mr. Atlagic was saying, which is the bill, article 9, which refers to Article 28, the issue of national anthem at the beginning of the school year. This issue in the previous period caused, when much was mentioned here, discussion and even problems, and even some others, unfortunately, situations which those who are not well-intentioned to themselves, or to their people, tried for the sake of pulsism, cheap policies to abuse and harm themselves and their people, and then the Republic of Serbia. Truth be told, things have to be different around here. Anthem, like a song, was created in the continuity of the past. We should remind ourselves that it's a song that was first derived from religious categories. If we had, say, an anthems to all religions, both Christianity and Islam, that the first of these songs were created through religious definitions, whatever they are from the Bible and from the Qur'an, and that in that formal sense they go into a religious national song in some later period, say, in terms of Protestantism and what Martin Luther did, that his anthem from his "Coral" - fort our Lord God, has become a great motivation for all those who fought for their rights and for that Husin movement that was created in Poland, Czech Republic and for the fourarian movement in Britain, and this is the second stage where all the anthems shared. And then, from religious-national, they go exclusively into the national category. That's what we had. So, when an anthem develops in that continuity that we know today, among the oldest, the British one, in Britain -- God save our queen, who came back from that matrix, and then spread to almost all the monarchies of Europe, so somewhere, "God save the king," somewhere "save the queen," but all monarchies had that kind of an anthem. There were problems, even when the anthem was adopted, again in Britain, for example, opposed it, saying that the power of the king and queen or the church was too much. And then we have these other anthems, two matrixes that make them, one that represents exclusively a national wake, as is the case with the American anthem -- stars that are seen in the heavens, which were created in British-American wars and by an ordinary man, a lawyer, who watched from that ship as the British attempt to conquer that last fortress of the Americans that was around Washington at that moment. We also have those anthems that were exclusively produced in international movements. It's those anthems of which are the most important "Marselleza", "International" and it's actually going through all of this and it's coming into our space. My goal is to say that this later led to what is called panslavism and panslavist movement, which is still a priest Tomo, I can't remember the last name, when he made this first anthem of all southern Slovenians, and that is the anthem "God, keep Slovaks", and then Slovenians, and that is the anthem "Hey Sloveni", which later became an anthem and our space. Of course, during these periods of the birth of nations, the birth of cultural and national identities, all the peoples of the Balkans have developed this in different ways. So the Croats developed their anthems through the Illyrians, from those "It has not yet failed", Matija Gupcu, etc., so the Bosniaks developed this rebellious revolutionary character through this resistance to the Ottomans, and so they produced these songs - Strange Zeman became, the villain became, din dušmanin stood up, what is he willing to do? And the Serbs came from Dosite, from his song "Vojsta Serbi", and then in turn, to this anthem that is present and adopted today, and it was created as part of that theatre piece when it was performed and taken from there as one of the possible anthems. I'll remind you of Jovanovic Dragon, that he was offered to make an anthem, and since that anthem was not accepted, then his satirical poems "Jututun soup" and others... I want to say that the issue of an anthem is very complex, especially in the Balkans, especially with our experiences, especially in these times when we are all intertwined with each other and when this policy "and" has to get at the fullness of its capacity, so that not those who are destructive, so that those who abuse emotions don't lead to that because of these things, which are symbolic, which are the symbols of the state, are the problems where they shouldn't be and where they're not completely gone. For me, the part in the bill of law that says it will develop national identity is problematic. An anthem that is present is an anthem that reflects exclusively the image of the majority people. What we've been saying all along is that in this anthem we need to install elements of other peoples and of all national minorities, without contesting the right of the majority people to also have the greatest share in the anthem. A little bit she goes into religious rights as well. Why? Because it includes part of a song that is sung in churches as a church song. That is why it is very important to close this problem in such a way that we say that it is the anthem of the Republic of Serbia, not of the Serb anthem, that it is an an anthem that reflects the picture of Serbia as a whole as a space that is such that 70% of the majority of the people and 30% of the minority peoples are in it and that 30% must be recognized in the anthem, both in the symbols and in everything else. Why? Because that way we will have the right to say that we are a space that connects different cultures, different peoples, different traditions. Then the possibility will be closed that someone abuses it, especially since we have the National Minority Act, which also allows national minorities to have their own anthem within the Republic of Serbia, to have their symbols. If we say that the national anthem of the state will be performed on September 1st, it would be good to add that after the national anthem of the state it will also be performed for members of minority peoples, those who want it, and their national anthem. This completely prevents anyone from abuse, from manipulating these things, because we had cases of certain members of my people making certain performances, saying one thing and doing the other, saying against the anthem of the Republic of Serbia, and here they stand calmly at its performance. They speak against the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia, and they sing that anthem there when some of the official events are. So that's the policy of pulsism. We don't want a politicians policy. We want a policy of real values, maintaining real values that will reflect everything that we are as members of minority peoples in this country, but also as citizens of the Republic of Serbia with all those who represent them, and that is what is given in the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry I wasted all my time on this, and I had to talk about the laws proposed by the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11590	Thank you. Just to point out that the system is currently full. I don't want to erase anyone. Just to point out to the ministers that if someone wants to say a word to me because they can't sign up in this system. The next is authorised representative, or president of the United Valley Group - SDA Sandzak, MP Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11591	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, respected citizens, ladders, good afternoon. Today, what we expected is that we are required by law to oblige students of all schools in Serbia to start their school year by intonating the "God of Justice" hymn. It's expected, because something else can't be expected of this government and this government. To date, you have failed to provide citizens of the Republic of Serbia with better economy, prosperity, justice, better health, better education, more rights and a better perspective. That is why you are now talking about the Serbian world, you are calling for the pride and dignity of the Serbian people, for its historical glory. You hide behind nationalism through patriotism with negativism and pulsism, hiding the dark sides of the near past, hiding your present failures. This is your national novel, your construction and your narrative. You're spreading this in your public space, but also in your education system. Today you have decided to add to education a component of the legal obligation to intonate the anthem "God of Justice", by the logic that we teach children to love the country by the models of some countries in the world. Logically, it is easier to indoctrination students with national narrative than to have dreams for quality education and life perspective. You run the so-called so-called. the politics of love for the country, while you make their country more and more inappropriate for life. One thing is certain – there will be fewer students with you every year who will sing an anthem, not only because they do not feel it, but also because they leave Serbia physically every day. Of course, your argument is that intonating an anthem is an obligation towards the state and the nation, because the state for a citizen is not only a question of rights, but also an obligation. You forget that not a small number of you here in parliament or your predecessors have supported, silently or directly, the whistle, the humiliation of the former anthem of the former Yugoslavia while these symbols were still state symbols. At that time, Serbia was more important than the state. Today when your Serbia is a state you are calling for institutional, constitutional and legal love, responsibility and loyalty of citizens to the state. On the other hand, today's song "Mars na Drin", which, according to Biljana Srbanovic, is used in the spirit of Lili Marlen, is becoming more and more Serbian anthem than "God of Justice". She could not resist Vuk Jeremic as he chaired the UN Assembly, nor Novak Djokovic in Sydney. While today you are talking about the institutional, constitutional and legal loyalty of citizens to the state, many of you publicly or secretly support those who whistle in Banja Luka, Mitrovica or Knin and humiliate the symbols, anthem, constitution and laws of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo or Croatia. Serbia was not fond of Adem Ljajic, who played for the Serbian team, following the example of Karim Benzem who did not agree to sing "Marseljez", refused to sing "God of Justice". The same Adem Ljajic, who starred with four "S" and his goals, made all of Serbia feel proud, became secessionist, separatist and anti-Serbian overnight just because he didn't want to sing "God of Justice". On the other hand, the parents of Ilija Ivic of Gracanica, Kosovo, were expelled from work under Belgrade's direct order because their son expressed his readiness to play football for the Kosovo national team, to play under one flag without ethnic symbols and under an anthem without text. Even before he started playing, Ilija Iljevic became a Serbian traitor, and his parents were out of a job. So, Bosnjak Adem Ljajic or Serbian Ilija Ilija Ivic are two names that talk a lot about your state policy, this same policy that today requires us to vote to necessarily become the intonation of the "God of Justice" anthem at the beginning of the school year. This is a policy committed to the assimilation of not Serbs in ethnically national Serbia and not the integration of Serbs in other non-ethnic states. In your country you want assimilation, in other countries you don't want integration either, because you want the state for yourself, preferably for yourself personally. But the question arises – what are today's ideological currents that feed such policies, including mandatory intonation of anthem in schools? They belong to the same ideological current of reactionism, identityism, racism, neofascism and neocolonialism. Everywhere, as Victor Orban's most fiery supporters, Janez Janša, Erik Zemur to Vladimir Putin, all those who have empathy towards Alexander Vukic's rule. This is your proposal today, but the political spirit belongs to this plow. This is a policy of negation of the Republic, anti-modernism, negation of diversity. The politics of those who want pure-blooded entities, who want a nation based on the same blood cells, who would want a monarchy. That's why you don't mind these suggestions. Of course, you will not normally follow the development of the region. The Anthem of Slovenia addresses all people in the world, wishing there would be no wars, that neighbours would not be devils to each other and that all people would live freely. Montenegro's anthem does not mention Montenegrins and their territories, while BiH and Kosovo's anthem mentions no one, because they are melodies. In the state anthem of Serbia, a country where 22 national minorities live, which is heterogeneous of all countries in the region, Serbs and Serbs are mentioned 15 times, while 10 times God is called to save, feed, and unite exclusively the Serbian world and its countries territorially bounded in your thoughts and territorially defined in your historical ambitions. So the "God of Justice" anthem was created on an ethnically pure model. That is why it is logical that this anthem is not experienced by Serbs, but by many progressive Serbs. Today, instead of having an anthem change initiative written in 872 by Jova Djordjevic, according to the model of the Russian Empire, we have a proposal for a new anthem adapted to the modern republic that would be acceptable to the largest number of members of all communities, you took this step to legally oblige students to start an anthem on the first day of school. We understand that today you will also legalise the obligation to intonate this anthem for students of schools in Serbia. You have legalized many other injustices, but don't forget, legalism has introduced racism, anti-Semitism, even Nazism, but history is known. In the end, those who resisted won. Legalists lost. We don't have students for "God of Justice", but we have even less Albanians for it. That's why I urge you to vote against this law, against this member because of students, because of democracy, because of the need for modernity. Spare the students from the anthem, spare the schools from nationalism. Give them a quality education for decent employment. It's the anthem they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11592	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Life of Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11593	I am reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure, article 107 - violation of dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here we have had a drastic example of demeaning and denying the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, one of the basic features of the statehood of the Republic of Serbia among others and the anthem "God of Justice". This previous statement, I would say, was rather written precisely by those who burned the flag in Tirana yesterday and also threatened and violated the basic symbol of the Republic of Serbia, which is a flag, as is the anthem of "God of Justice". It is said that Serbia is the same state. Is Davorin Jenko, who wrote this anthem in 1872, the great Serb, the hegemonist who bothers everyone and who today violates national and interethnic relations in Serbia? Of course not. The burning of the flag, the denial of the national anthem belongs to the Middle Ages. I leave the touching to live in my Middle Ages, and we will continue and we will drag the entire Balkans and all the peoples of the Balkans forward to the 21st century in accordance with the civilization and world standards. What bothers here and what is the essence is actually to mention some anthem called kim. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not recognise that. You know, when you want to invent a nation, then you have to invent history, you have to invent identity symbols. As a rule, the more recent the nation is, its antiquity is older, so it's probably going and calling on the old Ilira or Godmila, or who knows who, but that's not the point either. The point is the following, Kosovo was, is and will be the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11594	Do you want to take the vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure in the day of voting, Mr. Starčević? (No) Okay. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11595	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Rule 108, breach of the Rules of Procedure. You should have warned Mr. People's MP Shaip Camberi about everything he said. I need to look back at what he was saying. So today we have again attacks on Serbs in Strpc by ROSU units. I want to remind, first of all, the citizens, that the Brussels Agreement and part of the Brussels Agreement relating to police, members of ROSU and KSF units should not enter the environment where most Serbs live in Kosovo. Yesterday we had a situation for the flag of the Republic of Serbia to fall in Tirana. In the parliament of the so-called false state of Kosovo, we have a situation that representatives of the Serb list cannot pronounce the word Metohija, and you can, as far as I can see, speak whatever you want. This speaks of the democratic values of the Serbian state and of this National Assembly. What we offer to the whole region, Mr. Kamberi, is the Open Balkans project. There are certain political issues we will never agree on, but let our economies advance. Let's do what President Alexander Vukitch initiated. Yes, the school year began on September 1st by intonating the anthem. It was defined by the Constitution and voted for by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now it's time, Minister, for it to be normal and for it to be the letter of the law. I also believe that we are all obliged, as citizens of this country, to respect the basic symbols of this country: the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think it's much to ask, that's what we're looking for, excuse me, and from the minority peoples living in this country, because most of the European states are using the national signs of the majority people, and the protection of the rights of the national minorities is regulated in the framework of the specific laws that exist in our country as well. As for Kosovo and Metohija, Kosovo was also going to remain Serbia. It will not change Đilas, or Jeremic, or anyone else, or those who have conducted robbery privatisations from 2002 to 2004, and watched as the centuries worse and our cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija and who did not care about it, as they cared about yesterday in Tirana above Serbian flags. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11596	Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) On the basis of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Shaip Kamberi mentioned as a country of supreme freedoms, democracy and tolerance to Slovenia. He said everything was best there. As far as national minorities are concerned, Slovenia has only two national minorities. Just two! Sam said there are 22 national minorities in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11598	Can you just point out which member was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11599	Art. 106th and 107th in relation to Article 108. So that there are only two national minorities in Slovenia, he did not say, but there are 22 national minorities in Serbia. To supplement it, the number of Slovenians in Serbia is 4,033 per last census, or 0.06%. In that Serbia, the country of freedom, Slovenians with 0.06% of the population have the status of a national minority and the advice of a national minority. In Slovenia 2% of Serbs do not have that status. They only have, I think, Hungarians and possibly Italians. So 20,000 Serbs did not get the right to citizenship, they were written, they do not exist in Slovenia, in that country of great freedoms, etc. Serbs, who have 30% more than Slovenians in Serbia, do not have national minority status, while 0.06% of Slovenians in Serbia enjoy national minority status. Another thing Mr. Kamberi did not say, in the 20th century when Serbia and the Serbian people created Yugoslavia that the Yugoslavs also lived on an equal footing, in that non-democracy Yugoslavia, the non-democratic Serbia was the growth of the Albanian population was 700%, and the Serb population remained in the same number. I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11600	Thank you. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. The Minister wants a word. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11601	Thank you. Of course, I have a duty to respond to the speech of MPs, Mr. Camberi, regardless of what he obviously wanted and some kind of provocation, and to become someone who can say whatever he wants in this House, and we, on the other hand, in some strange custom to keep quiet any insult that anyone can do to us, even if it is a representative of the people. Long ago in this House, and here I chaired for almost seven years, I haven't heard a speech of hate, intolerance, disrespect for the state where someone lives, the state where the MP is and which he represents here, i.e. It is part of the people who live here in Serbia in parliament and, of course, disrespect for all of us. I am not saying to the people of Serbia, but to disrespect all citizens of Serbia. I really got hit by this speech. How can someone live like that in this country, drive the roads that were built, go to schools, share the air that we all share, and the ease of saying a sentence tramples on all of us? I think you should apologize to all of us who have done nothing here in this House to offend you. Especially by not proposing one law that exists in most countries of this world, which is to intonate this country's anthem at the beginning of the year. What would you do if you lived in a country where an anthem was intonated every day at the beginning of class? I don't think you live in such a country one word would say. This is the ugly trait of the work of our citizens who are all well in the world, we admire everything, and when something like that is introduced in our country, then it should be trampled on by shoes, insulted by people who respect this country and showed how low we can be in demeaning those who respect this country in which they were born and who are grateful to this country for everything we've got. Yes, the "God of Justice" anthem was created in 1872. It wasn't born yesterday, the day before yesterday. Let me tell you right now, from my cultural domain, that it was actually one final song of a theatre show. Because it became popular in the people, it was taken over and thus became a song accepted by the citizens of this country. Of course, it was not composed by a Serb, composed by Davorin Jenko, composer, Slovenian origin. I don't know why you didn't say that, if everything that bears the omens of a Serb is so terribly painful and insulting in this House. You see, no one has offended you. I have friends who belong to the people you belong to. It never occurred to me to say such an ugly thing about them. But we all live in these places, and if we live in one country, we have an anthem, we have one flag. You know how many lives are in the world, not in Serbia, everywhere in the world given when an anthem is trampled by someone and they're trampled by a flag. Because they're the symbols of the state. They're not symbols of one nation, they're symbols of the state. Yesterday, it was ugly that in a country where politicians from a third country are trying to create and implement a good political idea "Open Balkans", to get close to us, to have a stronger economy, to join together in education, to allow our artists to work together, and to think of someone, a long time ago important politician, to perform protesters and to trample and burn the flag of the Republic of Serbia. What's that for? Who doesn't want peace in our places? Who does it want the Western Balkans to be a permanent territory for mass-force promotion? What, we should never work together, get to know each other, grow up, do some good things, say in movies? No, but we'll always be some place that someone will be nagging at hate, screaming at wars, and we'll always be the couples of that other remnant of Europe, who aren't having this kind of discussion about whether we'll all, and our children, learn to love the country from the youngest years. We don't have another state. Most citizens of this Serbia do not dream of getting up for another anthem. Now, our citizens, when they went on bread for centuries, and lived in other places, say in the United States, their children rise up at the beginning of the year, school classes, and whatever is before the flag of the United States of America, which raises and sings anthem and utters an oath of allegiance to the United States. That's nice to me. Everyone respects their own, at home, in their community. Their Greeks, their Russians, their Poles, their Serbs, their Croats, but they live in the United States and respect the flag-lifting in the school yard and stand up to the anthem of the United States and hold their hand here and utter their oaths to that country, no matter where they came from, regardless of who their parents, grandparents are, depends on the centuries when they settled. This is great, thank you, Minister, for proposing a solution like this, because if we want to survive in these places of ours, we need to restore that love for the country we once had, no matter what it was called. From the youngest days and years of our lives, we should participate in protecting our cultural identity, respecting the anthem and respecting the flag. I say, when I'm visiting some bilateral, multilateral gatherings around the world, an anthem of hosts is intonated. You think I'm always on the territory of some country where my heart is pulling me something? No, but I'm a decent and educated person and I get up and listen to their anthem and I respect the host. And you are citizens of our country. Most of you were born here, most of you go to schools and we're here together and we share the fate of these spaces and so don't teach your children that "God of Justice" anthem isn't their anthem, because it's their anthem, because they live in Serbia, Serbia is their country, because they don't have another country, and they won't have it. That's why I'm saying, I'd like you to raise some strength, say, "I'm sorry" after this discussion, because I know that's the hardest word anyone can say -- sorry, but that's why it's the most valuable thing when someone's wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11602	I'm going to have to delete the list of applicants because the prime minister, the first prime minister of the government, also wants a word. Please sign in. The word is Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11603	I thank you, Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is precisely on the trail of what my colleague Gojkovic said, without wanting to enter or enter the political plane, because it is evident that the background of this whole story is precisely that, I would like to point out that all of us at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, at the head of me, feel pride precisely for the reason that the first recommendation of September 1st of this school year introduced the obligation to intonate anthem, as one of the three most important state symbols, in line with the highest legal act of our country, so the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I feel pride for this proposal that will now norm this honor, not commitment. What is truly surprising is that simply some MPs do not read the existing provisions of existing laws, such as the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which clearly speak in Article 8 of point 15 and Article 16 of the Rules of Procedure on Education and Education, including the development and respect of racial, national, cultural, linguistic, religious, gender, gender and adult equality, tolerance and respect for diversity. This unity of diversity and this wealth that the Republic of Serbia has, with 22 national councils of national minorities, with more than the number of national minorities living in harmony in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are our valuables. That's why we really don't have any reason to talk negatively about all this, but rather affirmatively. Also, this member of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System states that the objectives of education are to develop personal and national identity, develop awareness and sense of belonging to the Republic of Serbia, respect and cherish the Serbian language and native language, tradition and culture of the Serbian people and national minorities, develop interculturality, respect and preserve national and world cultural heritage. We can only be proud of the world's cultural heritage, because we are the ones who inherit this part of the world's cultural heritage just as a people, and this cultural heritage is often hit by the very ones who use this narrative, unfortunately, here in the highest legislative home in the Republic of Serbia. If we take into account the fact that more than 45,000 students in Serbia are attending classes in the languages of national minorities in Serbia, if we take into account all those laws and sets of laws that have been introduced in relation to the rights of national minorities and the preservation of their traditions, languages and letters, official use of language and letters, if we take into account what all the reference international organisations have said and how much praise they have brought to the expense of the Republic of Serbia and the legislative framework, and not only the frameworks, but also the application of those same laws and those provisions in practice, where we are in a much greater proportion than many Member States of the European Union, then it is really not clear that we are listening to such narrative here in this House, when we are singled by some of the least. So is that normal? Does this deserve an apology or unless it is possible to apologize, then at least a sanction, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of this highest house? Such things are inadmissible in a serious democratic state and society. Because if this is the kind of thing that goes through, then we allow some individuals to devalue everything that this government and this country and its president are doing in this previous period. As for the intonation of the anthem, in addition to the pride I truly feel personally, I am delighted that this part of September 1st came to the approval not only in the environments where the majority people live, but also in many other environments where our citizens and citizens represent national minorities. I would like to see what students in Germany do, when the anthem "Dojschland, Dojchland iberales" or Austria, Switzerland, where, also the majority people and the confiscation of the aphirm in many texts of these anthems, have not noticed that the members of one of the people mentioned here, or members of the national minorities, who live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, are strongly and sharply opposed? Well, don't admit those anthems, because you also live in those countries. Don't give us a lecture here and give us a lecture, if we have the right to keep our identity. Well, of course we do. I repeat, I would not want to enter that political plane, but I had the need to react and ask you once again to look at at at least in an objective way everything that this Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing in fields and textbooks, and to allow much better working conditions in the education system, and hiring teachers and obtaining licences, because don't forget you can keep these tracts here, since this is a democratic state, and I still think this should be sanctioned, you can do it on the street, but don't forget that you all live in this country. You, too, are members of the national minority, who has the same rights as all the other citizens and citizens living in this territory, as well as the right to work and employment both in the education system and elsewhere. I thank you, I appeal, and I can also ask you to make an apology as far as possible, for all that you said, and for the anthem of the Republic of Serbia, but the other part, in which you compared this society and this state with the law of Nazism, fascism, I don't know what else you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11604	Mr. Cambery, I believe it's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11605	Thank you. With my political attitudes and the views of my parliamentary group, I will not deem it wrong with anyone. I would like the ministers to read the constitutional principles that speak of the protection and improvement of the rights of national minorities and the prohibition of assimilation, I would like to know which country in which an anthem is intonated daily by schools. We heard, I hope it's not Belarus. If you have read the whole anthem, the last verse, that anthem, it says "pray the Serbian world". Why would the other world commit to that? And before Albanian children commit to intonating the anthem, Mr. Minister, you need to provide them with textbooks that have been missing for decades. It's your first step, it's your first obligation, constitutional obligation, according to those children. This is where you started to implement the Rules of Procedure, which is the responsibility of the President of the Assembly, not yours, or the one who holds the presidency, instead of the President. I am a minority, I know that you will adopt, but being a minority is not something bad, in my opinion, being a minority, I will quote the famous Serbian actor, Ljuba Tadic, who, when asked where he belongs, said politically where there is a minority, because I know that where the minority can be smart, but I certainly know where most are not. That's right, at least the late Ljuba Tadic said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11606	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, advantage, George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11607	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advocating a violation of article 27. - The chairman is obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. I really, with this amount of bile, which was poured out by Mr. Shaip Camberi, come into the situation to wonder, did he, at all, understand what is being debated here today? I, with this attitude of his, am not sure that he understood the bill properly, perhaps he should have been provided in the language of the national minority, whose Mr. Cambery belongs to, because this attitude tells me more that he realized that this is a Lex specialis, which relates to the obligation to pay for electricity to the citizen Shaip Camberi and I simply cannot accept this behavior at all in any other way and understand. This is a constitutional obligation that is indisputable, as is the obligation to pay for electricity and this is not a Lex specialise that imposes an obligation on a citizen, Shaip Kamberi, to pay for the electricity owed to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11608	Thank you. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has a minister, Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11609	Thank you. Without intending to enter the controversy, because it won't come out well, we'll waste a lot of time, really for the truth, I just want to remind you, I hope that in communication with the president and members of the National Council of the Albanian National Minority, and I hope that you have in mind and you have knowledge that in the previous two months, two and a half months, we have been in Bujanovac twice. We had a meeting in Belgrade that involved among other things and the textbooks you're saying the state of Serbia does not allow, does not provide children and so on, which is an ordinary lie. We did it again, as we did last year, one, let's say, one exception, just to make it possible for children to get textbooks. So far, 16 textbooks have been completed, to date literally and approved, three to complete all textbooks. So I'm saying this, not because of you, you know that, I'm saying this for the public, because of these children who, in the same way, have a fair way of giving education, as well as our other children in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You think about what the idea was when you say things like that that don't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11610	Thank you. We're continuing with authorized representatives. The word has the deputy president of the JS parliamentary group, MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11611	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today we are discussing a set of laws in the domain of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, such as the roof law on the foundations of the education and education system, that is, their amendments and additions, as well as amendments to the Law on Preschool, Primary, Medium Education, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Educational Inspection, but also of a completely new law, which is the Law on Innovation Action. Of course, we are also discussing laws from the domains of the Ministry of Culture, the Proposal for a Law on Cultural Heritage, as well as the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media. I would like to start by noticing and commending that the Ministry of Education in the previous year and several days, despite the numerous challenges caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, has managed to deal with large-scale legislative activity. In fact, we have five amendments, or amendments and additions to five educational laws, as a whole new law, and it really is a good thing given the circumstances that our education system is exposed to. This education system of ours, of course, has shown in the previous period that it is stable, that it is flexible, that it is capable of developing, perfecting, implementing new and modern solutions in our education system. And the education system is, I really have to notice, it's not like some other systems, like. The electricity system, because when problems and congestion occur, the electricity system can be repaired and compensated for lost, but if the education system stopped, the damage would be irreparable to entire generations of young people, and therefore irreparable damage to the future of the entire society and the state. Namely, Maxim Gorki said – the children are our judges tomorrow. And indeed, we must not ourselves, nor allow ourselves, the next day some of our successors, some of our future generations, to speak of us as people who are irresponsible, who risked their future, for the sake of some of their own inertness. I like to often quote the thought of Lao Ce, who said that education is like rowing upriver. The moment you stop rowing, the queen pulls you back to the end. And indeed, we must not stop rowing, we must continue to perfect and adapt our education system to the needs of children, the needs of society and the needs of the projection of our society and the state in some future. I therefore commend the desire and will of the Ministry of Education and the understanding of the state and the medical work of the Crisis Headquarters that our children go to school as much as possible and thus, through direct educational work, through the direct form of work, the students get as much as possible from our education system can afford them. Of course, we were also in a situation where we had to give up on some occasions of this direct form of work, when we went online teaching and a lot of it was done by the Ministry of Education on this issue and on the matter of shooting classes. I would say that the Jagodina School Administration, which I am employed in, recorded 255 lessons and this opportunity I would like to thank both teachers and professional associates, schools, and advisors at the School Administration. I lay down, of course, the Ministry's efforts to continue with intensive work in addition to all the problems, to what we educators often refer to as the "softver of Education", which is to work on improving the educational process, working on raising the quality of teaching and learning, working on developing the competences of all the factors in the education process, of course, above all students who are always in our focus, but also through teachers, professional associates, parents, etc. In that sense, I think we should also observe the proposed laws that are ahead of us and will certainly be supported by the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day. Of course, the Ministry worked, but the whole state and so on. educational hardware, as I would say. A number of new schools have been built, refurbished existing schools, the state has made efforts to have modern IT equipment, that even in the remotest isolated primary schools departments, they have high-quality Internet access, not just for themselves, but above all, so that the conditions for our children's education are as high-quality as possible, and teaching as modern and monitoring modern world education flows. This cannot and must not be, of course, the work of the state and the Ministry of Education alone, it must also be the work of local self-government, because education is not a cost but an investment. So, for example, the Jagodina from which I come as an MP has built and opened a completely new school in Vinoraca, which is the joy of the children there, a very nice and pleasant environment in which they are educated. Of course, an abundance of information and other equipment has been obtained, and all for improving the quality of teaching and learning. But let's go back to the laws we're discussing. The draft law amending and supplementing the law on the foundation of the system of education, as well as the law on high school, deals with one issue, which I find so particularly important and interesting, which is the issue of state graduation. State graduation is one of the two most significant national exams, and has three very important functions, the minister also mentioned it, such as certification, selection and evaluation. The certification, because national graduation is a mid-school exam, as is the final exam, is a type of certificate, to complete primary education, so the state's graduation will be a certificate for completed high school. The second function, is selection, because the state's graduation will be a test that will replace the entrance exams at most high school institutions and thus select students, but of course what is very important to me coming from education, that is, that state graduation will be an instrument for improving the quality of education and education, based on an external assessment of school work, through the results of students at the state graduation. These are all the functions that he has, of course, and the final exam in elementary schools and final exams and national graduations, are two of the most important national exams. Of course, national graduation in Serbia will be held since 2023, for high school students, or in 2024, for high school and other secondary schools. It should be noted that it is planned in April 2022 in our country to conduct a second piloting of state graduations, and it will include a test of all activities that take place before and after the state graduation exams. The process will be attended by all fourth grade students of all public and private schools, they will take the test, and part of the students will take the practical part of the prom exam. Of course, the Ministry of Education will prepare and publish an expert manual for the implementation of the State Graduation, as well as with the expert manual for the conduct of the final exam and what is most important throughout the project, is that all students understand the importance of the State Graduation, means that it is understood by both directors and parents, teachers, students, and in this sense all of those target groups will be given appropriate lectures and training, in order to put an emphasis on the fact that this state exam is of paramount importance for the selection of colleges or further occupations. Of course, in order to prepare such serious exams, it was also necessary that this law also regulates the introduction of a test centre at the Education and Educational Quality Assessment Institute, in order to create conditions for the preparation and conduct of national examinations that achieve a certain level of education, as well as international studies. As for the Law on Preschool Education and Education and Change and Supplements, the most important and most interesting newspaper is the possibility of achieving a programme in a foreign language, or bilingually in a foreign language and in a Serbian language, or in a foreign language and language of a national minority. So much for discrimination against national minorities in our country. Today, knowledge of foreign languages is certainly a standard and something that is meant and when we talk about professional labour, when we talk about quality education, and it is known that foreign languages are best learned in the early stages of childhood, in early childhood, so that the introduction of these programmes of pre-school education and education in a foreign language, i.e. bilingually, is very important. What is also interesting to me, and they bring changes and a law on basic education and education, is that changes are being made to basic music schools, where a programme of secondary music education and education can be extremely achieved. The introduction of this possibility means a more rational and efficient treatment, in a situation where on a local self-government unit, there is a basic music school and there is a great interest in teaching students to continue in middle music education. For example, in Pomorava County, we have three elementary music schools, and here I don't count a school for musical talents, which is specific, which works according to special programs, according to special forms of work, but these three elementary music schools in Jagodina, Ćuprija and Paracina, currently attends about 807 students. Of course, a large number of these children would continue middle music education, but the nearest high school of music is in Kragujevac, and it is certainly one of the factors of deterring from further music education. I think this legal solution is good and this paper is good, because it will provide new opportunities for further education, music education of young generations. This set of all laws introduces the so-called JOB, which is a uniquely educated number, which will enable us to monitor development, in fact the point of that and the most important thing, will allow us to follow the development of students from pre-school institutions to the labour market and to look at the quality of education and consider the needs for its promotion. The amendments to the Law on Fundamental Education also specify the obligations of parents, or other legal representative, to ensure that the student regularly attends the school, it is also required to inform the school of reasons, possibly the lack of teaching students and for reasons in which there are also objective circumstances in which the parent cannot be provided within three days to ensure that the student continues to attend the course on a regular basis. Finally, something about a new Law on Innovation Work. You are well here, Ministers, noticed, the development of science, technological development, and the development of innovation activities is one of the basic elements of sustainable development in each country and every society. We had this law that was passed in 2005, which was changed in 2012 and 2013, but not something fundamental and here, we now have a law that allows the integration of the innovation system of the Republic of Serbia into the European Research Area and the Innovation Union. The innovation system is directed towards research that results in innovative products and processes that stimulate economic and social development, and also plans to remove barriers to access to financial resources and encourage technology transfer to the economy. In the end, Minister, I would talk about something that as a man who has worked his whole life and is related to education and is conducting an educational policy, about a phenomenon that has been becoming increasingly present in our schools lately, about the phenomenon that we are following, which we are trying to prevent and prevent, which is violence in schools, and all forms of violence, from peer violence, Internet violence and any other form. Of course our schools and the Ministry are working on it, but in order to successfully cope with this negative phenomenon, the whole society must be involved. We simply witness that from the media through movies, the Internet, video games, children of early childhood, violence is imposed as an acceptable form of behavior. This also contributes to a number of public figures who, as idols of young people, often avoid domestic violence and any other violence and thus serve children violence, as a model for solving life situations. Not to mention, you also have situations with the YouTubes, which are active these days, you have situations with individual politicians who resorted to domestic violence, that I don't go back to all that. That's what we have to get in the way of. Schools must be involved, the whole society must be involved, and hence the appeal in front of the Single Serbia parliamentary group to launch a major social action in the fight to combat violence anywhere, not just at school. It's a good thing that there's a culture minister, it has to be an interdisciplinary approach, it can't be just an obligation of the Ministry of Education and School, but of the whole society, as a culture minister who is responsible for the media, to see that this issue of violence in the media will also be solved, to include the Ministry of Social Labour and Social Policy, to include the MUP, who, by the way, is already working on numerous projects with the Ministry of Education and I think we should continue to do so, but this multidisciplinary approach, or the inclusion of the entire society in one phenomenon, which is here, I look at and I have to confirm that it is so, which is escalating in our schools. To conclude, there is nothing more important than education. There's the biggest bet. Our future depends on quality education in the present. That is why the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support the proposed laws in the voting day and that the God of justice every September is ours and constitutional, and fundamental, human obligation. That's why Serbia lived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11612	I thank the deputy president of the Single Serbia Group. The word has been authorised by a representative of the succeeding group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, National MP Samir Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11613	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, we have before us a set of education and education laws, whose changes and additions aim to increase the quality of education and education systems. The adoption of these five laws will allow for harmonisation with the objectives and reforms of education. In the beginning, I will refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System and to some newspapers that this bill adopts. One newspaper refers to the achievement of a preschool preparatory programme when a small number of children are unable to form a five-grader educational group to teach. In that case, children join students of a combined class where they are taught by a class teacher. This has so far been a practice in rural areas of the Republic of Serbia, so in isolated departments, it was just not contained in the law. Now the legislator has defined that the preschool prep programme can also perform class classes and I think that's a good solution. Another of the proposed additions to the law on the basis of the education and education system concerns the education of the Commission for Religious Education, which should follow the organisation and achievement of religious teaching. Among other things, the Commission is giving an opinion on the lists of teachers of religious teaching. Schools get lists with large numbers of proposed credentials. However, among them are those already professionally engaged as religious persons in religious facilities, so in churches or mosques. I believe that the Commission can narrow down the range of proposed creditors to those who are not professionally already engaged and those who have a pedagogical direction of adequate theological education. I think the legislator would have to find a way to find a solution to how religious teaching should improve and avoid such situations. Believers, I believe, will be hired only at school, to carry out all their duties, as well as other teachers from carrying out pedagogical documentation, to attend sessions of expert bodies. That's why I think they should only be hired at school. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the founding of the system of education and education defines more precisely the procedure for dispensing members of the school management body, i.e. members of the school board, whether from the ranks of employees, local self-government and parent advice. It's a newspaper that promotes this law. What I would particularly like to point out is that this bill first defines the role of the school management body in relation to the responsibility of the director. The managing authority has been prescribed the possibility to educate the Commission to conduct disciplinary proceedings against the Director, as well as to decide the Director's responsibility for the serious obligation of working injury. For this, I also think it was a good solution and it was necessary. The draft law also specifies the composition of the competition commission in the selection of staff in the institution, leaving out the secretary of the institution, but which is obliged to provide professional support for the work of the Commission. The two-stage procedure is then very clearly defined, i.e. the possibility of a candidate who is not satisfied with the Director's decision on the selection of candidates to appeal to the Authority's management body. What I want to point out is that the Competition Commission for Labour Reception is appointed by the Director. In that case, the Director can influence the commission. My opinion is that the Commission should be appointed by the managing authority or the school board. Since the law prescribes that the Commission numbers at least three members, which means there may be more, say five, and what should be taken into account is the composition of the commission. A member of the Commission may, for example, be an expert associate, a teacher of a related group of cases for which the candidate competes, but I think it is unacceptable for the competition committee to, for example, teach mathematics, to be an auxiliary worker, and there have been such situations, I am just coming from practice, from basic education, and I am not saying this by heart. I think the Ministry of Education must find a solution in this case for some future period to avoid these situations. The amendments to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System also bring the Preschool Education Act into line, as well as the other educational laws that are on the agenda today. The changes define that a preschool program can perform a class teacher, which I've already talked about. Then I'd like to make an addition to a member who's prescribing child records for a single educational number, which we call "JOB." A JOB assigned to the child is specified as an integral part of the child's records, as well as the way in which data are entered in the context of the records kept by the institution and the public documents issued. So from preschool age, a student is assigned JOB which later, throughout education, contains all that information about the child, the student, about his achievements. As for the draft law on changes and additions to the Law on Fundamental Education, I think it is important to amend the possibility that a basic music school can also implement a secondary music education and education programme, as if there is enough interest in local self-government for students who have graduated from primary music school, and let's say that there is no high school of music even in the nearby environment as in the small environments from which I come, for example, the municipality of Prepolje, and the municipalities in the environment do not have a secondary music school, and they have enough students of basic music schools. I believe that it is appropriate to amend the law governing the organisation of educational work by defining the work of the combined department in the course in question from the fifth to eighth grade, where the number of students remains the same as in the classroom. I think this is necessary and I understand exactly why it's in the new law. The proposal for a law has been amended to specify that, in the context of a team carrying out a previous knowledge check, a teacher may be taught in situations where a previous knowledge check is carried out in children over 12 years of age. In this way, the expertise and competence of the commission is increased, so by introducing this commission and the teacher concerned. As regards the proposal for a law on educational inspection, I will pay attention, in addition to the harmonisation of terminology, the Republic Educational Inspector and the option for educational inspectors to be uniform, which I consider to be okay and acceptable, I will pay attention to Article 10(4), which will read in the new law: “If an educational inspector does not remove any identified irregularities within the time limit, the Republic Educational Inspector shall be authorised to propose, in accordance with the law, to initiate a disciplinary procedure against that inspector, as well as against his direct supervisor” etc. So that's one newspaper I also think is good for. Simply, more responsible work of municipal education inspectors is required in situations where they sometimes fail, and I consider the role of an educational inspection to be very important. They should act advisoryly, act preventively, but also more appropriate measures when necessary. And while I am still in the field of education and education, I am obliged to inform the Minister of Education and all of you in front of the Ministry of Education, as I was already speaking about a year ago, that the object of the sports hall in Brodarev is not yet open. Two-and-a-half years of teaching is not done in that newly built facility. I asked for the Ministry's support and came across a really good answer and a good co-operation. After several meetings and talks not only with the assistant minister and minister, but also with representatives of other relevant entities, let me say, such as the Emergency Sector, local self-government, so we're still on the same page. The gym's closed, the students can't teach in that facility, which I think is a huge damage. It seems to me like someone or won't or can't do their job. I will repeat once again that nothing should be above the children's interests above the students' interests. The local self-government has given firm assurances that finance is not a problem. If someone thinks it's an excuse, then they even tried to solve the problem, but it's still standing and I hope we get together. Here, I have launched the initiative and you as a ministry and local self-government in some future period find a solution to open this facility. As far as the Cultural Heritage Act is concerned, the Republic of Serbia has invaluable heritage from all cultures and peoples living and living in these areas. This implies all the goods that are inherited from previous generations or are created in the present, and have a specific value for people and should be preserved for future generations. Although created and shaped in the past, cultural heritage is very important in the concept and creation of our present, as well as the planning and creation of our future. The complexity of Serbia's cultural heritage is due to the centuries-long influences of different civilizations and cultures, making this area rich, diverse cultural heritage. The value of cultural heritage, whether it's material or immaterial, is constantly increasing because of the natural conditioned duration, but also because of the development of new technologies and changes in style and lifestyle. Therefore, the concern of preserving cultural heritage in the 21st century is not only the obligation of competent institutions, but also the moral role of the entire modern society, which, recognising the importance of cultural heritage, creates conditions for its preservation and future. The starting point is the understanding of heritage, and when it is understood, it can be appreciated. When the inheritance is valued, then the need is created to protect itself, and when it is protected, it can also be enjoyed. The Cultural Heritage Act aims to establish a legal framework for the full protection and preservation of cultural heritage and cultural goods in a unique way, regardless of the form in which it is created and where it is located, as well as the space for future incentives for permanent investment in cultural heritage. This law regulates issues relating to the creation, preservation, protection of cultural goods, competences and work of cultural heritage protection institutions and obligations and rights of owners and holders. The proposed legal solutions also regulate the issues of immaterial cultural heritage and lay the legal basis for regulating specific areas of protection of cultural heritage. This is the first time the area of cultural heritage has been defined by a specialised law, since cultural heritage has so far been regulated by the 1994 Cultural Goods Act, which, according to its character and general regulation, regulated common general issues of protection of cultural goods. The new law has been improved and in line with EU regulations, and I would refer to some of the newspapers that this bill adopts. The new legal solution allows for an extension of the time limit for confirming the properties of the cultural goods that lasts two years for movable goods and for a fixed three years, and for another two or three years if there is a reasonable reason for that. So it's not the whole process to confirm the properties of the cultural good over and over again, it's looking for an extension of a five-year period. Also, this article clearly states that mobile and immovable cultural goods are recorded, which was not the case in the current Cultural Goods Act, but only the notion of cultural well-being is mentioned. The bill also specifies the termination of previous protection of cultural goods, as well as that cultural goods registers are public. The proposal for this law clearly and more specifically regulates the right to prevent the purchase of cultural goods compared to the current Cultural Goods Act. The bill says that the right to prevent the purchase of cultural goods in private property has a Republic of Serbia, as well as that the Republic of Serbia can give up the right to prevent purchases. As regards Chapter 12 of this Law on import, import, export and export of mobile cultural goods, as well as the vomiting of all cases unlawfully brought out of the territory of the Member States of the European Union, I also believe that this is one step forward, though, members of the law concerning this matter can only apply when the Republic of Serbia is part of the European Union, which I want and I hope it will soon be, but in that case we will not have to change the law, at least in this part. Finally, the draft law covers a single member much clearer and more precise than the previous Law on Cultural Goods, where as many as five members regulated this area. Finally, I would just look back once again at the fact that the new law first recognized the immaterial cultural heritage that covers traditional crafts, nutrition, customs, methods of oral expression and performance of folk games and songs, and which communities of heritage and carry them from generation to generation as a mark of their own identity. Thus, on the list of elements of the immaterial cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia, the Christian glory, the pyrotic cylimism, the lollipop pottry, the market mantium, the erotic humor, and not to add any further. I just want to express my hope that soon this list will include a fruit, a treat for the traditional kitchen of Bosniaks. The initiative to include the future on the list of elements of the immaterial cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia has launched the House of Culture Prepolje, which has for several years been organising a traditional event "Cétenica with a song and a game", to preserve from forgetting the customs and way of preparing this treat. The cultural heritage of Bosniaks, with all its personalities and specificities, is part of the multicultural space of Sandzak and the Republic of Serbia. Its preservation, as well as the preservation and promotion of all cultures that have lived in this area for centuries, will be guaranteed that we have managed to create a society that respects diversity on the one hand, supports the cultural diversity and recognises it as the exceptional value of the Sanjay region, while on the other hand seeking higher human and moral values that raise the quality of everyday life of every citizen. All laws that are on the agenda today and those that I have not been able to talk about, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11614	I thank the authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group. The word has the mandated representative of the PUPS parliamentary group - "Tri P", the vice-president of the National Assembly, MP Stefan Krkobic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11615	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President Kovac. Dear Vice-President Ruzic, today we have a set of educational laws with other laws on the agenda today, in particular the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconstruction of the Education and Education System, and in this package we will discuss today and from it the acts, i.e. amendments and additions to the laws governing the field of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education. So every time we here in the highest legislative body are dealing with issues of education, education and education of young generations and general enlightenment, we must, as a lighthouse to ourselves, have the personality of the most prominent educators from these places. We from the PUPS Parliament Club – "Three P" therefore remind us today that our most clever ancestors, the greatest people in the world, have left us with the task of raising and educating those who will remain behind us with the greatest attention, commitment and responsibility. All of them from Cyril and Methodius, the first Slovenian Enlighteners, the second of whom, as an episcope, sat in Sirmium and most likely buried in Mačvanski Mitrovica. From the Holy Sava, whose work to enlighten the Serbian people began with his return from St. Gora to the Manastir Studenic, which then became the centre of Serbian church and educational life. And what education and how much it meant in medieval Serbia is seen from the writings of the monk Grigori of the XV century. We also remember the names of the largest reformer of the Serbian language, Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic, as well as Dosite Obradovic, the great Serbian Enlightener and Reformer of the revolutionary period, the national awakening and rebirth of founders and professors of the Great School, the predecessor of Belgrade University, the first Enlightener of Education in the Ruler's Council, the advocate of equal rights to the education of male and female children, who died exactly 210 years ago. And yes, Dositej Obradovic is also the author of the ceremony song "Vojsti Serbi" and therefore we should be particularly proud. And here I especially thank Minister Ruzic for the fact that this law that we are discussing today will contain Article 28 in which he writes – educational and probationary work is being achieved during the school year which begins on 1 September by performing anthem of the Republic of Serbia and ends on 31 August of the following year. And this is all in the light of the role of educational-experienced institutions, and the work and development of the national identity of students, as well as the awareness and feelings of belonging to the Republic of Serbia. The main reason for the adoption of this law is the timely creation of conditions for an effective and professional preparation for the implementation of exams ending a certain level of education. Under this law, the general, professional and artistic graduation will first be attended by students enrolled in high school since school 2020/2021. the year, i.e. the first exams will be organised school 2023/2024. years, and generations before that will take place in the meantime, an optional pilot graduate. Dear People's MPs, it has also been carried out to adopt the relevant provisions of specific laws – the Law on Fundamental Education and Education and the Law on Middle Education and Education, which relate to the adoption of a plan and programme of religious teaching, as well as to the provision of a Committee on Religious Education for a more efficient procedure. In an institution whose founder is the Republic, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, free education and education of children are provided in the year prior to school, primary education and education of pupils and adults, secondary education of regular and extraordinary students. There is also an important member who is transferred to the other three laws in amendments and additions to the Law on Preschool, Primary and Secondary Educational Process, which includes the establishment of a unique educational number accompanying his institution through all levels of formal education and education and through informal education, and is the key to connecting all data on the child, student, student, adult and candidate. Data on children, pupils and adults and other legal agents are entered in the register of children, students, adults and students through a unique educational number and contain the following data: data to determine the identity of children, pupils and adults, data to determine the educational status of children, pupils and adults, and data to determine the social status of children, pupils and adults. The first concrete law, if we follow the age of our children, is the bill on amendments and additions to the Preschool Education and Education Act. The reason for this and three other laws to follow lies in the process of adopting laws on amendments and additions to the Law on the founding of education and education systems, which improves individual solutions in the field of education and education. For example, the single educational number already mentioned is introduced for both preschoolers and founding students and high school students. Educational work is done in Serbian, while for members of the national minority educational and educational work is done in the language of the national minority, and can also be achieved bilingually in the language of the national minority and in the Serbian language, if at least 50% of parents, or other legal representative of children, are defined. Part of the preschool education and education programme or programme in general can also be achieved in a foreign language, or bilingually in a foreign language and in a Serbian language or bilingually in a foreign language and in the language of a national minority. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, it is interesting that it introduces the possibility that, for example, The basic music school as a specific art school is also a programme of secondary music education and education. It is also worth pointing out that from now on, a student with exceptional, or special abilities will have the right to finish elementary school through the first class of high school music, or ballet school. School for children with developmental disorders and disability will achieve educational-experienced work in accordance with the individual educational plan of students. The department of the same class will be able to have up to 30 students, the very same class can have up to 33 students with the consent of the Ministry of Education. In one department, up to two students with developmental and disability disorders can be found. A teaching programme for religious teaching on a harmonised proposal for traditional churches and religious communities, according to the body responsible for affairs and relations with churches and religious communities, will be brought by a resolution minister. The obligations of parents, or another legal representative of the child, are also specified, in addition to being obliged to ensure that the student regularly attends the course, it is also required to inform the school of the reasons for the potential lack of students from school. The possibility of a parent informing the school was established because there are objective circumstances in which a parent will not be able to ensure within three days that the student continues to attend school regularly, such as: in the case of a student’s disease or in other justified cases where the student is unable to continue the course regularly within that time limit. Dear People's MPs, the following is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Middle Education and Education. The work of secondary education and education is carried out in high school and this is a high school, a professional school, an art school, a mixed school, a school for students with developmental disorders and disability. Adequate general and professional education and education in three-year and four-year durations for the performance of relevant professions and for the continuation of education in higher education institutions shall be obtained in a professional school. Professional school can also receive specialist and master's education for up to two years and other forms of vocational education: education for working for two years, vocational training and training for up to one year. Mandatory forms of educational-experienced work for a regular student are as follows: teaching, theoretical, practical, exercises, additional, supplementary teaching and practice when determined by plan and programme of teaching and learning, preparatory teaching and socio-helpful work if during the school year there is a need for it. The student must choose from the list of electoral programs religious education or civic education. Faculty forms of educational and educational work are also the teaching of the language of national minorities with elements of national culture, second, third language and subjects needed for further education, professional training or development of students and extracurricular forms, such as chorus, orchestra, theatre, excursion, cultural and artistic, technical, invention, humanitarian, sports-recreative and other activities. The distance teaching is carried out at the reasoned request of the parents, or another legal representative for each school year. Finally, as regards a set of laws in the field of education, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Educational Inspection. He, respected MPs, prescribes that educational inspection in the exercise of inspection supervision, in addition to pre-school, primary and secondary education and education, dual education, higher education, textbooks, student and student standards, examines the application of laws and regulations governing the field of science, research into the national framework of qualifications of the Republic of Serbia. The new provisions relating to student status and the protection of students' rights are also specified, such as the issue of public documents because of an increasing number of cases that are required to verify the procedures for issuing public documents and the credibility of public documents. Dear People's MPs, because of what I have mentioned today, the PUPS parliamentary group – The Three P will support legislative proposals from the field of education. Before I move on to the topic of culture, we must commend the work of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, Honored Minister Ruzic. I don't think there was enough to say about that here. He proved at a difficult moment, during the pandemic, how the ministry should be run, and we remembered some of his predecessors that more, they would agree with me, deal with other things, maybe worry more about their complexion, and less about this topic and education. Therefore, all congratulations and all support regarding the management of the ministry itself. As far as the Cultural Heritage Act is concerned, I won't owe it. I would point out that the PUPS parliamentary group – Three Ps particularly commends the Ministry of Culture that, in defining the term "cultural heritage in danger" has also suggested that, among other things, it is a cultural heritage which is exposed to a great danger that could have adverse consequences for its essential characteristics, such as natural disasters, but also riots, armed conflicts or dangers from their appearance, an occupation in general or in part, an impact on the territory in which it is well located, a change of protection regimes in planned documents that are contrary to its values and importance for culture and history. This, distinguished MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, has been unequivocally made known to separatists in Kosovo and Metohija, but also to their international tutors, that the Republic of Serbia will never, at any cost, give up on its part of the territory -- Kosovo and Metohija, of that part of its own identity, therefore, never give up on itself. The aim of this law is otherwise to establish a legally regulated and organised system of protection and preservation of cultural heritage through the detection, collection, research, of course, and documentation, study and evaluation and management of cultural heritage. In all of this, the PUPS Group – Three Ps will support legislative solutions on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11616	I thank the authorised representative of the PUPS Group - Three P, Vice-President of the National Assembly. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11617	We're going back to work. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, MP Nandor Kish.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11618	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. Ministers with Associates, Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen People's MPs, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that the parliamentary group of the Duke Hungarian Union in the voting day will support the proposed amendments and additions to the laws on today's agenda of the session. During my presentation, I will pay the most attention to the laws in the field of education, more specifically to the amendments and to the law on the basis of the education and education system on pre-school, primary and secondary education and education, as well as to the educational inspection. Today's debate aims to establish the basis for the future of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, to bring the amendments and amendments to the laws in line with the Strategy for Development of Education and Education in the Republic of Serbia by 2030, adopted in June 2021 by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, whose overall goal is to increase the quality of teaching and learning, justice and availability of university education and education and enhanced educational function of educational institutions. I would like to highlight some of the important changes that we, as a parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, support, as we do for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System determine the basis for other laws, so as to constitute a source for other changes in laws, as well as their alignment with the Action Plan, which forms an integral part of the education and education strategy of the Republic of Serbia by 2030. The Institute for the Valuation of the Quality of Education and Education is an important part of our education system, and it will also have tasks in the future that are related to education in the languages of national minorities. In particular, these are the making of tests and instructions for the assessment of the final exam carried out in the languages of national minorities in co-operation with national councils of national minorities and the production of publications of working materials and manuals for the preparation of exams in the languages of national minorities, also in collaboration with national councils of national minorities. Given that the Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education will have extended competences in the future, it is important that good co-operation with national councils of national minorities continues in this enlargement. For the purpose of keeping a register, with the maximum protection of personal data, the introduction of a single educational number, etc. is under way. JOB, which monitors its institution through all levels of formal education and education and through informal education, from the first day the child is enrolled in a preschool institution, as the first level of education and is the key not only to connect all data on the child, student, student, adult and candidate, but also helps us to follow the individual through the education system throughout all years at all levels of education. JOB represents the individual and most favourable mark, which consists of 16 characters and which is assigned to the child, the student, the adult and the student, in the automated procedure. This is a very useful way to track students and keep track of their progress in the education system. One of the data being kept on a student in the system is a national identity. Although the declaration of national identity under the Constitution is not mandatory, our MP group is extremely glad that the ministry has found a way to monitor national identity, not only students but also teachers. Namely, the register that runs educational and experimental institutions contains information about the mother tongue of the child, as well as information on the mother tongue of the teacher, as well as information on the language of the previous acquired education. All this data will serve as very useful information in introducing educational policies in the field of minority education in the future. On the basis of these data, measures and means of improving and developing the education system in the languages of national minorities may be adjusted. We believe that without this co-operation, it would not be possible to teach quality in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the languages of national minorities, as it is necessary for students of national minorities to ensure the same conditions in their native language, as well as for the majority people. Another news is that the provisions of the special laws relating to the Committee on Religious Education will apply. The Commission will monitor the organisation and implementation of religious teaching at school. The Commission consists of one representative of traditional churches and religious communities, three representatives of the body responsible for dealings with churches and religious communities and three representatives of the ministry. The Commission proposes a plan and a programme of religious instruction that will eventually be brought by the minister. We are sure that the Commission will do its job in the best possible way, because it will be attended by one representative from all traditional churches and religious communities. As we know, legal affairs in an educational institution are done by secretaries. The amendments and additions that are now ahead of us pay great attention to their work. The big news is the introduction of the secretary's work permit, so-called ‘licence’, which is necessary as well. Thus, the law gives the possibility to evaluate the quality of work of the school secretary, which was not possible in the previous period of time. More attention will be paid during the secretary's employment on new standard competences. An examination programme will be prepared for the secretary, as well as regular evaluation of the work of the secretaries, professional training and professional development of the secretaries. These competences and a plan for monitoring the work and evaluation of the work of the secretary of the institution provide an opportunity both to increase the quality of the work of the secretary and the work of the institution. The next important change is the possibility of the primary music school introducing a medium music education programme. The offer that music schools in primary education institutions have the possibility of developing a plan during secondary education gives large plus smaller municipalities because students do not have to continue their education at the academys or in secondary music schools if they want to play music. In this way they can choose another profession, and in addition to that they also deal with medium-level music, which will provide us with more artists over a long period of time. Expansion of parental advice is important because it also affects the extracurricular activities and programmes of the institution and, for example, the choice of textbooks. It is very important to give parents the opportunity to participate in the work of institutions. Since parents’ advice is a communication channel between parents and an educational institution, we believe that extending their competence is a good idea because this will ensure their greater participation in the work, as well as better quality of work of the educational institution, and by giving parents a greater role in the work of schools, we hope that parents will also feel greater responsibility in their role and their support and responsible work to support the educational role of schools. Another newspaper is that the start of educational-experienced work in pre-school institutions and primary and secondary schools must be marked by performing an anthem of the Republic of Serbia. This is new to us, and this does not mean that it is not a practice in several countries, including some EU countries. The fine for the absence of compliance with this obligation has been regulated by law. We hope that the penalties provided for will be applied in accordance with the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities in which Article 16 determines the right for national councils of national minorities to set holidays for themselves, to have the right to present national minority symbols for those designated places on buildings and in the premises of local authorities and organisations with public powers in areas where the language of the national minority is officially used. The law also provides for fines for violations. As far as primary education is concerned, I'd like to first look at the possibility of combining class from grade five to grade eight, while this was only possible from grade one to grade four. These changes allow for the possibility that in cases with fewer students than those prescribed in schools where and during the first cycle of education, this practice continued in the combined department. The departments with fewer than prescribed are a very important topic for our party and I would like to point out this way and thank the Minister of Education for the understanding and support provided when it comes to the approval of these departments. Although the combination of the fifth to primary classes in the pedagogical and psychosocial context is a very good solution not only for minority departments, but also for the out-of-the-way departments of some rural rural and mountain schools in which teaching takes place in Serbian, this change will open several technical issues related to the professor's norm. We hope that the ministry has already planned some solutions to this problem, and in the past period we have seen that day-to-day teaching and organising single-minded work in schools can be a good solution, and we remind teachers who have competences to perform multiple subjects, so on. Two-way diplomas can also be a good solution to the issue. We welcome the amendments and additions to the final exam of eighth grade students in the language in which he attended the course during primary education. This defined fact has so far been lacking in law. It is necessary to provide the same conditions for all students in the Republic of Serbia, and it is certainly necessary to monitor the needs of members of national minorities. It is important to allow students to choose the language of the final exam because we have seen in practice that language competences can have a negative impact on the results of exams and it is important to allow the student to lay in the language in which he feels the greatest security since he has a student who does not attend classes in his native language. We consider the issue of recognition of foreign school documents to be extremely important. The law states that a foreign school law recognises the ENI/NARIK centre in accordance with a law governing the national qualification framework of the Republic of Serbia. In the past, it happened that a person who wanted to nostrify her diploma in the Republic of Serbia, and that profession had not had the same name or profile here, couldn't handle her degree. By amending the law and regulating with the national qualification framework, this will now be possible. This is the basis that those of our fellow citizens who have won a degree abroad, who want to return to their homeland, have the opportunity to use their knowledge here in their hometown. This is also the basis for the reduction of brain drains, and with the help of a simpler recognition of foreign documents, we are taking a step towards facilitating the inflow of the brain. For the duchy Hungarians, this question is very important. As of 2014, the SVM Group has also been seeking to address the years-long problem of recognition of higher education diplomas acquired abroad. The first major step was the establishment of the ENIK/NARIK Centre at the ministry, and then the Qualifications Agency, which also includes the ENIK/NARIK Centre and the existence of the agency in this last composition, no more waiting for months and years to end the recognition procedure, which is very important for hundreds and hundreds of students who have completed their higher education in Hungary and who want to work in the Republic of Serbia. In recent years, the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority has regularly opened a tender for monetary assistance for the procedure for recognising the documents acquired abroad. In 2020, for example, 74 former students were supported in the process of recognising their school documents acquired abroad, and in 2021, 87. We see by the number of users that the need for such measures exists. They represent new energy to improve our country. Under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, the general, professional and artistic graduation will first be attended by students enrolled in high school 2020/2021. The first exams will be organised in 2023/2024. A year. The preparation and implementation of those examinations shall be in the jurisdiction of the Office for the Evaluation of Quality of Education and Education, the Centre for Tests, which shall, among other things, produce tests and evaluation instructions in the languages of national minorities and publish various materials and manuals for the preparation of exams in the languages of national minorities in collaboration with national councils of national minorities. As I pointed out, it is extremely important that the Institute continues to do so in good co-operation with the national councils of the national minorities, and in accordance with their powers. The amendments and additions to the Law on Educational Inspection first refer first to the precision of the provisions contained in specific laws adopted in the meantime, and prescribe the competences of the Educational Inspection. The powers of educational inspectors in carrying out inspection have been extended. The educational inspection will also check the application of laws governing the field of science and research and the national qualification framework. In addition to pre-school, primary, secondary and higher education, student standards, textbooks, the conditions for the adoption of new legal provisions relating to the possibility of obtaining official clothing and footwear for the republican, regional, or city, municipal inspectors, as well as to amend, supplement and specify certain legal provisions relating to the tasks of an educational inspector, the authority and trust of inspection tasks in municipalities, cities, or the province and the development of an annual report on the work of an educational inspection. We're looking forward to it, and we think we've paid the great debt back to the inspectors. This is how they'll feel more pride when they do their job. The regulation laying down the necessary number of educational inspectors in the municipal or city administration provides for 206 educational inspectors for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia at the level of municipalities and cities. But this number doesn't go two-thirds of this number back for years, and it tends to fall. This is how the AP Vojvodina is currently, or in the secretariats. A total of 88 educational inspectors were employed in the Regional Secretariat for Education, Regulations and National Minorities, National Communities and the Regional Secretariat for Higher Education and Scientific Research Activities, engaged in the activities of an educational inspector, in municipalities and cities, while in other cities and municipalities across Serbia, a total of 88 educational inspectors were hired. With that in mind, I point to an insufficient number of educational inspectors and existing powers. This calls for the creation of an opportunity to expand the number of inspectors, and we stress that it is necessary to pay attention to the proportional participation of members of national minorities. It is not enough to increase the number of inspectors just to be more, but to monitor the needs of each local self-government, with respect for the national composition of a particular local self-government and by enabling the employment of members of national minorities. We in the SVM parliamentary group are constantly in favour of greater participation of members of national minorities in public, municipal, province and republican bodies, and we see the possibility that in the future when a new workforce is employed in this sector, the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are being monitored. It is important to note that during the work on amendments and additions to this law, the ministry has had exceptional co-operation with the Regional Secretariat for Education, Regulations, administration, national minorities, national communities and this shows the bill that is before us, since the objections of the Secretariat have been accepted and this bill retains the powers of this province's authority. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the SVM parliamentary group will support the proposals on today's agenda in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11619	I thank my colleague. The next is MP Mr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, as an authorised representative of the SPS under this set of laws discussed today by the Assembly, allow me to begin by welcoming the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development and his colleagues from the ministry, as well as his colleagues from the Ministry of Culture who are participating in the debate today. Namely, the SPS parliamentary group will vote for this set of laws, but I will talk more about education, and my colleagues will say something about cultural laws. We will vote for these laws in the field of education because we are deeply convinced that they are improving the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, because they solve the problems facing the education system, because they go to meetings and students at all levels and from those who are supposed to go to school, from preschool to further, because they are coming out to meet the needs of educational institutions, the whole society, and I think the ministry is doing it well and persistently all the time, especially in the last two years. We are a people who tend to forget everything quickly. Now we're still in the pandemic and it should be said that education works differently at the time of the pandemic. I'd like to congratulate the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development on everything that has done in these past two years for the system to work. Of course, that the system could not function if there were no teachers and should be congratulated on everything they have done over the past two years, because it is important for us that the system exists, it is important for us to improve knowledge, the future of Serbia lies in the way we will use the knowledge we gain. Here, we also have the Innovation Act. This law, i.e. innovation, knowledge, abilities that people acquire and all that we manage to implement in the development of this country gives us the opportunity to create a better life. That is why it is important, today when we talk about this set of education laws, to highlight the importance of knowledge in general for the future development of the Republic of Serbia. It's good to hear different opinions. Simply, anyone who thinks well of Serbia and believes in knowledge will be in a position to say a lot, in my opinion, helpful in improving the education system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm glad that the epidemiological situation in schools is better and that the ministry has made a decision to get the students back to school. I think that's the right move. I think we've all been looking forward to it, and the students, and the teachers, and us parents. I think it's the right thing to do for the learning process. In any case, for the past two years, the ministry has, as I would say, reacted to all the problems it faced and always had a solution to the situation. We didn't break the education process like some. Countries that were much more developed interrupted the educational process and the question of how to learn and acquire knowledge was also very discussionable, but this is the problem facing the whole world at the time of the Kovid 19 pandemic. I think it's a good thing the students went back to their duties and I have to say, if by that old folk -- in every bad, there's something good, I think now that what happened at the time of the hoof has shown a few important things for the future of the education system. First of all, the State Department can react and know how to react. I think what happened to all of us is a kind of school so something good can be found out of this situation. Why am I talking? The point is distance learning. I think you can see now the value and process of digitising schools, but also how to structure educational programs through learning at a distance. We've seen what's good, what's not and how the ministry can react in the future. To be honest, maybe we're also having some skills delusions that children need to learn in primary and secondary schools, now we've put on a test, and maybe we're ready to talk more than before, because because of Kovid 19 and the curricula program has had to endure some changes, so maybe it's a good opportunity to see each other. I think the students finally understood what learning means at school, the possibility to ask the teacher directly or to be asked, the possibility that there is this interaction at all times, and we often talked to everyone, at least those who are involved in education, that the square of the circle in education is, to say, the magic word - classroom, the interaction that exists between students and teachers. If there is good chemistry and there is good will for both of them to engage in the process of education, then there should be no doubt that good results can be achieved. I think it's precious everything the ministry has done over the past two years to improve the education system. It is not just about reactions to concrete situations, the ministry managed to work in the normative part in the meantime, an education strategy was developed by 2030, which is based on the previous one by 2020, which was done in 2012. But what this ministry has done, and the previous ones are not, is this action plan that contains very concrete measures to do everything in certain areas. I think that's a great thing. Anyone interested in education will be in a position to say or point out whatever they want, to say what is the state of education and what is done or to point to other things. I've seen it here, we've been in a position to get acquainted with some research. I must mention this, Mr. Minister, the research done by the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education relating to the educational and educational process of learning at a distance. In line with what I mentioned today, I think it's a very interesting study, the results are even more interesting, and I think there can be a lot more useful things to do during the time that comes. Not just for students, not just for school plans and programs, but for teachers. I noticed an interesting detail that goes to the Ministry, but it doesn't go to the entire education system. I read one conclusion, he says that the instructions that the Ministry wrote were clear, but their implementation somehow remained, as I would say, hazy and not ultimately realized. It means that somewhere from the Ministry, in that vertical line down to the school, to the teachers, the meaning of what the Ministry has found to be a way of reacting in these situations. I think it's a good school for all of us, to realize that we're all part of one system and that we need to do as much as possible to improve it. When it comes to the content of the laws under discussion today, I will start with this roof law, the Law on amendments to the basics of the education and education system. Personally, I think the biggest weight in this law is the part that relates to the state's graduation. It's a thing we've all been waiting for, more or less, I hope to be honest. I have to remind you that this job started in 2011 or 2012, almost a decade ago. This ministry has the opportunity to finish the job, together with all other actors in the process to make this state high-school graduation, completion of secondary education in a high-quality way. My colleagues talked about the content of that state graduation, but I think it's very important because we're simply going to improve the system, we're going to check knowledge, and that knowledge will be the basis for the later definition of students. I think, together with high school institutions, since people from higher education are also professionally involved in all these things that are related to the state's graduation, I think it's very important. For us here, but also for the educational public, it should be pointed out that the Center for Examining the Quality of Education and Education Office under these amendments and additions to the law has gained much broader powers, in terms of much wider scope of the affairs that will be dealt with by this exam centre. Here, I'll just mention some, since the others who are interested will be able to run all of what I'm saying checks on the content of the law. He will prepare proposals for the final exam programme at the end of primary education and education. Thus, the preparation of a proposal for a final exam in secondary education and education in general, professional, artistic graduation, final exam at the end of primary education and education, organises and conducts entrance exams for students with special skills etc., organizes and conducts a general art and professional graduation and final exam, prepares a test and manual for the evaluation of tests, prepares tests and instruction for the evaluation of tests for secondary schools, coordinates working groups for the preparation of reviews and evaluations of test materials, etc. Perhaps for you, respected colleagues from the Ministry, this seems to be an exaggeration of the provisions of the law that you have written, but it is important for the public to know, to be heard, to gain insight into what the Ministry is doing and what a test centre will do. Based on what I have read, and of course educational workers will be thoroughly familiar with this, the exam centre will have a large range of jobs, but extremely important jobs, from small and large graduations, preparation and many things related to everything that our part of the education system does and at different levels, at the level of completion of primary education and at the level of secondary education will have the opportunity to propose quality solutions together with others that improve the electoral process. I mention constantly improving the electoral process. Why? Because in these four draft laws, i.e. the law on amendments and amendments to four laws and on pre-school and secondary education and the basis of education and education systems, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have seen many very concrete proposals that promote the education system. So, the Ministry, like I said, responds to problems. That's good, because we have to take care of everything we face. It's just that we're in a position to react. I'm glad the Ministry predicted the formation of educational and scientific centres. Here, I will quote this member, is short: “In order to carry out the tasks of raising the quality of education, scientific, research, sports, youth and tourism projects and programmes and their availability to users, the government can establish an educational and scientific centre in accordance with the law governing public services. “ I think that’s good. Educational and scientific centres should be given the opportunity to improve the electoral process together with the education system. Whether they will work with teachers, with students, perform special programs, it is already a matter and strategic agreement, in my opinion, with the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. Whether to work with teachers from the point of view of the co-petencies they possess, to perform certain programs or something else, there is always something to do for those who want to improve the electoral system. Before I move on to the other things that are part of the amendment and the addition of this law, I want to say a few words about the things we talked about today, which is an anthem. I am pleased that the Ministry of Amendments and Supplements to this Law recognises as an obligation for educational institutions to perform on September 1st, quote - the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. So, Mr. Minister, today when you responded to one MP's comment, you said well -- it would be good for some to read the law. This is the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia, without entering the analysis of the content of the components. Listen, if we start to analyze any country's anthem, who knows what they'd come up with. This is the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia and it is known what the Constitution says are the symbols of the state: anthem, coat of arms and flag. I remembered after what you said about your classmates being exposed, that we MPs here are in a situation four times a year, at least four times a year to hear an anthem. And now, when you hear the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia question whether an anthem is made available once a year at the beginning of the school year as part of a national symbol, then you really need to ask yourself whether it makes sense, not to use another word. Because we at the National Assembly at the beginning and the end of each session, and we have two, we are in a position to hear an anthem, and yet an MP within a term of four years ten times, plus when the President of the Republic takes an oath, plus when the Government takes an oath and when the President of the National Assembly can make a decision in special situations to intonate an anthem. Then to question once a year at the beginning of the school year as part of the national markings to hear an anthem, it really doesn't make sense. For every man who is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, no matter what religion, belongs to a nation, regardless of his commitment to a party or anyone else, it is entirely illogical to ask any kind of question whether we need it. I think it's a good thing the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development predicted these other solutions. For a short period of time, I'll just mention one. I'm glad that, for example, in preschool education, the possibility of preschool institutions being able to teach children, i.e. they are given the possibility of being connected to a foreign language. Otherwise, the public knows less, we are as a state of language very competent, with us learning a foreign language from the first grade of elementary school, second language since the fifth. You have EU member states where we don't have the situation. So much for that, just so we know. I'm glad that the children in preschool institutions have the option, and whether they will use it or not, that's another question. I think it's also a good solution that you've provided for in the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, that educational training can be organised from fifth to eighth grade in a combined department. I know, and the teachers will say immediately, "Well, wait, and the staff." But we all in Serbia have one problem, and this problem is called demographics. The problem is called the number of students in some, not only out-of-state departments, but also in some populated places, which, unfortunately, do not have as many students as it should be because of the demographic situation. We really need to talk seriously about these problems. This is the solution, at least that's how I understand it, which was made for students, for students, for their knowledge, for improving their knowledge. If I didn't talk about other things, because someone could feel called, but it's good to make solutions for students, because, after all, if they weren't, this education system wouldn't exist. I think it's also a good solution that you've predicted, also in the draft law on amendments and additions to the elementary school law, that the final exam of the eighth grade student should be passed in a language that has achieved educational and probationary work. Exceptionally, that student, at the request of his parents, can pass in a different language, if it is in the best interest of the students. I keep mentioning this student's best interest, because it actually speaks of the entire concept of the Ministry of Education, all this time, that it constantly improves the education system, taking care of the students and what they need. I've also seen a solution that, as I say, takes care of the Director's responsibility, I'll use only that word, not to go into content and school directors, and we, who read this law, know what that means. I think it's a good thing the Law on Educational Inspection is on the agenda. I talked to my colleagues, from the Ministry, we generally have a few educational inspectors, about at the 80s, in the province of 50 to 55, in the ministry of 25, it's really little for an education system of 1,800 schools and how many teachers and others. Now the educational inspection is getting new obligations both for dual education and science, and I think we need to take care of these things. It is a great thing that the educational inspection works in a way that everything through digital communication means allows all educational institutions to know what the work plan is for next year and what will be done, but the objective number of people doing this is small for all that the education system of the Republic of Serbia is. For a short period of time, but fortunately there are my colleagues and colleagues, who will also speak, let me just say literally two sentences concerning this proposal for a law on innovation activity. I think it's a very important law. At the beginning of my presentation, I mentioned innovation somewhere, their importance in the economy with a fundamental goal of fostering economic and social development. If we don't have innovation, we can't improve our economy and increase our development, otherwise it's going to be the purchase of other people's knowledge. It's always better to invest in your knowledge, so get to the results that we can apply, than rely on others, because everything we get from another, of course it will have its price. I think the educational system of the Republic of Serbia has its values, that the educational system of the Republic of Serbia has competent people who work and the Ministry is available, it has been seen over the past two years. Simply, the ministry's task is to take all those measures that will improve the education system. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the amendments and additions of these laws contain a lot of things that are important for the education system, I have mentioned only some, my colleagues and colleagues will also talk about these things. At the end of my presentation, I would just like to tell you, on behalf of the SPS, it is good that the ministry continues to work this way, no matter who runs the ministry, so that no one, when I talk about my colleague and friend, Mr Ruzic, is the way the ministry works, like now, when it puts the public and to see everything that it does with the possibility that, to say, and to see and to participate, is something that Serbia needs, not always beginning from the beginning, but to continue, because education is a process that doesn't start yesterday and to stop. If we want to improve it, we have to keep working on improving education and constantly innovating education, and that's why it's good what the Ministry is doing this way, giving us the opportunity for all of us who want the education system to be improved well, to have the quality of knowledge to do so. We will, in any case, vote day, vote for this whole set of laws, from the field of education, as well as others, but these other laws will be spoken of by my colleagues and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11621	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. Next is MP Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11622	Thank you, President-in-Office, respected Serbian citizens, distinguished Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Gojkovic, respected ministers, with associates, today we are talking about the Proposal for a Law on Innovation Action, as well as a set of laws in the field of education and education and on the agenda, we also have an extremely important system law, the Law on Cultural Heritage and finally, but certainly no less important Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, as well as a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Media Services, which came out of an agreed, inter-party dialogue, with the aim of improving electoral conditions for the next elections. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the provisional arrangements for the payment of a fee for public media services are extended, as well as the way in which the basic activity of the public media service is financed, with the aim of eliminating the circumstances which could put the public media service into question. Our task, as MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is to contribute further progress and development of the Republic of Serbia in all areas of social life, especially in areas where we are discussing and certainly further work on empowering Serbia, is a priority for us. I must, first of all, point out that during the rule of the former regime, which is characterized by the political action of Djilas, Tadic, Jeremic, Serbia was humiliated, destroyed, embarrassed and prevented from leading a development policy, to protect its Serbian state and national interests, to defend its cultural heritage and its cultural identity. So Serbia was then a country of failure and a national failure. Today, thanks to the serious and responsible SNS policy, and above all to the president, Alexander Vukic, we are able to lead Serbia to be recognised as a country of winners. Serbia today is recognised in the world as the country that has the fastest growing economy in Europe, a stable rate of dinars, the unemployment rate in Serbia is at a historic minimum, the most investment is coming right into Serbia compared to all countries in the region, which guarantees for our citizens and a better standard of living, so to enable them to do what they really deserve, but also to create new jobs. In this way, we have managed to create a healthy perspective for young people, strengthen our education system, be proud of our armies today, that our cultural institutions are being restored and built. We will continue to run such a development policy, reforming the system of course in accordance with our national and national interests, in no way in line with the interests of the tycoon, which was the case during the former government and the former regime. That is why today we can talk about an extremely important area, such as the area of innovation and the results that the countries in the area have achieved in the previous period. Of course, our goal is to remove all the obstacles that we have encountered in this area and to remove detailed regulation, certain rigid solutions, through amendments and additions to the Law on Innovation Action. We are all here to witness how quickly the processes in the field of innovation work are progressing. We aim to focus the innovation system towards research to ultimately get final innovative products, which will certainly contribute to further economic and social development of the Republic of Serbia. The fourth industrial revolution has taken place in the world, and the SNS wants Serbia to position itself well in the world of new technologies, and that is why technological step-up and modernisation is one of the first priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because we see and recognize our chance in the previous period of good use. This is clearly said by the data, for example in 2012, the export of our IT services was about 400m euros, and in 2021, the export of our IT services is one billion and a half euros. Creative industries, economies, knowledge, innovation, are a huge potential for our country and this is based on Serbia's image. In this regard, we are proud that Serbia will have six scientific and technological parks in 2030, where we will have two new scientific and technological parks in Kragujevac and these parks and regional centres in Novi Sad, Belgrade, Nis, and I am sure that the engines of the development of the Serbian economy will be presented. This is a good example of the development policy that was led in the previous period, because it combines education, innovation and digital transformation, with quality infrastructure. When we talk about education laws, we can freely point out that the SNS, the field of education and science recognises as a strategic basis for the development and progress of our country, primarily because of the challenges that await us in the future, so the newly built and reconstructed schools, pre-school institutions, university campuses and improving the conditions of work in our educational institutions represent a good supply for the future, and all of this we do, strengthen our school system, strengthen our economy, therefore our economic opportunities, in order to achieve this for young people to see the future in Serbia, to build their future here, but also to make sure that all those who have gone over the past decades from Serbia to try to bring these people back to Serbia. With that in mind, I have a positive example to highlight the programme of dual education. I really think it's a good program and a good trip. By passing a legislative regulation at the level of secondary education at the Law on Dual Education, Serbia, in the region, is freely able to say, has become a leader in improving quality in the field of education. Already in this dual education system, we have about 10,000 students and about 880 companies. The goal is to enable our students to achieve serious and good results through quality work in our school system, as was the case in the previous period, in competitions both in the region and in the world, and one day adequately by the state for such results and such successes as they achieve on behalf of the state will also be rewarded. That's why the SNS wants to continue with, say, the urgent modernisation and improvement of the work of the school system at all levels, from pre-school institutions to colleges and scientific institutes. Today, we also have an extremely important system law on the agenda, which is the Proposal for a Law on Cultural Heritage, thus proving our commitment to the preservation of Serbian national identity and culture. And the SNS is precisely responsible for Serbia having for the first time a culture development strategy, where in a comprehensive way the direction of our cultural policy is determined. I have already said it once and I will repeat it and now, I truly believe that the Act on the Protection of Cyrillics, the Law on the Conservation of Cultural and Historical Heritage of the Holy monastery "Hilander", the Law on the Conservation of the Cultural and Historical Heritage of the Sremski Karlovci, the rise of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, the completion of the construction of the Holy Sava Temple, the intonation of the anthem at the beginning of the school, that it will all remain, we can freely say the eternal legate of the SNS and the politics of President Alexander Vukic, which the future generations will only need to be upgraded. By passing the Cultural Heritage Act, we prove that preserving our culture is one of our national priorities. This is the law we make because we must preserve the wealth of our cultural heritage. So, what is materially to preserve from the teeth of time, and what is immaterial to keep jealous and to pass it on to future generations. In this way we will systematically worry about Serbia's cultural heritage and our space that does not match our state borders, but it is simply our right and our obligation, because the Serbian cultural space connects the holders of Serbian cultural identity wherever they are. It is therefore an extremely important synergy between education and activities in the sphere of culture. I must point out that the Cultural Heritage Act is particularly important in the context of the struggle to preserve our cultural heritage, our churches and our monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija, because our churches, our monasteries, our cultural monuments, our heritage in Kosovo and Metohija is currently the most endangered cultural heritage in Europe, and it is our duty to fight to preserve our cultural heritage and our cultural identity, especially in Kosovo and Metohija, because it is precisely cultural heritage and cultural identity that represents a bond between us, our ancestors and future generations and that fight we simply must never give up, because it can be fatal for our people. Any attempt to capture or kidnap our cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija will represent a needle in our eye. That is why we are obliged to care for our heritage, our churches, our monasteries, because they represent the anchor and the cross of our national identity. In this identity struggle, we must win at all costs, because precisely thanks to our cultural heritage, our cultural identity and what the Serbian people possess, thanks to history, or through the support of the SPC and survived as a people in these areas. We are also obliged to inform the international community of the danger of our cultural heritage and to seek protection. In the previous period, we have realised really important projects in the field of culture, such as the digitization of our cultural heritage, promotion, our cultural heritage at international level, and I have to highlight the programme from 2019, which is a cultural heritage search where it is possible to find digitalized funds of our heritage and it is certainly the cheapest and fastest way to connect our cultural heritage through a network of cultural institutions and cultural institutions in the queen and dispersion. When we talk about the Creative Europe project, I think it is necessary to fight even more strongly in order to promote our cultural heritage at international level, and certainly that the new cycle of this Creative Europe will allow us to represent our cultural heritage in the world, and this is particularly important through cooperation with the countries of Europe, which are members of UNESCO, of course in the context of conservation, again I say our cultural heritage at KIM. I believe that we have proven in the previous period, identity, and social material progress and technological progress, can go together, and that is the policy that we will continue to lead in the future for the well-being of states and societies in general. We can freely say that progress with a national sign is a new Serbian code and that the cultural heritage law represents the crown of the process. As regards the amendment and addition of the laws on electronic media, the amendments and the addition of public and media services laws, they are the product of inter-party dialogue, which is agreed between inter-party dialogue and the final document, which has a total of 16 points, which provide for measures to improve the electoral process, which relate to the publication of tariffs for political advertising in relation to restrictions on public officials during the campaign, of course and as regards the obligation of public media services in relation to the balanced representation of political entities and candidates in the elections, with a view to informing the public of pre-election actions through the organisation of radio, television duoes in order to discuss current political issues in the election campaign. So, as far as election conditions are concerned, we've made it possible for them to never be better and thanks to the SNS, and if anyone has improved the conditions in Serbia, it's exactly the SNS, and election conditions are for anyone who has a plan, programme, policy and all that our party owns. It has now been given the opportunity of this non-parliamentary opposition that no one in the world has, which is that they have representatives of both the Republic Election Commission and the Media Control Body. The election census remained 3% so that as many parties as possible, which have, of course, a plan and a programme and policy, and who do not fight on the street to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So the conditions have never been better and that's the only fact. However, since the start of the inter-party dialogue, it is clear that this part of the opposition gathered around Dragan Djilas that they were not at all interested in electoral conditions, they were interested in forming some kind of transitional government, that they had full control in the media, that they were brought into power without a choice, because they are aware that the people simply will not, because they remember very well that Djilas, Tadic and Jeremic, were economical and politically destroying our country. Apparently, part of the opposition that was gathered around Dragan Gilas, that they defined themselves exclusively for hate policy, for threat policy and for violence policy, so we also had witnesses in the previous days, that the wigs and the fake second-serb elites, I mean in particular Goran Markovic, threatened President Aleksandr Vukic with the shooting. This proves that in the absence of any policy, it's only about the naked hatred of the Gilasovians in relation to anyone who doesn't think like them. Now it is clear to all of us that their only goal is to force some colored revolutions, by violent attempt to come to power so that they can carry out all those misdemeanors that they have carried out by 2012, unfortunately the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party received the trust of Serbian citizens in 2012 and we could only wish for such electoral conditions as are present. So, the SNS then received confidence that we were managing this country and we did not then complain about electoral conditions and we did not call for sanctions to be imposed on Serbia, we did not limit anyone's right to freedom of movement, we did not beat up innocent citizens as they are doing today, we were already running with a plan, a programme, a policy. That's why the SNS has a foothold in the people both then and now. I am sure that for this very reason, citizens will give unhindered support in the next SNS elections. So our message will always be the same, and that is that citizens will always wonder at this and in the next elections who will make the new assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the same citizens who cannot look at the eyes of Gilas, Tadic and Jeremic, because they remember their thieving and treasonous policies well, and I can freely say that there are no electoral conditions that can make of the traitors the winners. For the end of my presentation today, I would like to say that I believe that the very important laws today are ahead of us in order for Serbia to realise all its potential through innovative activities, and we need to move even more forward with all our driving energy to continue economic progress and development. Our task is to focus this energy of our people on learning, working, production, with preservation, of course, our national and national interests, we will make sure that the energy of our people is focused on dynamic, innovative, real projects in the areas of innovation, as well as on all other areas that we are discussing today, and in addition, we will preserve and fight for our cultural heritage and our cultural identity. The Serbian Progressive Party gathers a huge number of people who believe in strong Serbia and with the "Serbia 2030" plan, we face Serbian citizens because we want to create a more successful and stronger Serbia with them. I believe that the proposed legislative solutions that we are discussing today will help us to achieve the best results in all these areas, and I am sure that citizens read it well and understand it very well. In the day to vote, together with colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support the proposed laws that we have on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11623	Thank you, Mr. Terzic. We now move on to the list of MPs according to the application for a word. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11624	Thank you. Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored First Deputy Prime Minister, respected Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, respected representatives of the ministry, today we have a very large agenda, a very important set of laws concerning the organisation of the education system in the field of culture. But what I want in particular to point out in my speech is that citizens and citizens did not send us here to divide what exists in society to promote them, but to find the smallest common multiple in our policies to solve the real problems that exist in the lives of all citizens and citizens. Any kind of fire talk that I and any of us have here, that won't solve any of the citizens' life problems. We came here to solve problems in a constructive conversation, just because we are members of different political options, that is proof that we are not thinking the same way and that is proof of the political pluralism and the fundamental democracy that our heritage society has. However, the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party, does not lead to a policy of putting a finger around anyone, and if we do not agree, we can justify this in a democratic and appropriate way to point out, not in any way offending emotions whether it is minority or majority people. What I want to point out through that policy of dialogue, we've solved some problems that were almost unimaginable that they can be solved as my colleagues previously pointed out, the problem of Islamic religion, the problem of accreditation of the International University, and I think that's the way we should go. So, dialogue, conversation, let's see what's an open question, what's the problem, and not here to put salt on the wound and put a finger in each other's eye. I think it's a policy of the past and that citizens recognize it. What I want to take advantage of is the opportunity for Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic to be with us today, to thank for visiting the municipality of Prijepolje and to point out in particular that the libraries in Prijepolje and Sjenica do not have adequate working conditions, the library in Sjenica works, approximately 45 square meters, the oldest cultural institution in Prijepolje, the home library "Vuk Karadzic", it works, there is no room and that is something that we have to solve in the next period. I expect it to be one of the ministry's priorities. Please pay particular attention to that. What I want to take advantage of when it comes to the first vice-president of the government, is to remind myself of the case, we have talked very often and I want to thank you for all the steps you have taken when it comes to professors of the University of Novi Pazar, Mr Fadil Škrilj and Mersudin Mulić, they are back to work with a second-degree solution, but the Rector refuses to implement it. So, we still don't have, as far as I'm concerned, a solution to that problem. I ask you, by the power of your authority, to do everything in your power to resolve this discrimination against these university professors. What I want to point out in the end is that I am particularly pleased with the agreements signed today in Tirana, which concern the Open Balkans initiative. I think it's a very good initiative that we all have to support, and it's essentially about real policy. What does "Open Balkans" mean for a citizen and citizen in Sjenica and in Prijepolje? This means that we will get a new market for haystack cheese, for meat processing from Sjenica, for raspberries that we grow in Prijepolje, and we have a market problem. Now, that is the Open Balkans, because very often citizens and some big political diplomatic ideas cannot understand what it means for them individually. It means that we will have a new market, that we will be able to do what we do in our fields, in our Ataris, that we will be able to sell and earn for our lives and for our family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11625	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11626	Thank you, Chairman. When, as representatives of two minority nations in this House, Bosniaks and Albanians, we consider this draft law on the foundations of education, we come up with perhaps a key role for which we are here as representatives of national minorities, which is to convey the voice of our people. When we consider this bill of law, I want to refer specifically to the Law on the Foundations of Education, and most of all to one, according to us, a troubled member, which is the introduction of mandatory intonation of an anthem. I know that you will use this topic to present us in various ways, introduce Bosniaks and Albanians as enemies of Serbia. I also know that you need this to draw attention to some of the burning problems in society and the problems your authority is responsible for. I also know that you will try to present any criticism as an attack on the state of Serbia and on the entire Serbian people. That's what you do all the time. You did it this morning after you spoke to your colleague Camberi. We're not taking part in this. We will not contribute to this play, because in this House the arguments have long ceased to apply. We live today in a society where the argument has no meaning and that any argument that has been made in a constructive way in a place such as parliament is faced with tsunami accusations, qualifications, labels and ultimately ends with personal qualifications, personal insults and your identification with the whole state and the entire Serbian people. In the light of this proposal for a law on the basics of education, when you state the reasons for introducing an anthem innuendo, you say: to develop the national identity of students, as well as awareness and sense of belonging to the Republic of Serbia. Have you thought before that that the feeling of being a Bosniak people to the Republic of Serbia may be threatened by the day-to-day splendor and announcement of new genocides, by the splendor of the convicted war criminal Ratko Mladic as your new symbol...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11627	Sir, sir, please, just choose your words. Choose your words and move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11628	Is Ratko Mladic a convicted war criminal? Was Ratka Mladić tried in The Hague... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11629	As long as we don't get into personal controversy. I just said pick the words that qualify the representatives of the Assembly. You're off now. Please choose your words. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11630	Unlike you, I respect international judgments and, unlike you, Ratko Mladic is a criminal for me who has been convicted by a judicial verdict in The Hague tribunal for genocide against Bosniaks. (Alexander Markovic: Theme. I'm telling the facts and I'm telling the arguments and don't interrupt me. Did you maybe... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11631	Now I have to interrupt you because I was not in the controversy about Ratko Mladic, but about you identifying the MPs of the National Assembly with genocide. I'm not going into debate any further. Stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11632	So, I asked if you might have thought about whether the membership of Bosniaks to the Republic of Serbia might have a negative impact on it also on the daily denial of Bosniak identity and Bosnian as the native language of Bosniaks? It's something that doesn't look like a mandatory intonation of an anthem in schools. Have you ever considered that belonging of the Albanian people to Serbia may be a threat to the fact that you bring a convicted Hague criminal to the Hague government plane and directly to the Military Academy so that future officers may have the experience of committing ethnic cleansing? These are things to think about when you talk about a sense of belonging to the Republic of Serbia. Has it occurred to you that the feeling of the Bosniak people and Bosniaks being affected by the injustice faced by the families of young man Ernad Bakan, Fahrudin Skarep and Fahrudin Mavric? Ernad Bakan is our student, a young man who died in Belgrade at a pedestrian crossing. There is no justice for him in this country. Fahrudin Mavric lies for a murder he did not commit. Fahrudin Skarepa was killed by a police officer. Ask their families what it feels like to be part of the Bosniak Republic to Serbia. I have here a book called "Hronology of Evil and Uncertainty". It describes the 900-sided crimes, persecution and harassment of Bosniak Sandzak by police and the Republika Srpska Army. In one sentence it's described here and here it might speak better... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11633	I have to stop you. (Enis Imamovic: You can interrupt me, but I have to tell you that trust is coming back... You can speak for yourself. You have to stick to the subject. Leave that book. You've got a minute. Here you go. (Enis Imamovic: If we are to continue to interrupt me like this and take up my time and make it impossible for me to make arguments about how to restore trust to Bosniaks in state institutions and state bodies and tell you that this is not done by introducing mandatory intonation of the anthem, then why controversy? What's the argument? ) (Alexander Markovic: Your microphone is off. )
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11634	You do not allow me to freely express my political position, to freely represent the people who chose me here, to tell you what your obligation is. The promotion of the national identity of Bosniaks and Albanians under your authority has become a very dangerous enterprise under this government. Under your government, the state has made sure that the Public Service uninterrupted and unpunishedly denies the existence of Bosnian language as the basic element of the Bosniak people, in violation of the Constitution, in violation of the laws of this country, in breach of the International Convention, the European Charter on Regional Minority Languages. What kind of promotion of identity are we talking about? By introducing to Bosniak and Albanian children the obligation to intonate the "God of Justice" anthem? And we'll get to the anthem, if you'll let me.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11635	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11636	How'd it go?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11637	Nice. You're involved with all the interruptions.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11638	How did you count my time, I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11639	First, I'm going to ask you not to talk like that, but to answer the word. I've been counting on you properly, with every interruption. Now we have a replica. First is Milos Terzic. (Marian Risticevic: Injuring the Rules of Procedure!) ) Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11640	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, under the board... Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in one part of Serbia, in one city, but not in the whole, in a small part of a town called Novi Pazar, there is a fostering of Nazi traditions. [[Disabled microphone.]] There they swear, and I am advertising Article 107 and 108, to the fight against fascism under the Achif Edfendija tablet, which Hitler has decorated with the "The Iron Cross" and we are today listening to the sermon of a man who represented the Achif Efendija, who was an Albanian and who advocated that Novi Pazar joins the great Albania, who was not a Bosniak at all. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not deny genocide, but I must say, in relation to, say, 1931, a genocide was committed in the 20th century, but over the Serbs. The Bosniaks, or Muslims, are more in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 828,000 than they were from 1931 to 1991, and a total of 1,070,000 when you add it all together. The Serbs have more than 57,000 compared to 1931. Catholicism has as many as it was in 1931. Compared to 1991, 2013, according to their lists, the Serbs were less than 280, or were killed or displaced. The Muslims are smaller, or Bosniaks, 130 and some thousands. Every fifth Serb no longer lives in Bosnia or is no longer alive, and every 16th, unfortunately, and only every 16th Muslim, or Bosniak. That is why I claim that the genocide was in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is why I claim that Mladic's guilt or the innocence of Oric has not been proven, it is only proof of the politicality of the judiciary, or the instruction of the judiciary that condemned it. The genocide was, but it was over the Serbs and over the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11641	Replica, Milos Terzic. After Mr. Jahja.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11642	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when the SDA gentlemen speak of ethnic cleansing, the only ones who have experienced ethnic cleansing in the area of Kosovo and Metohija are Serbs after 10 June and the citizens well know, after 10 June 1999, that is, after the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement. We show a pite to all the victims, but we also want to know who cut off Father Harriton's head in Prizren, who killed the children while taking a bath at Bistrica in Gorazdevec, who killed the Sutakovic family, what did the president of the state mention when we spoke here in this home about a report from the Office for Kosovo and Metohija? I don't see anyone making a problem when important events of these countries are marked in other countries and when such events are attended by children and Serbian children and Bosniaks and their children. Then there's no problem. The problem is being created only and exclusively in Serbia. They've won 0.5% of the election and given themselves the right to be raised here. In doing so, a month, a month and a half ago, they went to Albin Kurti on their feet in Pristina and broke the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know if we'd be doing all this if Suleyman Ugljanin were a minister in the government again, he probably wouldn't, but when Suleiman Ugljanin is in the government, when he has a chair, then Serbia is the mother. When Suleiman Ugljanin is not in the government, then Serbia is their stepmother. Today, we have heard from MPs from their parliamentary group that Serbia, or that Serbs are Nazis, is indeed inadmissible. Serbs were killed during World War II by ballistic movements in Kosovo and Metohija. And then someone here gives himself the right to present such qualifications, such monstrous lies. Serbia will not simply make it clear to everyone, to give up fighting for its national and national interests and, as I said, we will fight for both our culture and our identity, of course, with respect and other peoples living in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11643	Thank you, Mr. Terzic. Replica, Mr. Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11644	Thank you, Your Honor. As a Bosniak, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, I feel the need to react here right now to everything that is happening. The character of a hero, the quality of a Bosniak is not to fire anything, so then run away from the color, from the moon. If you start a story, then, mother's son, stay and keep it. Hold on and hear the counterargument. It's what's called populism politics. That's what I was talking about this morning about the anthem and the abuse of the feelings of ordinary people. The truth of the will, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the "God of Justice", which we believe should be changed, as the Justice and Reconciliation Party, were voted by SDA Sandzak MPs. They also chose the largest turnout in the referendum was in those municipalities where they were in power. What is true, too, is that these cases mentioned also have a different perception. What we did as Bosniaks is that these problems are being solved through the institutions of the system, that if we have, as Samir Tandir said, different attitudes, then we will solve them where for that place – in parliament, in the system institutions, in the polls, and we will not put anyone in a really difficult situation, especially our people who sent us here to fight for his interest. What is true is that a lot has been done. It is true that the rights of Bosniaks and other national communities in this country, in law, in laws, may be extremely high, may be at the highest level throughout Europe, but there are problems in implementing these legal solutions. They're getting rid of each other, they're slowly coming, and here's this thing about Bosnian. As a Bosnian language professor as someone who may have the most reference in this country and most significantly deals with Bosnian language and Bosniak literature, I am responsible for saying that the problems that have arisen from the implementation of the Bosnian language are part of the unprofessional relationship of those who have delegated from the Bosniak National Council, which, by the way, have been misused for 30 years by this larger and, of course, the parts of the system that accepted it. But here it is, and it's moving. I did not arrive at that first address to thank the Ministry for the first time in this country we will have a license to conduct classes in Bosnian, and that is exactly what Novi Pazar is doing. So there's a lot of problems and they're solved. Those problems are solved. Let me just, for a little while, because of the importance of the subject. Of course everything else is a thing we need to solve together. And the question of Achif Efendi, which is the truth that he is decorated, but not by Hitler. Serbian historians claim he was decorated after World War I as an Ottoman army soldier by a German army that was in the common army or a joint action with the Ottoman army, not entering anything else whether or not, but this is simply a historical fact. Also, about the crime, about the genocide, let that be said where it should be, that is. in courts, i.e. in committees that are in charge and that are in every way necessary to lead us to a common truth that will make it easier for both Serbs and Bosniaks to take the path of the future and, of course, to all other peoples in the Balkans so that we can give our new generations a good place to live together as our old, in good, in prosperity, in seeing how we will allow them all to have a bright future in our country and throughout the Balkan space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11645	I thank Mr. Fehratovic for his constructive contribution. The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11646	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Vice President, I'm going to stand up now, although my spine hurts a little, to say the least. So 106, 107 and 108. We have listened for days from the Messenger of the people of falsehood. He's now left the Assembly. Comes in, provokes. When it comes to genocide, it's not a matter of court, it's a matter of science. Science has already proven what genocide is. I ask the MPs, and even concerning the territory of the former Yugoslavia, to be informed. When it comes to the Hague tribunal, we all know that it is illegal and illegal, and what is happening today, and from this MP, is an extension of NATO bombing, and we know very well. So I'll do it again. Genocide must have three stores, but if there are two, there is no first one – intent is not genocide. I repeat for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What does intention mean? The intention is not related to the war, but if there is no such intention, it can't be genocide, regardless of the number. The intention happens before the war. For example, before World War II started, how many, let's say, Croatian politicians said at the time, that Serbs would clean up, destroy their language, culture, etc. Before the war began. We've got thousands of them. So if there's no such intention, without killing 100,000, 200,000 is not genocide. Let's apply that to the wars of the '90s. Let the gentleman who opposed me find me a Serb politician in BiH before the start of the war that has said his intention to destroy Croats or Bosniaks, clear language or letter. Find me, gentlemen. You won't find it. I will find you for Serbs in Croatia before the start of the war 360 intentions, the saying of Croatian politicians. For example, Stipe Mesic, 90th before the start of the war and before the start of the multi-party elections, I give you an example, in Gospić in the third month, when he gave a speech to 10,000 Croats under 10,000 umbrellas, he says – when we Croats get the state, all Serbs stop under one umbrella. That's the intention. I've got 360 of those, so apply them. Is "Storm" and ethnic cleansing of Serbs genocide? Of course it is. Find me that for BiH. Find it for me with Serbs in Croatia did they ever want to do it with Croats? Of course you won't. What I'm telling you is a matter of science. The Hague tribunal is not a science. It's an illegal, fictitious court. He's not a legal organ, we all know that, he founded it. It's an extension of war and NATO bombings so those who bombed our country can justify it. Unfortunately, so do some individuals in our country, who wash their biographies. Let's be direct. That's why I recommend, when it comes to genocide, there's a magazine called "The Heritage", me and Professor. Martinovic wrote, go, and prove in science whether it's true or not or NATO bombing. International symposium, same in Zvornik, where several countries participated in the symposium. Today, no American serious historian will claim what a colleague claims. I could've brought you all the literature you wanted, even German. Therefore, the court is more of a reconciliation. We are for trust, but it's a matter of court, and it's not a matter of science.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11647	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. We end up in a circle of replicas and we move on to the list. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11648	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Associates, the Honorable Citizens, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen MPs, I would first have to say, here we have heard, just one thing here. Dear Chairman, one MP said that we all, therefore, want this Assembly to present the Bosniaks and Albanians as enemies of the Serb people. This man obviously doesn't know what world he lives in, he doesn't know what's going on today, and I won't deny him. It was denied by President Vukic, because today, I say, he signed six friendly agreements with a top and top Albanian, showing one to another and, of course, according to the President of Northern Macedonia, he showed great respect. Therefore, Serbs are one of the most tolerated people in the world and we have no problem with Albanians and with Bosniaks. In Serbia, minorities, especially Albanians and Bosniaks, are treated according to the highest possible European standards, as Serbs are certainly not treated in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially not in the Federation, and certainly not in those extreme parts of the Raska area where the people we heard and who left may rule, and where Serbs certainly do not enjoy nearly such rights in the fake state of Kosovo and Metohija. Let me finish this part. It is obvious that the MP mentioned suffers from what Freud called "the scientific term, "the narcissism of small differences". What is this “narcism of small differences ” in this MP? In fact, this MP is ashamed that his ancestors were almost certainly Serbs once. And that's why his "narcism is small" is small, and that's why every time he shows up once a month and once a month he comes to the Assembly, and neatly receives a $120,000 salary, he comes once a month, then accuses Serbia of being genocide. Then when he sees the heroes, such as Mr. Risticevic or Mr. Terzic, he'll hear from them, that they'll be replicating him, and then he'll be blowing the wind, and we'll see him next time in a month. Thank you, Mr. Fehratovic, for finding something similar about what I'm saying. Now let me move on to what's important. I will, of course, talk about the Cultural Heritage Act. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Culture Minister Maja Gojkovic obviously continues to work on the basic work, as seen in this law, in Serbian culture. So I studied this Law on Cultural Heritage well, and it is remarkable. The law protects cultural goods in the Republic of Serbia and replaces the already inapplicable and completely outdated 1994 Cultural Goods Act. The new law defines types of cultural heritage, material and immaterial, and what I will talk about, especially about this immaterial heritage, determines the objectives of protection, protection and preservation, etc. The law states that the cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia includes this immaterial cultural heritage, among other things, and that the immaterial cultural heritage includes both tradition, art, customs, rituals, expressions, knowledge, skills that the Serbian people recognize as part of their cultural heritage passed down from generation to generation, giving them a sense of identity and continuity. Of course, this again includes this immaterial heritage and the religious and cultural heritage of the Serbian Orthodox Church and certainly Christianity is part of the cultural and spiritual heritage of the Serbian people. One of the basic Christian premises is "do not kill". So the Christian faith preaches that Moses received 10 of God’s commandments on Mount Sinai. The sixth commandment, which is God's, reads, as I said, do not kill, and the ninth commandment of God says, "You shall not falsely testify against your neighbor, and the 10th will not desire anything that is foreign." When I say all of this, I'll say it's inappropriate and scrupulous that a professor of emeritus of the Faculty of Drama Arts, so a pedagogue who's been teaching and teaching more generations of students, calls for the murder of anyone by shooting. So they're completely out of harmony with bloodthirsty and bloodthirsty with the interest of the educator and professor of the university. Professor emeritus FDU, the esteemed Mr. Goran Markovic is probably an atheist. However, it does not release him from human commandments – do not kill him. For years Goran Markovic has satanicized President Vukic and thus violated the human command – he does not falsely testify to his neighbor. For years, Goran Markovic has been calling for and announcing a violent shift of government in blood that violates a human command – he does not want anything that is foreign. Goran Markovic can fight for power in the elections. For example, by running for president of Serbia. Goran Markovic is once again a professor of emeritus of the Faculty of Drama Arts. He's been working at that college from a long way back in 1978. He's working on the film director's class now. His work of art is not insignificant, it's very important, he needs to be honored, and it includes 15 played, 53 documentary films, three TV series, 11 theatre pieces, he wrote eight books. Since 2012, it is important to say, this authority has financially supported the shooting of five films or a series of Goran Markovic. I will conclude, since I am a passive filmophile, that the quality of Goran Markovic's films has been dropping rapidly since 1992, i.e. since the end of the film "Tito and I". Since then, for almost 30 years, up until today Goran Markovic has not made a single film that would come close to the real masterpieces such as "Masters, Masters" and "Variola vera". Creatively dry, it's not a lonely case of what happened last week, Goran Markovic, professor of emeritus, has been threatening President Alexander Vukic for years. Goran Markovic told the "Today" list on 30 December 2018 -- through institutions nothing can be done, the only solution in Serbia is absolute initiative and streets. Do these words by FDU professor Goran Markovic represent Serbian cultural heritage? Goran Markovic, even worse, is 2. Ten. In 2020, he said, "Vucic will not surrender power without blood." He goes on to say, "Good Wolf knows that without it, it's just a worm that's gonna cramp in the fire." So we've already got an Inquisition announcement here, a flame, the burning of people. Do these words by FDU professor Goran Markovic represent Serbian cultural heritage? Goran Markovic is 20. In 09th of this year, he said, "We are moving into a phase where there is no more choice, everything will accelerate and become more drastic and eventually the street will solve our troubles. Now that moment is approaching." Do these words by FDU professor Goran Markovic represent Serbian cultural heritage? Finally, Goran Markovic was last week, 15. 12. said, "I hope, however, that Alexander Vukic has the end of Ceausheskov's eyes and that he will withdraw without blood." And in addition to this bloodthirsty threat to President Vukic, Goran Markovic, the emeritus professor threatened his colleagues with retribution when he said, "Many of my colleagues are just miserable, they represent the occupiers' associates, and it is known how co-operationists go when freedom is won." So, it's a direct threat by firing, hanging, all those whom, the esteemed emeritus professor, will label as co-laborators. As Professor Emeritus Goran Markovic today speaks of revenge, blood and shooting, so some people thought 12. 3. In 2003, when Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was shot. And are all these words that I listed by Professor Emeritus Goran Markovic representing the Serbian cultural heritage? As Goran Markovic threatened President Vukic with the shooting last week, so Goran Markovic called, please note the term "calling", not "calling" but "calling", death to Prime Minister Djindjic in the second Serbian show "Pescan", 14. 2. In 2003, practically only a month before the assassination and shooting of Zoran Djindjic. Then Goran Markovic said from word to word: "I would love it if a man appeared who has a format that could stand up to Djindjic who might slap his hand on the table and say, "That's enough, man." A month later, the Legion, the Star, the Surcin and the Zemun clan appeared and opposed Prime Minister Djindjic by being shot beastly and cowardly. Do these words by FDU professor Goran Markovic represent Serbian cultural heritage? I mentioned this famous movie "Masters, Masters." Goran Markovic used the otherwise brilliant song by Alexander Sekulic "Masters in the House" as his real masterpiece from 1980. Otherwise, the song speaks of interfering in other people's affairs, intrusiveness, forced, violence, persecution. Here's how the song goes: "Masters I found on the roof of the old house, changing broken crep, masters on the roof, masters inside, masters, masters, masters, who called you, why you're touching my black roof on which the breed of white stands, on which the grass grows curly, my roof at the foot of the long century, why you took my house, why you attacked with hammers, nails, brushes, colors, masters, masters, come out, let me do my own house, they don't hear my bones, paint my blood." Today, 41 years later, after this film, "Masters, Masters", Goran Markovic unfortunately became a master, became a persecutor, frustrated and verbal bully, thirsty for other people's blood, a man with a breath of creation who instead of taking out ideas for a good movie, became increasingly obsessed with the threats of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Goran Markovic threatens to die because he is frustrated with his impotence. He, in his old days, is 75 years old today, becomes the one who knocks down someone else's roof with white storks, he becomes today the one who attacks verbal hammers, wants to type in the Vucic bones, paint the streets with Wolf's blood. Years ago, the only permanent motive repeated in interviews and statements by respected emeritus professor Goran Markovic was the obsession with Vukic. And this obsession with the Wolf grows and becomes increasingly malignant. Now Markovic has finally reached the point of threatening President Vukic by firing and will be shot like Ceausescu. And for what? However, the FDU's "mad emeritus professor" Goran Markovic seems to have something much more ground floored. So, the other day, a decision by the Serbian Film Centre was announced that Goran Markovic would not receive funds from FCS, so from the state, for the project he competed with, it is otherwise the film "Dr D". Then Goran Markovic announced that he would only shoot Vukic when he received no money from the FCS to record his future project. If Markovic had won the money for the film, he would probably have praised President Vukic today just as Gilas did in 2013 and 2017 when he benefited from it. No wonder Goran Markovic, a respected professor of emeritus FDU, threatens President Vukic like this. Otherwise, threats to bloody rematchism, revenge, illustration are open to Dragan Đilas tycoon and Vuk Jeremija Vuk Brankovic and Marinika Tepic. Here, Vuk Jeremic said in 25.04.2021: "A change in the system is not possible without remandism that must be implemented mercilessly. If the People's Party wonders, October 6th will happen. If there is no rematch of bandits on the public stage, the bastards of the Assembly will survive and continue to pollute public space, it must not happen." Another 19.06. Jeremic said, "Revansism means that after a change of power, the work of the SPS and all SRS derivatives, including SNS, will be permanently banned. Rematchism means permanent banning of TV Pink. The rematch is to keep Ana Brnabic and Alexander Vulin incarcerated." Do these words of Jeremiah Vuk Brankovic represent the Serbian cultural heritage? For his part, the tycoon Dragan Gilas made a contribution to this in 26.05 on TV "New S" when he said a series of threats. On the question of the leader: "You say the lustration of the People's Party, that's what they call rematchism? How do you do it and who estimates it, that lustration? Who are these people who were supposed to be lustrated? ". That's what the leader of Gilas asks. Oligarch Gilas says, he says, "We are going to lustrate people who are engaged in some public action, above all, which means that it applies to politicians, but also to people who used the media to spread hate. As part of the whole story, this will specifically refer to all people like Dragan Vucicevic. Here, for example, I'll take Mr. Bakarec, as an example of people who attack others, they're MPs. That hatred they're spreading, those attacks they're making, so somebody's got to answer for it. So, they'll all answer. Someone has to put an end to politicians." So, to all of us. Marinika Tepic said on 05.07., also announcing rematchism: "I don't know what the peaceful surrender of authorities means, that's out of the question. My generation has remained obliged to finish what started on October 5th and it is not finished on October 6th." Do these words of tycoon official Dragan Gilas represent Serbian cultural heritage? I will only briefly remind you of those death threats issued by the former MP, all to President Vukic, former MP Slavisa Ristic. Let's remember Srdjan Nog and Prime Minister Brnabic and President Vukic's threats that they will be hanged on the terraces. We remember the threat of Snezana Congradin, writer Dragan Velic, also professor of sociology at the Faculty of Philosophy, Jova Bakic, who said "Vučić will be tried by a revolutionary court. I'd really like to chase them in the streets." Vesna Pesic, and I end up with those examples, threatened to kill President Vukic last 1801 when she said, "Come on, let me see what you'll see when he declares himself president for life, a lifelong Vukic is coming. There's no boycott, just a pipe to the head." Do all these words of these politicians and writers and university professors represent Serbian cultural heritage? Someone will say -- here's maybe Bakarec is biased, maybe unfair to Professor Emeritus FDU, Goran Markovic, here's to hearing what some other respected people say about the esteemed professor Emeritus FDU, Goran Markovic. Here is, for example, a respected science doctor Daria Kisic Tepavcevic, a doctor and epidemiology specialist, a professor at the Department of Epidemiology of the University of Belgrade Medical Faculty. Otherwise, let me remind you, Professor Daria is one of our heroines, our heroes and lifesavers in this epidemic. Professor Kisic has unusually accurate, brief and politely told Inquisitor Goran Markovic the following in her brilliant history of Goran Markovic's disease, I quote - says he is depressed. He says the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, needs to be shot. He speaks of blood as water. Serbia is the bottom of it, and Bernard Arni Levi is the top of it. The huge money he got from RTS for shooting shows and movies saves for the black days. She hates Dara, and she loves Aida. The Serbs disgust him. Diagnosis – frustrated, aggressive, artisticly impotent, without national identity. Maybe someone else will say well, and Professor Daria is biased. All right, let's hear what the man who is the absolute opponent of Alexander Vukic and the SNS says and who has told us a lot of bad words. Here, let's hear what Goran Markovic says about science, Professor Slobodan Antonic, Professor of Sociology at the Faculty of Philosophy, the great critic of President Vukic and all of us here, in a text that, watch out, Professor Antonić titled "Goran Marković, artist and class idiot". Otherwise, an idiot is not an insult either. Just to remind you that in ancient Greek he marks that citizen's policy that refuses to participate in the joint affairs of the city and only cares about his own personal interest. So that's the Greek meaning of the word "idiot". So, I quote Professor Slobodan Antonic, who is not a friend of this government or of the SNS. According to Professor Antonic, corporate media has been fetishing the trends of artists. Look how actors and singers explain the world to us. This actor says that, that dramatist, that, and all three and dogs. They, actors and directors, reproduce to us with less or more convictions only what someone had invented earlier. Selebrites are simply idiots, politically useful or classy. The first ones on politics don't know anything at all, the other ones serve cult masters, and the third ones are megaphones of class stereotypes, continued Professor Antonic. It is not easy for the public to resist the obvious knowledge, cognitive dissonance, that someone can be a true artist, and on another field, nothing. One is an alcoholic, another drug addict, third kleptomaniac, plagiarist, fraud, hohstappler or propagandist. For example, says Professor Antonic - Goran Markovic. "A man made top-notch films, such as "Masters, Masters" and "Variola Vera" and wrote a great novel – "Belgrade Trio". At the same time, he made garbage from the film, "Turneu", a masterpiece of anti-Serbian cinematography that miserablely semitronizes the political poetic vision of Sarajevo and Zagreb, and says Serbian nationalism is to blame for the break-up of the SFRY. I continue what the gentleman says - but, as Antonic puts it. How can the same man make a top-of-the-line movie one time and the other time trash? Because the same artist can once have an authentic experience of the world, and the second time, the fourth century later, to mediacritetically reproduce general monthly trivia. Says Professor Antonic - do you know who today is the main dark force against which Markovic fights in Serbia as he used to against socialism? Today it is, says Professor Antonic, fascism because, Antonic says, Markovic says - because Serbia today is like Germany in 1933, according to Markovic. Serbia -- again quoting Markovic -- is under the occupation of a mousy and primitive society. Here I will stop quoting Antonic, who further describes how Goran Markovic dehumanises. Now I remind you of what Goran Markovic was saying about President Vukic. Says the dictator, the tyrant, the egomaniac, the patient, the primitive personality, the percentage with the mentality of the fan leader. The mob is its natural environment. About us from SNS Goran Markovic, so about us who have 750,000 Goran Markovic says - orangutanolike colleagues from the party. One of the primitive looks, and the other, and not all of the plastic surgery procedures would help to make it look as much like a human being as possible. The third one's just a cartoon. The gang in power, the ignorant, the simple, the characters that took over to judge what was beautiful and what wasn't, etc. About our Serbian Parliament, Goran Markovic says - The Assembly is a den, a creepy set of difficult leprosys filled with characters that are falsely depicted as human beings, that we are all from somewhere under a stone. About Serbia, our Serbia, Goran Markovic says -- we have gone back and forth in a relatively short time and become a primitive people and now live in this deeply primitive society. About Serbia, he says it's the bottom of the bottom. Goran Markovic says -- until the last man with self-respect runs away from here by slamming the door behind him and thus preventing further spread of the smell, the end of Goran Markovic's quote. Do these terrible words of professor, emeritus Goran Markovic, represent Serbian cultural heritage? Goran Markovic, I end up soon, will remain remembered as the emeritus professor who has made a significant contribution to the spread of hatred, dehumanisation, lack of culture of dialogue and intolerance. Instead of spreading Serbian cultural heritage as a professor of college and artist Goran Markovic's speech of hate and literally a hundred percent anti-culture. Another sentence, however, by Mr. Slobodan Antonic – do you notice with Marković a strong note of classy contempt, bringing down that the advances are lepers, primitives, mobs and creations? Finally, the great writer Ernest Hemingway took the title of his novel "Whom the Bell Rings" from the song of the famous English poet John Don of the 16th century, and part of that song reads – No man is an island, a continent for himself, every man is part of the continent, part of the country. If we take the chest to the sea, Europe is less like it's taken away by some rt, like it's taken away your friends' property or yours. The death of any man who dares me, for I too belong to the human race, and therefore never ask for whom the bell rings. It's ringing for you. Last sentence. To Goran Markovic and everyone I quoted, who threatens death and blood in the streets, who invoke the bells of death, I order what John Don's verses say – never ask for whom the bell rings. It's ringing for you. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11649	Thank you. Next is a distinguished colleague, Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11650	Thank you, Chairman. Cultural heritage is a unique and irreplaceable cultural value of a nation, created for generations. It points not only to the social but also to the overall cultural and civilizational level of the development of humanity. What we inherited is our duty to preserve for future generations. Unfortunately, according to cultural heritage, the relationship of the present society to our past is, therefore, a relationship between ourselves and our past. As we respect ourselves, we look right through the care of cultural and historical heritage. In the modern world, cultural heritage is recognised as one of the drivers of economic growth, the tourist offer of a country and, of course, an important condition for understanding the past, present and future. It is therefore necessary to settle all issues relating to the creation, preservation, protection of cultural heritage and other issues in that area by means of a general legislative act, which include the competences of the cultural heritage, obligations and rights of holders of cultural goods, etc. It is well and commendable that the law for the first time recognizes the immaterial cultural heritage, old crafts, customs, rituals, traditional dishes etc. But unfortunately that's not enough. We must not allow this regulation to turn into a law of syndrome, because it is a clear intention to manage cultural heritage more effectively. That's why I'm particularly emphasising it. This law must not be just a reflection of dissatisfaction with the existing state and belief that the problem will be solved by the law itself because it will not. Every law has its limits and its mere adoption and adoption does not always have to be a solution to existing problems in itself. Its consistent application is needed and more importantly is to raise citizens' awareness of the importance of cultural heritage, if we look at how and how we care about all the positive aspects of cultural heritage. Cultural heritage also has a social component, unites and connects people, contributes to the construction of an inclusive and democratic society in which the diversity and diversity of cultural identities and the richness of cultural heritage of different groups are incentives, not obstacles to social and cultural development. I think that cultural heritage study should also be introduced into compulsory education. Understanding, estimating and caring for our cultural heritage defends freedom, defends tolerance, defends democracy. That is how love for the homeland is restored, that is how it is strengthened, but that is how this love for the homeland is defended. Culture raises awareness of patriotism and national identity. No one should go to war, no one should protect his national identity by aggression, violence, the excelling of war criminals from any war. It's done through cultural heritage, it's done through education. Our concern for cultural heritage must be much better than it is now. The awareness of the importance, knowledge and responsible use of cultural heritage is, unfortunately, not at an envious level. A little over a month ago, Belgrade's public on their feet raised news of the destruction of a 1930 villa in Vrakar, banned by the municipality, for which it did not give its consent, but it was a demonstration of the self-will of a single investor. Laza Lazarevic's house on Hilandar Street, also threatens to disappear, is in catastrophic condition. More than a month ago, a monument to shooting partisans in Zlatibor was defiled. It's the freshest example, but unfortunately, it's not the only defiled monument dedicated to the victims of our glorious anti-fascist struggle. If they're not the target of the hooligans who print graphs and draw cowardly crosses, then they're the object of local self-government's carelessness. Anti-fascist monuments must be a place of memory. We in the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will never give up anti-fascist values, whether it brings political points or not. As a society, we must not allow monuments and memorials of the victims for the freedom of the homeland to fall into oblivion. These are today places where we must clearly determine and oppose every division in society and the emergence of extreme nationalism. In such places today, the ideology we defeated in World War II and the true values of community, solidarity and unity are defended. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11651	I thank the MP Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. The word has a National MP, Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11652	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, today, among other things, the Law on Innovation Work, which systematically defines the nature of innovation, brings annual programmes, types of projects, as well as the organisational structure of the investors. The new law will continue to direct the innovation system towards research that results in innovation processes and products that stimulate our country's economic and social development. Innovation is the concept of ideas and methods for getting a new product or some new process. Compared to the EU in Serbia, there are relatively good institutional and normative acts and most of the strategic documents have been adopted and implemented, and this law today will also be adopted after our adoption. According to some NALED analyses, one quarter of Serbia's companies have been innovatively and digitally transformed. Innovation without digital transformation applies about 40% of our companies. But, for example, the number of reported innovations per million inhabitants in Serbia is several times lower than in the EU. Investment in research and development in Serbia is still below 1% of GDP, and the EU average is slightly over 2% of GDP. We see that things are moving in the right direction with us and for us to expect even more financial investment in innovative action in the coming period. According to NAED, more than 50% of our innovation operators consider survival conditions on the market, which means that our economic operators are aware that without rapidly adapting to modern technologies they cannot be competitive on the market. Serbia's budget increases significantly every year in terms of innovation. For example, today the budget is 10 times higher than just four, five years ago, and plus the innovators have a whole set of tax reliefs, advantages in starting business, ease in employment, as well as other support programmes. We have seen for several years that the government's intention is to apply in Serbia a new industrial policy of Europe that has four basic pillars, new technologies, finances, the market and human resources. Management of knowledge resources, especially newer ideas, concepts need every company that wants to adapt successfully to a newer business environment. Engineers represent the resource on which Serbia plans its future industrial development. The best example is the German company Continental, which opened a Research and Development Centre in Novi Sad and which employs and employs about 600 engineers with an average salary of around 2,500 euros in the coming period. "Continental" is one of the global car industry market leaders and will certainly be one of our country's largest outposts. That Serbia is the priority of innovation, technological development shows that huge resources are invested in scientific and technological parks, in regional start-up centres, in women's innovative entrepreneurship, as well as in innovation support in local self-government. When it comes to the Agreement between Serbia and the EU on the Creative Europe Programme, it allows for the continuation of our country's participation in the programme – Creative Europe 2021-2027 years. The agreement will allow institutions of culture and associations and other cultural entities, participation in the EU's most important cultural projects, thus ensuring the integration of our culture and international flows. The agreement and co-operation promotes cultural diversity and provides financial support for our domestic cultural projects. As one of the EU's biggest investments in culture is the European Capital of Culture, which will take our Novi Sad next year. In a few years, Novi Sad has managed to develop a new infrastructure for cultural events, since it was declared European capital of culture, and has made it possible to access culture wider by opening eight cultural cells in various parts of the city that will contribute to the decentralisation of cultural events in our city. This title has contributed to the economic development of Novi Sad through new knowledge, innovation and creativity. The new Sad has improved and will continue to achieve its image in international frameworks. He became recognizable on the European map and as a very interesting tourist destination. Since 2016, when Novi Sad won the title, by the end of next year when the process ends, the funds invested in capital projects, cultural capital projects are around 60m euros. It is provided from all levels of our government, as well as from EU funds. These are really good things when it comes to creative cultural Europe and for the JS parliamentary group, all today's draft laws are acceptable. We will support the proposals mentioned in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11653	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Emesha Uri.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11654	Dear Vice-Presidents, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SVM parliamentary group will support the Bill on Cultural Heritage because the Law on Cultural Goods was passed 27 years ago and regardless of the more changes that took place during 2011 do not constitute a legal framework that provides for the full protection and preservation of cultural heritage and cultural goods. After nearly three decades, it is important to establish a roof law that will practically regulate the general rules, then organise networks of protection institutions, establish a legal basis for the adoption of sectoral laws and a series of sublegal acts, programmes and regulations. It is very important to us that this law, or draft law, is in line with international standards that define the immaterial cultural heritage adopted by UNESCO, the convention, and represents an inheritance that is passed down from generation to generation and represents a sense of identity and continuity. For us, members of national minorities are extremely important to this very sense of identity and continuity. I would now take advantage of the opportunity to list several immaterial cultural heritages that come from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, a "chip", as a specific form of traditional bread from Vojvodina, a "vertep", a model of church worn during Christmas, the revenge of the pasture, the Russian heritage, the naive painting of Slovakia, then, as a general Vojvodina heritage, the tambourish, and I am proud to point out two items that come from the vicinity of Sombora, it is a staper carpet and a homeless lady. It is very important for us that these items are placed in the immaterial heritage that this country should respect, cultivate and transfer to the next generation. For us from SVM it is very important that these very international norms that prescribe the criteria for the evaluation of cultural heritage, then the categorization of goods, keeping records and support regarding scientific and educational activities that work to protect and preserve cultural heritage. We also welcome the adoption of a strategy, i.e. a five-year plan as regards the preservation of cultural heritage in the Republic of Serbia. It's something to praise. Without strategy, without plans, without long-term plans, we will have no guidance, no goal, and we will never reach that goal, no achievement. It is very important to us that priority projects for the protection and preservation of cultural heritage are projects that are important for the protection of the cultural heritage of national minorities. Because no matter what we belong to the national minority, we also contribute to cultural unity and cultural values and to the majority. In order to guarantee the preservation of the common cultural heritage, some items, i.e. members of the Bill's proposal, Article 10, are very important because it prescribes that the autonomous province has jurisdiction in those steps which are important for the preservation of national identity and of the majority and minority people. I'd like to give some examples again on this occasion. According to Vojvodina, we have several material cultural heritages that are very important and that show just one decade-old, or decades-long co-operation between national minorities and the majority people, or all the peoples who lived or lived in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Let's start from Petrovaradin Fortress, whose construction began in 1692 until 1780. Today is also the symbol of the city of Novi Sad and Vojvodina, and of Serbia. Then, the town house Sombor, the magistrate, an old town house known in Sombor, built in 1749 in the style of neoclassicism, built on the foundations of Captain Brankovic's castle. After that, the building of County was built, one magnificent building that was one of the most beautiful buildings in the County. It was built in 1805. It has the largest painting, oil on canvas, size 4 times 7 meters, it's a Shadow Battle. So, in itself, it's one of the extraordinary values that should really be introduced to all the inhabitants of our country. Then, Zrenjanin, a county building built in 1820, Vienna in 1884, all baroque-style. Then, the City House in Novi Sad, built in 1895 as a copy of the City Hall in Graz. She's like a neo-renaissance. Then, the town house in Subotica which is a masterpiece in secession style and the whole city is practically a fairy tale in secession style. Some IPA projects have been created that connects this very style of construction, similarity between Subotica and Osijek. Also, Vojvodina is working on these international co-operation routes that cultivate and work to preserve material and immaterial cultural heritage. It is very important for us from the SVM that cooperation and the importance of national councils of national minorities have been built in the Cultural Goods Protection Programme. We believe that they know through their structures the best thing that matters, not only in the big cities that I just listed, but in the small environments and in the rural conditions that are things that we need to preserve. I would now point out a specific unique and very valuable folk costume that is still being used today, grown and carried in all the rural events in Doroslova and Bogojev. Whoever saw it saw a very rich and luxurious color of folk costumes that is specific and unique even against all the costumes in the territory where Hungarians live, whether as a minority or as a majority. I think that's one very important item, and I'm sure all the national minorities in the Vojvodina territory also have such a unique style of folk costumes that should be recognizable and should be preserved for future generations. To go back to architecture, it's very important to preserve the old city centers. I would point out again the case of Somboro where it has worked extremely hard to keep the so-called historical core, the wedding in Somboro, to preserve that style and to feel how it once lived. I also invite fellow MPs who have not yet visited Sombor to come and see and experience this phenomenal appearance of both the City House and the entire core, practically one medieval style of construction with a central circular course and around it with the periphery of the city. It is very important that this protection does not go to harm neither modern nor modern lifestyle and that it is a matter of working on building new buildings, roads, again to install this traditional seal of our cities. For example, I would take into account the construction, or construction of the Segedin-Sabotica railroad, of very specific beautiful railway stations that are really a jewel for themselves. Such buildings have a lot of devastation across the entire range of Vojvodina, and perhaps you should make a truly single intersection worth saving, restore as one possible tourist seal to these cities. Since I don't have a lot of time, I'd just point out that it's very important to work on digitisation, that is, the information system that connects and gives the whole aspect in one place and the whole width of all of the cultural heritage that our country has and which we can hopefully, in some future time from home to look at and choose where we're going to go. So we don't just have to go abroad, we have some very nice memories with us. In front of the SVM, I confirm that we will vote in favour of the Cultural Heritage Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11655	I thank you for an extremely nice discussion. The word is by the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11656	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ruzic, the Honorable Vice President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, allow me, before I begin to talk about the legislative proposals that today are the subject of the assembly session, I must simply refer to something that happened during the assembly session today, which is not the first time in this assembly hall. I didn't want to react through replicas, and I didn't want to waste valuable time and yours, because we're talking about extremely important and important legal proposals, but it's about the performance of one of the parliamentary groups and the findings that have been specifically made. These findings have not been made in this House for the first time. Parliament is the voice of the people, and it is the legitimate right of every MP to have his position and to make his position known, but that position, regardless of the identity and nationality of the MP, must be characterized by the Constitution and the existing laws of the state in which he lives, and this is Serbia. Besides, I've asked the secretary general a lot of times so far, and he confirmed it to me. Did all of us MPs sign the same oath? And that is to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, I agree with my colleague, a great definition, few times, counterpart Natasha said that culture is building a national identity. Of course, I agree with the earlier finding of a colleague who also said the vice president was wonderfully saying that national minorities contribute to a cultural unity of the majority. We fully agree with the finding, but we cannot agree with the finding that Bosniaks and Albanians in Serbia view it as enemies. And that doesn't seem the first time in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We interpret decency in different ways. The decency means to throw out all the negative things we could hear in parliament for a moment, so that we could continue normally and that this parliament would be what it is, and that it is a symbol of both democracy and efficiency, and transparency, and the public about work. But politeness also means that we do an honest and honest and responsible job for which we have taken responsibility and that we have to bear the consequences for what has been done or for what has not been done, or for what has been said or has not been said, therefore, responsibility in the first place. I think that this ruling coalition has shown a serious shift in this sense that this Parliament, as well as decency, becomes a priority when it comes to our mutual communication and dialogue, but one huge step forward and when it comes to civil decency. So, these findings as we just heard, we don't hear for the first time. They're usually heard like this as political flossules and they have a clear goal, and that's the only reason I talked about it at the beginning. The first goal is to send the worst possible message and worst possible picture from this parliament on Serbia, and the second goal is to collect cheap political points where they can pick them up. When you answer them and when you speak to them with a decent tone and when you show a high degree of political tolerance and political culture, you know what you get? You're getting threats. Here's the threat, that I threatened the Bosniaks and Albanians. Well, then you get comments on social networks organised by the representatives of that MP group, where they call me a Chetnik, a nationalist, a fascist, someone who's a snake who needs to be beaten in the head, and so on. This is not a language of decency, and in this way national minorities will not contribute, as the colleague has well defined it to the cultural unity of the majority. But to go back to the legal proposals. So, a set of laws in the fields of education, culture and information, at the very beginning, I would like to commend the Ministry of Education's work at the head with Mr. Ruzic. In the previous period, as Professor Obradovic said as an authorised representative, an education and education strategy was adopted by 2030, the Scientific and Technological Development Strategy, the power of knowledge, as well as a regulation that promotes the area of higher education. For the first time in Serbia, the Law on Student Organization was passed, which is extremely important, since student organisation is an important factor in higher education, as it enables the active participation of students in the creation of an educational process, which is also of paramount importance and importance. Then there are projects to build new buildings, colleges, colleges of applied art and the faculty of music art and reconstruction of the buildings of the Faculty of Fine Arts. In addition, by 2026 the plan is to build entirely new buildings of biological, geographical and Faculty of Security, then the Faculty of Philological Arts in Kragujevac and many others. Also, a lot of budget funds have been invested in the construction of new and reconstruction of existing kindergartens, primary and secondary schools in numerous local self-governments across Serbia, which certainly is for every praise. To go back to the legislative proposals in the education sector that we're talking about today. So it's about changing and supplementing five laws and a brand-new law on innovation activity, and I'm just going to make some key observations on time. First of all, the state's graduation is a major change in Serbia's education system. The introduction of a state degree should ensure greater justice and equality of all students who obtain a certificate of completed high school or qualify for higher education institutions. The current inequality of prom exams that differ from school to school will be overcome by standardized tests for a whole generation of students, therefore, for a whole generation of students. The Commission for the Monitoring of State Graduation Activity in the Educational System, which was formed by Minister Ruzic, decided that the time interval for the implementation of State Prosecution should be extended, bearing in mind, of course, the current situation caused primarily by the covida-19 pandemic. The decision was made to carry out the final exam for students of three-year secondary schools until school 2022/2023. year, and general art and professional graduation 2023/2024. A year. As Professor Obradovic said, I know you from the Ministry know this, but I think it is very important for the public to do this again. The law on the foundation of the education and education system is a system law, perhaps one of the biggest newspapers of this law is that the Ministry leaves the profession to prepare final exams. In particular, new responsibilities of the Institute for the Evaluation of Quality of Education and Education are established, i.e. the Centre for Examining, in order to create conditions for preparing and conducting national examinations that achieve a certain level of education. The establishment of a committee to monitor religious teaching and compulsory intonation of the anthem at the beginning of the school year are still some of the proposed amendments to the Law on the founding of the education system that we fully support. So it is proposed to set up a religious commission to monitor the organisation and exercise of religious teaching. The Commission is established by the Government for a period of six years, and its composition is named, by one representative of the traditional church and religious communities, three representatives of the representatives responsible for dealings with churches and religious communities and three representatives of the Ministry of Education. Legal changes are foreseen, I will repeat, and mandatory intonation of the anthem. I repeat this because I find it very important to preserve national and national identity at the beginning of every school year. When it comes to an anthem, it as a state song, should be patriotism among children of the earliest school age, because the anthem is next to the flag of one of the national identity symbols. I think we should know the anthem of our country and that it must be implemented in all the school's solemn programs. Mr. Minister, I have a question for you, since we talked a little bit about Bosniaks and national minorities, my question is, at the beginning of the school year in one of the elementary schools in Novi Pazar, it seems to me, rather than the anthem of the state of Serbia, that is to say. A Bosniak anthem which, as far as I know, reads, I am your son? Some more of the newspapers include increased parental responsibility when it comes to missing students from school, as well as the possibility of being over 17 years of age enrolled in regular school education. Also, when it comes to high schools, the law has introduced a solution whereby the required number of grades in one mid-term is reduced from four to three. According to all indicators, today's situation in the field of education can be assessed as such, that in the course of adaptation for inclusion in the single European system of education, however, as a reminder, but also as the main objective, I would say, the educational system should mention the data relating to the educational characteristics of the population. The share of the schoolless population is 2.7%, and taken with a population without a complete primary school, the share of the population without a complete primary school is 13.7%. We can see that functional illiteracy is present, unfortunately, in all groups of the younger population, and it is reduced by basic education. As the main cause of this statistics, I see, unfortunately, above all, the inappropriate Internet, primarily YouTube content that is largely available to young people, and which, unfortunately, have an unethical impact on the social and educational profile, on the social and educational development of a younger population that is increasingly on social networks, and less and less unfortunately, reads. Also, I would take the opportunity to praise perhaps the most progressive result of reforming the education system in Serbia, which is the introduction of dual education in secondary schools and at the university, this kind of measure and instrument to achieve the objectives of education policy shows that Serbia is developing a traditional education system that has devoid of the country's lowest heads, but also that it is also following European and world trends with regard to the acquisition of practical knowledge and field education that enables more efficient and faster acquisition of the ability to implement acquired knowledge in real conditions. Let me just have the right time for my colleagues to speak, to look very briefly at two legislative proposals that I consider to be unmistakable and the importance of the remaining legislative proposals in the field of culture. But let me refer to two legislative proposals concerning the fields of culture and information, it's about the Law on Electronic Media, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services. In this way, this ruling coalition, in particular in the particular case of the Ministry of Culture, shows one responsible and serious relationship. So, the amendments to these laws are the result of an inter-party dialogue that was conducted in the previous period of time, as someone who has been a participant of this inter-party dialogue since the beginning, from the Faculty of Political Sciences to the first phase, to the second phase of the inter-party dialogue, I know that there was approximately a dialogue. As a party that has decided that, and we believe that this was a very good initiative by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, accepted by the President of the Republic to lead the second phase of inter-party dialogue to two collegiates, i.e. with representatives of political parties who want to talk to European parliamentarians, as well as with representatives of political parties, who do not want to talk to European parliamentarians, and that it is extremely important that the second round of talks as a factor of political stability also took part in the country. So, there was something I would say, as I could define, as a compromise respecting two differences, and that would be in accordance with the law. We are specifically talking about the media here, we are talking about having in mind the role that electronic media has in particular during the election campaign. Of course, that we will support these proposed amendments and additions, give full support as a parliamentary group of days to vote. In this way, these amendments and additions make it an obligation for all electronic media to publish tariffs for political advertising before the start of the election campaign, on equal terms for all candidates in the elections. Also, 10 days before the elections are held, media reports of public gatherings opening infrastructure other facilities if public officials who are candidates for some of the public functions are involved. This is all the implementation of what has been agreed during the inter-party dialogue on which consensus has been reached and I repeat in this way the Ministry of Culture shows one responsible and serious relationship towards, above all, the agreement reached with representatives and extraparliamentary political parties by the President of the National Assembly and the President of the State. On the other hand, when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Public Media Services, these amendments refer to the agreement also reached in inter-party dialogue, they refer to the obligations of public media service RTS and RTV to act in accordance with the principles of impartiality, fair and balanced representation of political entities, i.e. electoral lists and candidates who participate in the elections which will also support the SPS parliamentary group, because I will say at the very end, so we are as the parliamentary group that has been defined as participating in the inter-party dialogue on both sides. We want to hear suggestions and suggestions and one part of the opposition and another part of the opposition, to look at what is meaningful and what could be part of it, what could be implemented and to improve the electoral conditions in Serbia and I have to say that we have provided the platform, as a key thing, to putting equal representation in the media, but we also said that equal representation in the media does not mean what the opposition thinks today, which is that it deals with editorial media policy. No, the media must be autonomous and free. As for media privatisation, so they know best, the privatisation strategy was made in 2000, and then all the media was privatized, so someone wanted capitalism, got capitalism, where today's need to interfere with the private sector? What do I want to say? We can just do this, do what we do today and define the rule when it comes to public services, and only give certain recommendations when it comes to private broadcasters. I also thank the SPS parliamentary group once again, in the voting day, will support all legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11657	I thank the president of the SPS parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Milija Miletic, the remaining time for your parliamentary group is one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11658	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable First Vice President, Mr Ruzic, the Honorable Vice President, Mrs Maja, the Honorable Fellows, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Srljiga, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly I represent the USS, selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Since I have a little time left, I'll just say a few things. As far as the law relating to the basics of education and education systems is concerned, it's related to these new things, to the combined departments, because a large number of our municipalities, which are so-called. The suburban municipalities, where there are fewer children born, less departments, where there is a need to do this combined department, to save every classroom, that in every village where there is even one student, there is a teacher in that village, because the only way to survive is to keep those villages alive. Mr. Minister, you've been with us in Srlig, you've visited the municipality, and you've seen that we've been trying there to provide conditions for every student, for all the activities of our children, is that it's difficult, but with the support of the Ministry, you and your Ministry of Education are doing well, excellent, and that's for all of us. I think an accent should be put on those areas, such as Srljig, Gajin Han, such as municipalities in border areas, where there are schools, with primary education, where there are more of those departments, which are smaller, so-called. Dwarve departments, we need to provide these students with good conditions, ensure that they learn and normally live in these villages. I think that the government of the Republic of Serbia and all of us who work and our president, we want to work on it, we want to ensure the same conditions for each of them, so whether they live in Srlig, in Tutin, Sjenica, Subotica. I think that's what we're working on, with the great commitment of all of us, for each of us is that every village, where there's a student there can, learn, have a teacher and can stay there. Another important thing, let me just say, for me it is very important, and for the citizens of Serbia, today in Tirana, a number of agreements have been signed, where our President Aleksandar Vukic, together with the prime minister of Albania and the Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia, signed and that is a big deal for us. This is how we have the opportunity to have a market, to have everything we haven't had so far, and this gives us a better chance of developing our country of Serbia. It is once again shown that our country Serbia wants to cooperate with everyone, and that is our only direction, everyone to respect, but that is why they have to respect us. Once again, I, as a USS MP, will vote in favour of all these bill proposals, because they are very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11659	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP professor, Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11660	Thank you, Vice President Kovac. Dear First Vice-President Mr Ruzic, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, of course these bill proposals that we have today and that we are discussing, which today are very important on the agenda. It is very important that we systematically promote our education, invest in education and take advantage of everything that has been done in the context of economic reforms and everything that President Aleksandar Vukic has done in terms of attracting both foreign direct investment and domestic investment, the development of entrepreneurship, the entrepreneurial spirit, changing Serbia, changing one business environment in Serbia and creating a great chance through economic results that our country can, in addition to those hard infrastructures, investment in highways, in railways, invest in what is called soft infrastructure, therefore in education, in science, in technological development, information technology. It's a big resort, a huge portfolio you run, Mr. Ruzic. It is very important that both dual secondary education and dual higher education develop in the coming period. In fact, this shows a very serious sensitivity of the government of the Republic of Serbia for everything that involves the development of a modern state. One of the key aspects of this development is that the economy and education are connected, that what defines the strategy of economic development that we, for the first time in reality, have, thanks to President Vukic and the way Serbia is developing, is that in this way we have agreed and education of staff, starting, of course, from primary, secondary school and of course to higher education, given that education and introducing the philosophy of lifelong learning, introducing a whole new philosophy and one approach that train young people to be ready for the labour market, to be ready for new entrepreneurial initiatives, to take fate into their own hands, to naturally strengthen our market, to liberalise it as much as possible, to create even stronger competition. President Vukic and the government of the Republic of Serbia have shown that in just a few years' time the results on economic development, competitiveness and attractiveness of our country can definitely be made. Since Serbia today is not only a champion in some sports, it is not a tennis champion, it is a water polo champion in the economy. We are a country that will end this year with 7.5% of economic development, so the cumulatively highest rate of economic development throughout Europe. This shows enough and justifies the fact that it was done in this domain and how much focus and commitment to economic development is paid in view of what President Aleksandar Vukic always had, of course, an ordinary man. The possibility of an ordinary man getting a job, that he can work, that he can live with honor and dignity from his work and what he is our strategic goal for our families, that our young people have opportunities here in Serbia to stay in Serbia, that they can work, that they can base their families and that we can achieve that strategy and vision as to how to have us more and how in this way to improve, to modernise and strengthen our country, not only economically, because that there is no economy, that there is no economic development, there would be no, that we should be fair to our citizens, there would be no development of education, there would be no such growth when it comes to the IT sector, there would be no investment and there would be no growth and there would be no growth and strengthening of our culture, cultural policy, cultural diplomacy, our defence, our external and geopolitical position. All of this Aleksandar Vukic knew about all of this and he had a vision and that is why we today, and we will just read the fruits of and highly thought-out policies and achieving the slow strategic goals that we have in the next period. Of course, I have to look very briefly at this initiative, "Open Balkans", to address the challenges facing President Aleksandar Vukic, who are definitely political, who are geopolitical. To all of this, his answer is – we create friendships, we are ready to develop an economy, we are ready in this domain with everything to cooperate, we have no absolute enemies, we want in the region to create and achieve free flow of goods, people and capital because our people here in Serbia live better, to have peace in the region, to have stability in the region. It is only a prerequisite for our citizens, Serbian citizens, to live well, to live better, but this is a prerequisite to protect our people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Republika Srpska, to protect our people and our vital interests in Kosovo and Metohija. We see what the response of Kosovo Albanians and temporary institutions in Pristina is, while Vukic together, we need to say this with Zoran Zaev and Eddie Ram creates both in a real and concrete way improving the economy, promoting procedures, relaxing and creating free flow of goods, people and capital in the interests of all citizens. Today, Kosovo Albanians are breaking into Strpce, blocking and closing the entire city, while we are opening borders for goods, for services, for capital, for mutual exchange of students, minds, young people, for everything that our country needs to develop, Kosovo Albanians headed by Albino Kurti, with Vjos Osmani, are closing one Strpce, arrests citizens of the Republic of Serbia's nationality, of course under the old pretext of fighting organised crime and corruption, this time alone is not on the agenda of northern Kosovo and Metohija, which is, of course, their key goal, they are absolutely and not hiding it, but they raided into Srpce today and that is their response to the free flow of human and capital goods. It is the response of Albin Kurti, Vjose Osmani and temporary institutions when it comes to the prosperity of the entire region, when it comes to strengthening the economy, when it comes to an open market where one goal is for all to live better. Serbia's stance and President Vukic's position has always been and will be in the coming period of compromise, only this way Serbia is ready to move forward in the dialogue, is ready to compromise, but when you have this kind of thing, I can't call them politicians either, but people who are simply political taboos, put Alexander Vukic on one side and Albin Kurti on the other, and it will simply be clear to everyone, as it is the fact that it is, so-called. Kosovo and temporary institutions are neither a state nor a government nor able to manage any public policy and put on the other side of Alexander Vukic, who is the only sovereign leader in this region, the only man who, especially proud of this in the SNS, has been involved in the programme in ten strategic goals of our party's independent and independent policy-making, without the influence of foreign embassies, so Serbia is our people, our citizens, we decide, our citizens decide on the fate of this country. Of course and unfortunately, it has resulted in people who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who, of course, can't say that they love this country, I'm sorry to say it, but the desire to rob this country, the desire to drain this country as lemon itself, the desire to make this country so that it can be a handful of teeth for all others who have interests in this country for our resources, human, natural and material, cannot be called patriots and cannot call those who are equal to us who, along with our president, work 24 hours a day to modernise this country, to defend our vital interests and our country's national interests and that what's most important, we have results in it. I'm ordering these people in temporary institutions in Pristina -- don't try new confessions, don't try to break an agreement that's our country, which the Republic of Serbia signed and stick to, because if we want to, we can only have 10 new ones within 24 hours, as we say, derecognition or suspension of recognition of so-called. Kosovo. We advocate a compromise, we advocate an economy, for economic development, for a better life for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are showing this today, because we are talking about the future, how we will be more informatively improved, strengthened, how we will strengthen our secondary education, our university, our colleges, our education system, how we will continue to invest in culture because that is, of course, the pillar of our country's development and we are fully in the Serbian Progressive Party, but I am sure our coalition partners are also following the path of our President Alexander Vukic. And to conclude, a debate has opened that is false, which has no basis for respecting human and minority rights in this country. Here, today the National Assembly is proudly chaired by Elvira Kovac, who comes and represents the Party of the Duchy Hungarians. Thanks to this Alexander Vukic, Serbia has never had better relations with Hungary, and this is an indicator of its and our commitment to regional stability and development. Never better historical relations with the Visegrad Group countries, with Poland, with the Czech Republic, with Slovakia. There is no one right here, as much as we respect, of course, and a public word and word in Parliament here, to insult our people. There is no right to insult, on the justice of God, MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who were elected to the plebiscitarian majority, in particular from the Serbian Progressive Party, to represent these citizens in our parliament, and those who celebrate not only did crimes against Serbs during World War II, but they participated in the same Aschim Blut in the Holocaust, the persecution and persecution of 221 Jews who later ended up, of course, in the Mosquitos at the Old Fair and drove to Banjic. So, we are open to the future, we are looking into the future, we are following the vision of our President, Alexander Vukic, and we are going to fight for a better life of citizens, of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11661	The last on the list of speakers is National MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11662	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, here, today on the agenda even though we have laws that regulate those areas of life that, when we look at a shorter period, may not produce results immediately, but in the long term, and how they can be important for our future, but also for our development and I am glad that we have had a constructive debate today where we have detailed all those members of the laws that are changing and which are now proposed. In that sense, I will not repeat myself, but only try to round up today's discussion. Although there is no change in the Law on Higher Education among the above-mentioned proposals, which would potentially contain certain changes in the way of the score and in the legal regulation of so-called. "Bolognaci", and in line with the question proposed by our parliamentary group, I expect that, in this future period, this law will be in order. What is doubtless is to amend, or amend, the laws that we have on the agenda today, to a large extent affect this and how we will develop as a society and to what extent our education system will develop. Knowledge is treated as a basic resource and an economic resource, but also every other development and it is inextricably linked to education itself, and every modern society also requires knowledge, but also competences without which we could not ultimately expect to improve in society or in the economy, but not in any other aspect of our life. In addition, this means that we must learn not only in classrooms but also outside the physical environment of the classroom during our lives. This again means that we have to learn to treat each other, to respect each other, to celebrate our successes, but also to reconcile our defeats, and that is exactly the social component of each education, which is actually one idea, but also the goal of all these laws at the end. Our parliamentary group will support these laws in the voting day, recognising them as the basis for the development and improvement of our society in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-21-0.u11663	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 to 6 from 11 to 13 and from the 19th to 20th of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m.
