ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6120	The honourable MPs, the area of social security between our country and the province of Quebec, Canada, have so far not been regulated by any international treaty. Namely, there is a 2014 Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada. However, it does not cover our insurance companies living in the territory of Quebec and because, in accordance with the laws of Canada, this Canadian province has special powers to conclude social security agreements. In view of the above, there was a need to regulate this act. Given the number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living and working in this Canadian province, it is a fact that the province of Quebec has, as I have already said, this special pension plan that is split from Canada, which needs further development and consolidation of friendly relations and co-operation in these areas, as well as in the area of social security. The two sides agreed to start negotiations in order to conclude a social security contract, with a view to the comprehensive protection of insurance companies across the entire territory of Canada. The contract provides for the exercise of pension and disability insurance rights, health insurance and health care, as well as insurance for accidents and occupational diseases. It is also important to stress that some additional rights for insurance companies have been provided in relation to the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada. In fact, it refers to an area of health insurance that is not part of the Agreement with Canada and under this Treaty refers to persons addressed and to our students leaving for this province. The contract is of paramount importance in the areas of pension and disability insurance, primarily because of Serbian citizens living and working in Quebec, whose conclusion of this contract allows them to exercise all rights in these areas. I would point out that the Republic of Serbia is applying social security agreements with 31 countries, most of which are EU members, which live and work for a large number of our citizens. Also, in the past few years, such agreements have been concluded with the Republic of Greece, the Russian Federation and China, and in the coming months we expect the conclusion of the agreement with Tunisia and Azerbaijan, as well as the entry into force of the agreement with France. Initiatives have also been launched to conclude such agreements with both the Netherlands and Italy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6121	Thank you. Minister Ruzic, you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6122	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, before us is the proposal for a bill confirming the Protocol for the Amendment and Completion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technological Co-operation, which was concluded on 23 April 2010, which the Serbian Government established and directed to the Assembly procedure with reasons, following the material obtained by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and in collaboration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The essence of the proposed Act on Confirmation of the Protocol is that it refers to an Agreement on Scientific and Technological Co-operation whose importance and application stood out on 21 January. The very purpose of this Agreement between Serbia and the United States is to strengthen the scientific and technological potential of signatories, expand and develop relations between the two countries' widest scientific and technological communities, as well as improve scientific and technological co-operation in areas of mutual benefit for peaceful purposes. The main objective of this Agreement and of this cooperation is the exchange of ideas and information, expertise and technologies for peaceful purposes, as well as shared participation in scientific and technological folds of mutual interest. The agreement provides the basis for the exchange of researchers, scientists, technical experts engineers, the organisation of joint seminars, scientific conferences and meetings, training and improvement of research expertise, the implementation of joint research projects and studies, the establishment of a partnership between the public and private sector based primarily on science, as well as the establishment of other forms of co-operation at the scientific, engineering and technological level in basic and applied sciences. The US side in December 2020 initiated an extension of the Protocol for another ten years, which the Serbian side accepted as a good step in bilateral relations between the two countries. Given that the Protocol itself highlighted January 21st, there was no interference with the adoption of such an initiative, of course agreeing and introducing a norm. The protocol not only determines and defines the continuation, but also improves and intensifys co-operation between the Serbian and US sides in all scientific and technological areas over the next ten years. It has already been established during the text of the Protocol that the period of confirmation of the concluded Protocol will take place in procedures which could not then be completed by 21 January 2021. We have agreed to implement procedures that will allow for the provisional application of the Protocol until its entry into force in accordance with the national procedures of both sides. The Parties have provided appropriate communication with the provisional application of the Protocol in general, which is important from the aspect of non-discontinity in the application of this Protocol. On March 3rd, 2021, at the Michael Pupina Museum Complex in his hometown, Idvor, the US Ambassador to Serbia, his Excellency Anthony Gotfrey and my indifference, we signed a Protocol amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of America on scientific and technological co-operation. What is changing in Annex, intellectual property rights that can arise in activities in the realisation of co-operation between US-Serbian institutions over the next ten years are being regulated. Given the flow of time and the currentity of intellectual property rights, the new Annex legal protection of intellectual property that can arise in further scientific and technological co-operation is in line with the applicable regulations in this area of the two countries, of course the applicable regulations of the two countries and, of course, according to world standards. As you have read, I believe, financial resources for the signing of individual agreements or agreements on co-operation between the two parties under this Protocol will be covered by financial plans, bearers and participants in these concrete forms of co-operation. What is certainly significant, is that the United States is an important partner to the Republic of Serbia not only at the political level, but also at this scientific and technological level. The United States represents one of the world's leading forces in the field of scientific and technological development and is of particular importance to the attention given to international co-operation in the development function, as well as the results that it achieves by planning to connect scientific and economic development. So, co-operation with such a partner, given the scientific and other capacities of the United States, can certainly contribute and contribute to further development of our scientific and technological potentials. I would not owe and talk about current co-operation with the United States, and I would also like to point out that the Republic of Serbia is a signator of 54 international agreements that regulate scientific co-operation. So 54 bilateral, mostly, agreements and that we have one fruitful co-operation with a large number of countries that are precisely in science and technological development have enviable results. We all know that without scientific and technological development, there is simply no overall progress of any state, including the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6123	Thank you. Since Minister Nedimovic is not here, Daria, will you explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6124	Dear Members, there is also an agreement on co-operation in the area, I apologize, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of plant quarantine and plant protection. Namely, given that the recent years have intensified co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation in the phytosanitary area, as a result of the increase in exports of consignments subject to mandatory phytosanitary review, mainly fruit and vegetables and enhanced control introduced by the Russian side in order to prevent imports of goods from countries where the Russian Federation imposed sanctions, the need for the innovation of an existing agreement that existed between the Russian Federation government and the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the area of quarantine and plant protection, signed on 31 October 1996. During 2018, negotiations with the Russian side began to bring the text into line and the signing of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of plant quarantine and plant protection. The signed agreement will contribute to facilitating procedures and reducing the barrier on exports from the Republic of Serbia to the Russian Federation market, primarily fruits and vegetables, seed and fruit material, as well as other plant products that are subject to the phytosanitary ankle. The agreement also provides a basis for further and more detailed regulation of all issues in the phytosanitary area, both in negotiations and at the level of both countries' professional services, which will certainly contribute to increasing the volume of trade in goods, products of plant origin, and will ensure greater profits for producers and exporters themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6125	Thank you. We're moving on to reports from the committees in charge. The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6126	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, social inclusion and poverty reduction at its session discussed the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia, i.e. between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Quebec in the area of social security. He suggested that the National Assembly adopt this Treaty proposal first of all because it regulates issues from the PIO of our citizens working in Quebec, then regulates the issue of work injuries, then regulates the issue of occupational illness, then regulates the issue of health care and health insurance. Quebec is one of ten provinces in Canada, the largest on its surface and the other on its population density. The capital is Quebec, and otherwise one of the most urban cities and the most populated is Montreal. It is estimated that in this province, there are about tens of thousands of our workers and that the confirmation of this social security contract will, above all, be in their interest. In this way, we show that the Republic of Serbia, except that it takes care of the creation of new jobs and the employment of our citizens here in Serbia, and that it also takes care of our workers who for various reasons have left our country and found work in another country. Also, negotiations have been conducted approximately three years since 2016. It was signed on 19 June 2020. This period was necessary for the parties to agree on all issues which were regulated by this agreement, and one of the basic principles provided for in this Agreement is the principle of equality, as well as the principles of selecting the insurance standings. This is also important for our citizens, given that there are citizens who, for example, have 10 years of employment in Serbia and after years of that internship cannot achieve right here in the Republic of Serbia, but have, for example, 10 years of employment in Quebec. That way, our citizens are given the opportunity to exercise their right to pension precisely because of this principle of addition. Of course, pensions and family pensions and disability pensions were regulated. What is and how significant this is is that pensions will be directly paid on the account of users, for example, if our citizens live in Serbia directly will be paid from Quebec in a converting currency at no cost and any charges relating to the withdrawal of that amount due to work on the processing of pensions, etc. Also, I must point out, very significantly in this agreement, that is also the position of our students who are studying in Quebec, who are also given the opportunity to use health care and health insurance. What is the difference between this agreement and the agreement with Canada which was signed in 2014 is precisely that it guarantees the right to health insurance and health care through this contract, and that is permanent. As the financial payments are permanent, as they are paid directly, so is the right to health insurance. You have already stated that the Republic of Serbia is currently taking care of its citizens who work in other countries has signed 31 contracts, mainly European countries, but I must mention that these are also all neighbouring countries of the former SFRY, and that since 1 February 2020, the Social Security Treaty with the People's Republic of China has been in force, therefore our workers are being accounted for as a retirement worker even though they work in China, as well as Chinese workers working here in Serbia. The policy of this government besides ensuring the position of our workers abroad is also the creation of new jobs. Alexander Vukic himself opened over 230 factories and employed about 400,000 people. I must also point out that since the arrival of SNS Canadian investors or citizens of Canada in the Republic of Serbia have opened more than 300 business entities, and of those I want to quote this occasion it is a factory in Odzac which was opened at the time that Prime Minister Alexander Vukic was Prime Minister today, and of course I have to point out the opening of the Canadian factory in Aleksinac, the first plant is open, but a new factory that will employ over a thousand workers will be open this year. Therefore, Serbia is a country that moves ahead with big and strong steps. Serbia is a country whose IMF as the only country in the world has predicted 5% of GDP growth and we hope that the current generations, but also generations of our children, will not go abroad, but work in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6127	Thank you. Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. You don't want to be a reporter? I'm sorry, since you signed up. Mr. Risticevic, you want to be a reporter? Yeah. ) The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management supported the Law on an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation at its session. Moreover, he welcomed the agreement since it was plant quarantine and plant protection. As most farmers know, and I believe most of the MPs, it is a significant market, a country that often advocates our national state interests, and that co-operation with them is even more valuable because it has resulted in thousands of tonnes of fruit and vegetables being exported, which is covered by this agreement. It is a phytosanitary control which one and the other parties control each other's exports and imports. I must warn our farmers by who knows which way Russia is no longer the Soviet Union, that it cannot export everything and everything there, that Russian controls, controls in Russia, Belarus are far more stringent than controls on exports to the EU and that they have to be careful that there is no repacking by traders, fruit and vegetables buyers. This also resulted in an arrest in the Republic of Serbia once. We are masters to play ourselves, and I warn farmers who export, say, 132 thousand tons of apples, exporting total fruit about 180 thousand tonnes or 180 million pounds, not to play with the export of 180 million kilograms, so that someone can repack a few hats and earn some money in black because it undermines and threatens the Serbian economy, and thus also the economic power of our farmers, and it is often about small agricultural landowners who, on a hectare, two or a few hectares, grow apples, pears, plums, peaches, and thus actually bring money to their agricultural land, in such a way that they support their families, school children, buy clothes, buy machinery, and I must say that since then I'm chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, that since then almost half of the Committee are permanent members and that we are in order to improve the production of the sub-grade system and sub-urbanization of the sub-cession system, so that we are able to sub-urbanation and sub-cession with the productions and sub-urban. All this contributes to the quality fruit production found in Serbia's market. If you want to have a delicious fruit, if you want to have a sweet fruit, you have to have the right seedlings, or you have to do the production by the standards, because today, I repeat, Russia is no longer the Soviet Union, you can't export everything and everything to Russia, but it has to be the kind of fruit they imported until they have imposed sanctions with the EU. The EU's chance to impose sanctions against Russia and Russia is counter-indicative to the sanctions, the chance for our orchards must not be ruined by irresponsible individual procedures. Therefore, my warning regarding plant quarantine and plant protection that almost every fraud by the Russian authorities will be revealed, and this will cause immeasurable damage to the Republic of Serbia, to agricultural land, especially small agricultural land that is involved in the export of fruit. There are large orchards, I'm also worried about them, but most of all for small farmers, because there are lots and small farmers not only the subject of agriculture, but the subject of demographics. If they do not survive in areas where they now work, they produce fruit, these territories will be empty. Let me remind you that the age structure is also in the country for 62 years and if we make a mess of fruit and vegetables, if we put out those small farmers and small agricultural holdings then that territory will remain empty, and that will be a security problem, the problem of sovereignty and the integrity of the Republic of Serbia. So once again, I warn all those who produce fruit and trade fruit and vegetables not to think about repacking our products, or changing them to others and thus jeopardizing themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6129	Thank you. We are now moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. Before that, I just want to, according to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Also, just to remind you that today we're going to be working on the agenda points from 5th to 7th and tomorrow we're going to continue with the remaining points. This means selecting judges and discussing in particular, according to amendments submitted to the laws. At the end of this afternoon's debate, we'll have a vote. Now we move on to, as I said, parliamentary groups. The word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6130	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, format, quality and capacity of each individual can be measured by the capacity and ability to establish relations with other people. In addition, the format, capacity and quality of one country or each country shall be measured by its capacity to establish relations with other countries. Therefore, and as much as this seems to be the topic of protocol relations with other countries, i.e. signing and confirming and agreements and agreements on certain co-operation is a routine part of our work here in the National Assembly. It's a lot more than that. First of all, for the reasons that, before any protocol or agreement comes before us, the MPs, here at the Assembly for confirmation, that is, for discussion and confirmation, you can only imagine, and that the public should know what has to be done to achieve such a protocol, that it is an instance and an instance, from the first steps, to say, in the preparation of this agreement, and before that, in the agreement, in fact, that is to agree these agreements and protocols. So you don't see it here most often, but it just looks like, well, that agreement came from somewhere, and we raise our hands here, we talk a word, and we move on. It's not like that, even if it was a distant Quebec or a world force like the United States and Russia. So it's a very delicate, painful and very important job that can't be done inertly and cannot be done on its own. That's why these discussions on these topics and on these topics that we have here in the National Assembly, yes, it's mostly the point that we, MPs, through these discussions, and then through the vote actually give support, but that's what is the formal aspect of our role when it comes to these points of the agenda. Essentially, this is perhaps the only opportunity for Serbian citizens to actually hear and know about these agreements not only in principle and procedurally, but also in essence, in terms of their importance, their weight and certain implications, which is actually the meaning of the role of the state apparatus and state services, the state authorities, but also because it does not always mean that all of this is easy to do and that it must always be quality. Therefore, when we MPs get the material with reasons, then we can actually get closer to getting acquainted with the quality of these agreements, that is, with all the hard work and expertise that is actually being invested and being invested in the preparation of such agreements, and what we are doing here is some kind of verification, or confirmation, and that is the final act. I say, I feel the need and I believe that, among other things, it is the role of our MPs to actually go deeper, to draw closer to the essence of these agreements and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or to those who have chosen us, or to those before whom we answer. So, on the one hand, as much as we here in the National Assembly have ministers, government representatives and representatives of other authorities from the service, to sort of place accounts here, so if we need to be criticised, but let's not forget that criticism always means a negative attitude, but essentially, language should not mean criticism always be a negative attitude. There should be and there is also a positive and negative criticism, so that we have credibility and credibility to sometimes bring out negative criticism unless we forget positive criticism, in fact, our credibility and obedience to our words will actually be more effective and better received in the citizens themselves. As for the first point ahead of us today, the Agreement with the Government of Quebec on Social Security, therefore, social security is one of the most important aspects of our country, but above all also in relations with international factors, states and other entities of international relations and international law. In fact, it's one of the aspects that seems to me to be neither political nor academic or intellectual, and also media may never have received the right position or the right treatment in the dimension, let me say, essential patriotism. We usually have access to patriotism, the conventional one, I have to say old-fashioned, which is reflected in some kind of racing, showing love for my country, towards my people, which is totally fine, especially if it's honest and especially if it's culturally and civilizedly appropriate and if it's freed from certain day-political pathetics, which is difficult and difficult in some way to define, but we often forget that this is the easiest aspect of patriotism. The simplest thing is to be a patriot after a microphone, either in the congregation, or in the media, or in any other way. So rhetorical patriotism is the most common, easy and cheapest, and for daily-political purposes and the most effective. That's why he's the most common. However, few of us dare, in fact, involve or point to what should be essentially patriotism, which is actually a attitude towards the citizen, especially the attitude towards those topics that are not so attractive in themselves. You know, social issues are never politically attractive, unless they're drastically humanitarianally visible, so they can take the interest or interest of politicians, the media, or the general public. So I would suggest that in the future we pay a little more attention to that kind of patriotism. For example, for me, the quality of the country, the strength of a state, yes, it can be measured by conventional standards of measurement, which I am not going to talk about now, but to the extent that a country has power, capacity, consciousness, initiative, responsibility to be relevant to a student who may have gone to Canada on his own initiative to study, or to Australia, or to be lost on what basis, for the sake of education, adventure, work, anything, it is irrelevant, to the extent that a country knows about that citizen, to the extent that citizen is relevant to her, especially if this citizen is not a voting interest to us here, which is most often important and most often interesting to us politicians, because we do not forget those of whom our status in power, in the National Assembly, is directly dependent on us, it is kind of a reflex activity and a reflex reaction reaction to the citizen, which we do not consider our political needs to our citizens, which we do not necessarily forget the political needs of our own. These are actually those citizens who are scattered around the world, especially as we know, here, that topic will certainly be treated through various other political activities, including inter-party dialogue, which is already ongoing and has begun, let's say the figures of our citizens who participate in the diaspora elections are very small, they are not so interesting that we would significantly address them, or pay attention to that line, by a narrow or direct party-political or electoral interest, but therefore there is a state-of-the-art awareness, national awareness, actually real political awareness and responsibility, any position that we are in. So I want to express my satisfaction that the state shows this capacity to one day confirm the Agreement with the Republic of Lesota, on the second day with Quebec, on the third day with the countries that are just emerging, for which many have heard, for which many have not heard, it actually confirms the capacity and quality of the country itself. It's easy to reach the microphone and say we're the leaders in the region, we're the strongest, the best, the most beautiful. So just draw the light's attention to tracking our real quality, unless it's being followed by what's really a state towards its citizens, wherever they are, it's supposed to work. Therefore, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support all agreements, including the one with the government of Quebec that I am talking about. Of course, social policy topics are inexhaustible, but we will not try to exhaust them all in today’s debate. As far as the U.S. Protocol on scientific and technological co-operation is concerned, it is particularly interesting to me for the reasons that I have more information through the competent armpit that I am leading, which is why I did not engage as a committee reporter, so I would simply not speak twice on the subject in a few minutes, which I do not think is necessary. Definitely topics of scientific and technological co-operation, i.e. topics of science and technological development, are topics that are not only roof and titled interesting. True, these are topics that there is a full consensus on all political structures and factors regarding their importance, but I am not sure that we are all always equally ready to enter into the essence of these topics, not only in terms of their treatment in international relations and establishing and maintaining certain agreements and protocols on co-operation, but also in terms of the importance itself. What I want to stress at this point is that in recent years, we have serious steps, at least in terms of showing consciousness from the position of competent state authorities, when it comes to science and technological development, not just awareness in some principle, but through concrete steps. I especially want, by who knows which way, to welcome and support the idea of the further opening of scientific and technological parks, which is either a podium or a playground that can only be built, not only to play serious scientific games, but first of all, it's actually a nursery in which we will be able to provide some kind of test, testing, testing, and that means discovering real talent, which I think is another one of, in some ways, an axiom in terms of defining our scientific potentials. Ladies and gentlemen, for serious science and for serious technological development, it is not enough to have only ideas and will. So, for the development of serious science and for serious technological development, a serious state is needed. There are things where you can prove yourself individually. There are first steps towards innovation, initiative, where talent is the most important. But in the second, third and next steps, without a strong state, without a rich state, without a country where authorities are aware that the development of science and serious technological development requires serious budgetary resources. Well, look who's giant in science today. Giants in science are the giants in money, the giants in wealth. Not only are those necessary relationships, but they just can't be different. So it's not about whether or not someone is going to invest, but there's no money without science, serious technological development, and there's no serious technological development, and there's no science without money. These are things that are simply mutually conditioned. What makes me happy is that despite all the hardships of many, economic, political, social, which this country has been facing in the past years and in the last three decades, in this rise in the recovery of the economy in the last few years, this moment has not actually been neglected, because the easiest thing for it to do is to forget, to neglect science and education, because they kind of experience themselves as a burden and as a ballast. In fact, this measures the real quality of the ability and awareness of the leadership of each country. So it's no secret that failures in the economy, even major failures in the economy, if one government destroys the country economically and economically, it's one good government, the next good power can correct for even a few years, not so long, which we finally had in practice when it comes to passing and this power as an indication that it's possible and as much as possible even when it looks impossible. But what I want is for sure, for who knows which way, to draw attention, to fail in education, to shape our children and mass design, and especially to shape talented children or children of exceptional talents and abilities, such failures if you do in one or two decades, to correct the consequences takes you at least three decades. That's why it's supposed to be the focus of our interest. I express my joy that, despite all the troubles, and even this last one, all this cove of pandemic and everything else, they didn't throw us out of the way, they didn't distract us, not in terms of consciousness, not in terms of responsibility, but in terms of practical and operational behavior. That's why I'm encouraging the continuation of science and technology parks. Among other things, one of the important points of our political agreement is the establishment, formation, construction and opening of a scientific and technological park in Novi Pazar, which, along the highways, along the railways, the pipeline and all that we have talked about many times, I think the most important, even with the greatest joy of establishing this scientific and technological park in Novi Pazar, where we will actually get all these great talents and from children who have good family support but also from those who have strong children from our hills, gourds and highlands, caves, bihorskih and all others to get the chance that in fact in this nursery science and knowledge we will show what they know, they know and later get from the state support and are forced as they deserve, which will actually be on the welfare of the community, society, the state, in the future, and which we will prove that our children do not show their abilities when they lack, but to show here and to prove all these abilities. I want to point out this opportunity, considering this fundamental correctness, that, for this short time, with the current position at the head of the Ministry of Education, we have significantly improved the relationship which was otherwise solid and with the past composition of the Ministry's leading work and that we work very well together, and that we have actually had a very thorough analysis through the board, not only on this subject, but on all others that are ahead of us, which I think is a point. So that we have such a relationship where we can actually have full freedom in each other's relations, to bring out both positive and negative criticism if we have to, but to actually show capacity that we are on the same side, that we are on the same path, that we are fighting for the same goal and that there can be no legislative authority successful and executive failure and vice versa – executive successful and legislative failure. So here we are in the tandem and I am pleased that, in fact, even after the last elections in this term, we have received new energy, new momentum and in the structure of the Committee on Education and the structure of the Ministry. In this regard, support and this agreement, as well as this third one with Russia, for which I no longer have time to express my views, but support is unquestionable. Every good thing, so I'll see you a lot more times.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6131	I thank the Vice President of the National Assembly. The president of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Branimir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6132	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, we also discussed last-sessions in plenary agreements that were very important, an agreement with the United States, with China and France. But the agreements we're discussing today are equally important, especially with the development of science and technology, and therefore for the development of our economy. They are also important from the aspect of the social security of our citizens working abroad, and are also important on the plan for the external trade of agricultural products, more specifically the area concerning phytosanitary issues. First, I would say something and single out a Protocol relying on an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the US Government on technological co-operation. This is another one in a series of agreements that says that our relations with the United States are improving, that they are going in one positive direction and that we are building better relations with the United States, which is the result of a good foreign policy. Definitely all these agreements are a signal for investors who come from the United States to invest in Serbia, that we have one stable legal system, that we are a stable political climate for all those who want to come to invest in Serbia, to deal with science and to invest in research. The development of each modern society is based on the development of science and technology. The scientific and technological achievements form the basis of economically developed countries, pervade all aspects of human life, especially at a time when globalisation is highly expressed, at a time when faster scientific and technological progress is rapidly. That is precisely what all those who represent the theory that science, technological development and innovation are the most important generator of economic development of each country. I'm going to list two examples that prove that it's very important that the state is constantly investing in research and development. These are examples of Israel and South Korea. Israel is a leader in this area. Israel invests 4% of its GDP annually in research and development, and when we see how much Israel's economy is worth, and we see these investments in science, in research, in development, we come up with an annual figure of as much as 14 billion dollars, which is impressive for a country that has nine million inhabitants. It's similar in South Korea. And this country has defined itself as a similar amount of GDP, when we speak in percentages, to invest in research and development, by being a more humane country, a country that has a larger territory, a more developed economy, and that sum reaches up to 63 billion dollars on an annual basis. So if we look at only these two countries, we can easily find a successful formula for economic development, and they're proof that investing in science, in technology, is a real recipe for every country's economic momentum. It is not easy to keep up with the most developed countries in this area. In addition, the issue is that the EU has set itself the task of investing in science, research and development as 3% of GDP by 2020, and only two EU member states have crossed this threshold, namely Austria and Sweden. It just shows how hard it is to follow the most developed countries in the world. When we see where Serbia is on this map, we can say that we are successful. We are ranked with some EU members such as Slovakia, Croatia and Bulgaria, when we talk about investing in science and development. I think we have a well-founded reason for optimism, because indeed in recent years there has been significant progress in scientific and technological research and science. We have set the priority to successfully round up the digitalisation process, and we are doing great, and we are doing a good job in terms of requalification for the IT sector. I would like to remind you that three months ago the government adopted the Scientific and Technological Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2021 to 2025, titled "The Power of Knowledge", and of course the Ministry of Education played a very important role in this strategy. When we talk about the term "Knowledge Power", I think it is the most appropriate name and that this name actually shows that we are defined to always point out both knowledge and science in the first place, as a basis for our further advancement, as a basis for our education and it is good that we pay special attention to this area. The strategy provides for empowerment, i.e. strengthening scientific and research institutions, investing in infrastructure, and in this way these institutions will be better positioned on a regional but also on a European map when we talk about research and science. These institutions will be trained to address far more complex issues than they are now, but on the other hand, it is good that the strategy also involves investing in individuals, in young scientists. I think that in this way individuals will be able to participate in some more complex projects ahead of them and that they will thus create new knowledge, new technologies, which brings new jobs to our country. When we talk about improving this area, we must point out that the system of intellectual property protection also plays an important role. The protection of intellectual property is a key part of this Protocol, which relies on the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States, and it is important that we provide such a legal framework that these legal norms will effectively edit this area, and without it, even interested in innovators would not spread and improve their knowledge, nor would they apply that knowledge in practice. I've heard that story before, and it's always worth mentioning, that when we say about someone when they steal something from the store, they cause our suspicions and justifiably declare it a thief, but when someone copys some computer software, when someone copys an unauthorized book in a copy shop, I get the impression that we're indifferent to it. We have to account for that, because whoever wrote the book, who published the scientific paper, and he's supposed to live off his work, we need to put him in the same rank as whoever makes a loaf of bread and sells at the bakery. It's his product. So we need to be aware of the importance of protecting intellectual property, because a third of world trade is currently relying on immaterial goods and services protected by intellectual property. People often share music, movies, books on the Internet. They're not even aware that they're violating intellectual property rights, and it's even become so common that people don't think at all, that they're committing a violation. According to some data, more than 100,000 people are employed in these creative industries. It's the IT sector, the music industry, the film, the radio difusion, and it's right about piracy doing a lot of damage to these industries, but it's also doing a lot of damage to the entire economy. That is why it is important to support this agreement, because it in some way regulates this area of intellectual property protection especially in times like I said expressed globalisation, where the Internet has made it possible for the whole world to be a truly big village and that everyone is available wherever they live on the globe. The law, in fact, should be an effective tool that enables creative people to live off their work. We are, as a society, obliged to support creativity, obliged to support the creative industry. I will remind you that the number of patents registered worldwide is measured over the year in millions, as well as the number of stamps registered and the number of industrial designs. A good legal framework, respect for bilateral agreements and international conventions, which we are talking about today, is actually the right basis for one legal certainty, to improve the environment for external trade, to invest in new economies, or industries that rely precisely on the protection of rights and intellectual property. The benefits of this are all those who earn from scientific research or art work, but the benefits should be indirectly given to all citizens, because in this way we get one predictability of a business environment in which business is being done and thus increase the chance of increasing both domestic and foreign investment. It is also commendable that our legislation is in line with the legislation in force in the developed countries of the European Union and is in line with international standards. Equally important is the Treaty on Social Security between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Quebec, in fact it should only regulate one issue that has not been regulated by the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Canada, and this is what the Minister of State spoke of earlier. The implementation of this Treaty provides for the exercise of the right of PIO, rights based on labour damage, occupational illness and health insurance. I will remind Serbia has signed agreements with 29 countries that are currently referring to social security. It is these agreements that allow people who have worked in these countries to make pensions easier, not counting the former Yugoslav republics, that our country pays out pensions that have been made in Serbia in 27 countries of the world, and that is about 13,000 users, a little more. People working abroad and part of the internships they have achieved in another country are often in doubt about how to exercise their pension right. A foreign pension, just like ours, is not obtained by automation and there are two ways to make it happen. If we have signed a social security agreement with that country, it will be easier for someone to exercise the right to retire, if we do not have the contract signed, then each individual will have to submit a request to a specific fund in a specific foreign country. Exactly, when we compare these two procedures, we come to the conclusion and we see why such agreements are important to citizens who, when they come to that period, have the right to retire so that they can exercise that right in a much easier way than when there is no such kind of agreement. It is very important for us from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia to take care of what we have been working with our coalition partners for years to improve the position of pensioners in each field. It is important and we point out that the pension fund must not be seen as a social institution, that it must be one functional fund that will provide every decent age. We now have one stable fund, we have stable finances and what's most important, regular pension payments from real sources. Finally, on the agenda and the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of plant quarantine and plant protection. By adopting and implementing this Agreement, we prevent the introduction and spread of quarantine and other dangerous harmful organisms and thus prevent possible losses that can be caused. My colleagues before me talked about the importance of the Russian market and the potentials it has, that is, what we can achieve by performing on that market. So it's important that we have these agreements, it's important that we respect standards, respect procedures and respect these standards, and we will provide a safe ticket to large markets, such as Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6133	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the succeeding group, Unity Serbia, MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6134	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, Mr. Ruzic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are here today discussing the draft laws on three agreements, the agreement, or the Treaty with the Canadian province of Quebec in the area of social security, the Treaty with the United States on Scientific and Technological Cooperation, as well as the Treaty with the Russian Federation on Plant Quarantine and Plant Protection. Speaking of similar agreements earlier at similar sessions and similar debates, I pointed out that we view JS agreements as small steps towards increasing and increasing Serbia's integration into international flows as small steps towards Serbia's co-operation with the whole world, as small steps in the so-called so-called "Smalls". silent diplomacy. These are all the reasons why we will vote for this agreement in the voting day, as I have said, each of these agreements strengthens Serbia and Serbia's international position for the last nine years, indeed has one extremely strong diplomatic activity and this strong diplomatic activity has made Serbia strong today, respected in the International Community, to hear and respect Serbia's word. This diplomatic activity is never more important than today, when we see the last month we have, I say, a flood of various non-papeers, various pressures on the state of Serbia, and all about our territorial integrity and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. And in this diplomatic activity, we from the JS believe that all, the state, but also all political actors, must contribute to this fight to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, in this struggle for Serbia to be who it is and remain strong, to remain its own. Of course, Dragan Markovic Palma and JS have made a small contribution years ago by building friendly ties in many countries, such as Egypt, which is certainly an important country of the Middle East and the Arab world, such as Turkey and Austria, which have always had their own interests as countries centuries ago and have been present in the Balkans, such as Romania and Bulgaria, which are our important neighbours and, of course, Italy, for example, is the country from which, besides Germany, the most investors in our country come. Indeed, it is our position that all political actors on the political scene of Serbia should give, in accordance with their capabilities, some contribution to strengthening Serbia's positions in the international community. However, we are witnessing that we have a group on the political scene of Serbia, I would call them political Pharisees and political pests, who instead of working to strengthen Serbia's position, instead of working to create good ties, they are doing damage to Serbia, destroying their performances and disabling everything that is done positively in Serbia, because Serbia is not responding to them as it is today, strong, respected. Serbia on its knees is the only one who answers it. Why? Because if Serbia is strong and respected, they are marginal political figures in such a Serbia. If Serbia is weak on its knees, only then and in this way can they be brought by external factors to be important in our country. Let's just think of one far-fetched harmful initiative by Vuk Jeremic in front of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which has caused great damage to our country. Let us remember, we have, let's say, another case, at a time when the Italian ambassador to Jagodina said - welcome to small Italy, precisely for reasons to say that there are many Italian factories and investors who came to Jagodin, former Serbian ambassador to Rome, Mrs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, drags, of course, everyone has its own cycle of corruption, including Sanda Raskovic Ivić, and that lady is dragging the Honorary Consul of Serbia into this cycle of corruption, into this mud, bringing in a man who has great respect for the Republic of Serbia, who has strongly and strongly represented the interests of the Republic of Serbia in his country, Italy, who has made many business and political and any other contacts between Italy and Serbia. But that doesn't match Sandy Raskovic Ivić and these other Pharisees. Why? I told them not to respond strong and respected Serbia, but rather to Serbia on their knees, because only then can they be important. Of course, they are doing damage because a good man, one of Serbia's respecters and not only a respected man, a man who loves our country, who loves our people, who really is a friend of our country, had to distance himself from such mud and such a circle of corruption to people like Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who, once again, was an ambassador of Serbia in Rome and who, by her lies, had to spit out and accused, of course falsely, not only Dragan Markovic Palm, not only Mr Veraldi, who we are talking about, she has also lauded and accused both Serbia and the Serbs and the Serbian people, and without a speck of shame. I recently asked the question – why did Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić not make an official note, why didn't you send a deposit to Belgrade if you really had the knowledge you were talking about, or who you lied about, or why you didn't do the job you were getting paid for? Were you drunk with Roman squares, fountains, mondenian life, so you didn't have time to do your job, or is all this really one invention in your circle of corruption? Of course, the Pharisee of the Pharisees in that group is Mrs. Marinika Tepic, who accuses the Serbian people, puts her signature on and asks this high house to adopt a resolution on the Srebrenica genocide, wanting to accuse every citizen of Serbia, wanting to accuse the state in which he lives, in which he has all the privileges, to seal each of us, and our future generations, the seal of the genocide people, which, of course, we have never been, never been, nor will we be. This same Marinika Tepic accuses, of course, of being disgustingly lying, and Dragan Markovic Palm and the people around him and JS, making up fake affairs. You've been through these holidays even witnesses that immediately on her Twitter account and Facebook page she put how their officials are intimidated in Jagodina, so their apartment was robbed. Of course the police immediately came forward and determined that there was no home invasion. But regardless, she's not good with Serbian police, she doesn't trust the police, as she didn't trust the prosecution a week ago. Why? She's a Pharisee by herself. She doesn't need the police, she doesn't need the prosecution. She doesn't need a court. She's investigating herself, she's suing herself, she's judging herself, and she's judging herself, as the Pharisees did, and we know it thousands of years ago. That's why I call them the Pharisees of the Serbian political scene. They're not gonna make it. They're trying to charge you. They judge, they judge. They don't need any evidence. They don't even need the truth. They are allowed to lie and push their lies through the media as the ultimate truth. They don't judge Dragan Markovic Palma. They don't judge the current government. They judge the Serbian people, i.e. they judge, I would call it, the Shumadi, Timoko Krajina, and all other parts of Serbia where the deep-rooted Serbian tradition, the Serbian culture, where everything that is positive, humanity and heroism, has been rooted, all that has been grown through history and cherished in the Serbian people. They despise such a Serbian, honorable, domestic, traditional, despised her from the bottom of her soul. They know that only if they destroy that tree in Šumadija, that tree that was planted by both Karadjordje and Milos Obrenović and all others, which has very solid roots and a very branched tree that covers all of Serbia, only if they destroy such a forest, a traditional, good, strong, honorable, they can become as important on the political scene. Of course, they do, I said, hate it, because they want something else entirely. They want an Orvelovic, mondialyst, anti-ideological and distopisic Serbia, a Serbia that is all the opposite of what has been in the last few centuries and that the Serbian people have grown and cherished. They want, of course, Serbia on its knees. The strong Serbia is not responding to them, but it will not go away. We and the state of Serbia work by continuing to co-operate with the world, monitoring all normal civilization flows, but today Serbia is protecting its own interests, tradition and culture. It's tough, Serbia. They're deep cultural and civilizational roots so the Pharisees can unearth them and destroy them. Serbia has always been a world, Serbia has always been a Europe, but Serbia has always been its own. And when she was her own, she was strong. When she was on her knees, she wasn't respected and she wasn't herself. Therefore, these agreements, which we will vote on in the voting day as I have said, are good, are necessary, because Serbia is today the world, because Serbia today is Europe and Serbia today itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6135	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers with fellow Members, dear colleagues today are facing seemingly agreements that once, in some earlier parliaments, were mostly routine, perhaps even a little more detailed. But what is important today is to tell the citizens of Serbia, especially at a time when the world is fundamentally changing, when a small micro-organism is not pleonasm, but indeed the accent on it stopped the planet for three months and showed all of us where we are, how strong we are and how much we can meet the challenges that we thought we were ready for, but we understood that we weren't. I'm glad that Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic is here today, is part of the crisis staff and I think that part of my address today will also apply to all of you and to the citizens. What is significant to me is that this government, along with Serbia's political leadership, especially when it comes to key areas for all of us, for every citizen, for everyday functioning, thank God for that, does not make a rigid difference between the East and the West, the North and the South, but is guided solely by the national interests of the Serbian state, makes agreements with everyone where it is estimated to be of interest to each individual citizen of Serbia. With this in mind, the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Co-operation with the United States is of paramount importance to the state of Serbia. The United States of America, with which we rarely have political disagreements, major conflicts burdened by the past, for a reason often, when it comes to other areas of interest in Serbia's progress, such as science and technique, such as health care, such as the development of our health and our capacities, infrastructures, are issues of a couple of excellences where there are no political differences. Of course politics, ladies and gentlemen, has an impact on everything and the assumption of one agreement is political will. I know this well, as well as colleagues, senior MPs, we have on our joy many younger MPs, so thank God they didn't feel it, but many of us in our time because of sanctions, Mr. Minister of Education, were withdrawn serious scholarships that may have led our scientific careers beyond the borders of this country, only because of politics. What's good is we're building frames for generations to come today. What is of paramount importance, we give our young capacities the opportunity to be able to school anywhere, so that they can show their talents and skills on the international market. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I believe that you all know, especially the younger team of MPs, today only education and the acquisition of skills from the roots has changed, today younger generations rarely refuse to engage more seriously in Serbia's education system. He's bound to, but for them, he's rarely routine. Today, on the Internet, children are educated, getting skills to tutorials. I'll give you a few examples. A boy who was judged by his parents for spending significant time playing games has become one of the most prestigious gamers in the world, so the game industry and not just that. His game, his software, in fact, made that boy look at incredible heights. Here in Belgrade, Serbia, we have one of the five best gaming industries, such as Nordeus. The owner of that company is a boy who started out, like you're watching an American movie, from a small space with a few of his colleagues, and today the world famous Murinjo actually advertises certain games. Nordeus is part of a digital Serbia and is indeed a waste of extraordinary personnel when it comes to programmers, gamers, etc. Not to mention how much the company itself supports Serbia's GDP by exporting its product and its services. In this company they work, you won't believe, almost the best programmers and all the other activities within the IT sector, and we're really recognizable by that. Our innovative technologies, the start-app ecosystem, are among the ranks of highly-ranked ecosystems. To improve that, what is necessary is that there is a framework of co-operation with countries that are giant in that area. One of them is America. We have here a girl from the SPS who is a descendant of the great Pupin and, at first, our cooperation, I'm really glad for that fact, with America she went mostly thanks to the personal relationships of our giants in the field of science and patents and incredible technological achievements. One of these was the famous Mihajlo Pupin, but considering, I suppose, that fellow Pupin will talk about it, I will do a little more Nikola Tesla, and perhaps my favorite person in the line of the big ones – Mileva Maric Einstein. So we have something to be proud of and every time we talk about scientific and technological co-operation with America, we remember our greats. Thanks to their personal reputations and relationships, we've been working together with the United States. However, what is of particular importance here is that in 2010 a framework is being created and that, now that you're leaving, you're reading all these projects really in continuity work seriously to provide incentives and assumptions for our young researchers, our young scientists, to participate, to buy knowledge and to have an opportunity to place this on the international market. In a digital era like all of us, not even physically necessary to leave Serbia, you can stay here and from here to work for all companies. With that in mind, and we adopted an act a while ago that allows for the opening of a broadband internet for rural areas that will be connected somewhere, you will correct me, Mr. Minister, about 200 schools, if not more, across Serbia. Look, these are huge investments and investments in the Covid crisis period, when everything in Europe and the world is shooting, which means that we will be able to unload big cities, bring back smaller environments and what I would recommend and beg the ministry, and it is to pay particular attention to young talents. When we talk about science and researchers, we often think and talk through projects, Mr. Minister, of those already in the system. I guarantee you, many are not. Perhaps, among them all, and without titles, extraordinary talents are hidden. I was just talking about learning through tutorial examples of young people achieving amazing results, but they're out of the system, they're self-taught. Let's do like we used to do scouting, let's organize a lot of competitions, where all these people coming from the poor environments, who haven't had the opportunity to get into the system will have the same chance of showing their abilities. Also, many application criteria cite irregular bureaucratic procedures. It's okay. People spend their time, they make huge efforts, they sacrifice themselves, we all know what scientific research means. It's a tough road. Indeed, if you love science, if you love research, you must give up, conditionally speaking, normal life. There are others. Please, when you think about it all, my note, and we forget about it regularly, is the next, let's give it slowly to the primate abilities. So, with those abilities and those skills, I know that Mr. Minister knows this, that he has this background of Western education, the unequivocal degrees are not decisive but the "skils" or the skills you possess. Let's pay special attention to that too. I've seen material and information, "dajest" when it comes to bilateral and multilateral co-operation and how much the ministry is making an effort to really cover every area, it's not easy for you. In your portfolio, you cover something that I would have separated for a long time, education, science doesn't go with each other. It's going, but it's easier to separate, as well as technological development. These are important things for every society, if not the most important. That's also one of my recommendations. We meet often, and now we get to know each other more through the Committee on Education and Science. I, as head of the Digitalization and Information Society Subcommittee, fully understand what every day looks like to you. It's not easy, but it's a lot easier for you when you have a foundation in the government that's been defined this way. You will rarely be criticised for something and we often hear it on the Committee, and that is good, that education has one major, very significant feature such as education and that during the period of digitisation, of course, parents and everyone else are concerned about what is the educational role. I now have to congratulate you honestly because you have succeeded in starting with huge support, all of you as one, to manage when the planet stopped for three months and that I am an educational process does not lose in that. I don't know if people are even aware of the fact that they needed to adapt the entire education system at the moment and don't make any difference to children. Is that ideal? Well, it's not. We're in fact in the declaration of war, he's released a virus that's just waiting for us. Well, I'm suffocating under a mask while I'm telling you, a moment to relax and cut us down. He won't disappear. Really, my sincere congratulations. I see the projections for the coming periods, I know how many professors you're going to equip with laptops, how many classrooms you're going to digitize, from my perspective, given the board that I'm running, you couldn't have done any better. That's the future. How will we deal with the educational function of education? That's the thing now, and I believe you'll also make it a broader public discourse on the subject. In that you cannot be alone, nor can all the burden be upon you. That's what we're all responsible for. From the family, because everything goes from there to there. In public, they'll be looking at you very rarely, mostly. I would have a lot more to say on the subject and education and science and everything that makes our education system and this period when Serbia changes, as well as the whole world. What might define in one sentence, Serbia is changing in a way that it used this crisis as a chance, and not as a flood, in a way that very quickly thanks to well thought-out policy and thanks to the sound preparation of fiscal, pre-stabilising the financial and economic system, it could have been this crisis, and I must admit, God has looked at it, so we are not relying on those sectors that are almost gone like tourism, traffic, etc. Many airlines went bankrupt, we kept ours as much as possible, but what I also have to say, and Mrs. Daria Kisic Tepavcevic is there, is that thanks to both a certain part and a loan and a boost, we rarely talk about it, we put into drive, me fortunately, our Torlak. I have to admit, I haven't been vaccinated yet, even though I hooked up with Kovid in October, I'm waiting for Torlak. I'm waiting for Sputnik to come out of Torlak, here's what I'm publicly saying. Not just me, but my whole family. There is no greater importance when a small Serbia determines its framework, which is sovereignty in each area, especially in health care. We now see its significance, especially in science and research, especially in education. He works very wisely with all those using all their advantages and learning from their mistakes. Why? Well, for those who come, not for us. Our lives have been swept away by certain political wills of great forces, drawn out. Many of our careers were totally ended in another direction suddenly, cut in the middle of the road, my generation mutilated. Our lives would look completely different. We all looked to this great world, a developed world, to gather knowledge there and return to our country. We were prevented from it because someone decided that our fate in this part of the world would look that way. And one more thing I'm gonna end up with. We've been listening to how many people leave Serbia lately. Didn't Nikola Tesla leave this climate? Haven't many others left this climate and achieved an incredible, incredible success? A fact that is often forgotten to be said, and I must say that because of my younger colleagues and younger citizens who may be watching this, in a period of great Yugoslavia, when, in the memory of our parents, and I remember the good of that period, an extraordinary life of the 1960s and the '70s, I have this report from the Central Intelligence Agency of America, and from these reports I learned the most about us, do you know how much outflow it was then? Between 1965. In 1968, 1968 in particular, 5% of the entire population of the former Yugoslavia. It's a report from the Central Intelligence Agency of America, and if you let me, I'll just quote because I'm trying exclusively to refer to facts. This was selected for publication on 15 December 2016. Otherwise, it was just for the use of the American Intelligence Agency, an extremely serious report from September 27, 1972 when they analyzed emigration. So, half-immigration, as they then called it, those Yugoslavs who were allowed by the regime to work outside the country, before 1965, only a few thousand were in this category, in 1965 in co-operation due to the economic control reform programme were naturally weakened, since then, especially since the first half of 1968, the number of those, and so on, which was leaving Yugoslavia each year, has grown soon. The number of returning to the country has dropped drastically, so far, and as I told you the date, or writing this report in 1972, from 1968 to 1972, it was estimated that a million such workers were out of the country. Most of them in their 20s or 30s plus one smaller number of their family members, and now this would finally represent about 5% of the entire population of Yugoslavia, and these are the golden years. Older generations remember that well, people are always...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6137	Excuse me. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6138	... I'm just finishing up the sentence, thank you for that, and so it is now, with the variation that some of them come back. Finally, if our incomes are only 25% of the income in Germany, then it's logical why people try to get there to achieve all their existential rights, but we have to make sure we get them a good return here. I'd have something else to say, but I'm trying to honor the weather. Thank you for your understanding, Madam Chairman, and I hope that both Mrs. Daria and Mr. Ruzic will have further to say everything that we and the citizens are interested in. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6139	I thank the president of the SPAS parliamentary group. The word has first of all a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6140	Thank you. The Honored President, the Honorable National MPs, I would like, above all, to say, without the intention of taking valuable time to point out precisely the fact that it was actually recorded and very constructive, I would say, the debate and the apparition of the most important, I would say, segments of educational process, scientific technological development, bilateral or multilateral collaboration in the field of science or technological development, the digitisation that I would say, above all thanks to the insistence of Prime Minister Ana Brnabić and in the previous term of office, but also this, put on one pedestal and indeed became one of the priorities of these two governments, although some with some dose of skeptics referred to this digitalisation and looked at a purely technical technological process, it is evident that digitalization is actually one social process of a couple of exeleans, which helps us all of us, which is applied to the educationally educational way, in fact. We have shown that in the previous term we owe thanks first of all to the school administrations and the teaching staff who have adapted, but also to this digital classroom which we will hopefully bring to the greatest extent during this year and to the greatest number of finals and to one teaching staff education, which is needed to simply coordinate this digital descriptiveness with the need to transfer knowledge, on the other hand, by students and students, with the knowledge process, I think it is precious, that it is important that it shows what we have to do in the 21st century and what we did just in the time of the Coronus virus. I think we're one of the best organized states. We took advantage of this very adaptability, and I think that this certainly educational role, which you have potentiated many times, is important, but we also need to know that these younger generations, younger ages, are much more acceptable to that technical technological description. Very quickly they manage, it is easier for them to customize it with their needs, but certainly we will not give up that traditional way of educationally educational process if this situation allows us, even if it does not allow us, because simply this traditional way is the basis especially in the youngest age categories, the basis for acquisition and working habits and for socialization and all that it does after one vertical of any person, because from that time on, you get all these preliminary opportunities to receive all of those knowledge by about 12 years. I forgot what the Rules of Procedure said, the chairman. Is it three minutes or can I talk to you for a minute?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6141	As a proposer to the will.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6142	Thank you. I haven't sat here in a while. I don't want to take the time, but I really thank my colleague Ragush for pointing to the very important topics. There are many topics you have touched, but we will have time for today, and we will look back on specific topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6143	I would like to thank the first Deputy Prime Minister. The word is from Minister Kisic Tepavcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6144	Dear People's MPs, thank you for your very nice, summary, but essential exposure to all the important issues surrounding us. I would like to comment on a short part that relates to an important news that you have apostrophe in your speech, which refers to strengthening the production capacities of "Torlak" and its return to the full glory that absolutely deserves. We have repeatedly pointed out that surely the greatest public health news in this century is for our people, and that is what we all look forward to. You know we're also recognized by the current leading manufacturers when it comes to Kovid-19 just like a country where they can first repack their vaccine. It is a great trust of these countries, but not only the trust that is based on friendly relations, but exactly the trust that is based on the capacities of our "Torlak" that can do such a sophisticated process. Many people experience the process of packing and labeling as something that is useful, as if packing other goods. This is also how we need the technology we have, the training of the personnel we have and the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will continue and how to invest in this institute is something that encourages us all, because we are absolutely clear that the country that is capable of producing the vaccine is a country that will certainly have advantages over other countries in the coming period. As for your finding that you do not want to vaccinate either you or your family until our vaccine is produced in "Torlak", the fact is that it will wait for us for years to come. We will certainly be ready to produce this vaccine, because we have both the strength and the capacity and the absolute support of the state. However, in the meantime, it is very important that we react quickly, that, apart from being available to us vaccines, which is a necessary step, for everything that is necessary is that we all accept this vaccine as quickly as possible, to vaccinate ourselves because only by a rapid reaction at a shorter time interval can we achieve collective immunity. So, it is the fact that in the coming years we will also have a vaccine produced in our "Torlak", but in the meantime we need to take advantage of the opportunity, the opportunity to have safe and effective vaccines available. I once again appeal to all of our citizens who have never done it before to vaccinate. The victory over this virus is within our grasp, but we cannot succeed unless each of us realizes that a link is necessary in that chain. Here we must act as a team, no matter what belief we have. We're all one team here, and that's the only way we can win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6145	I thank the Minister for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. The word is Marina Ragush, I presume. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6146	Not so many replicas, but I'm using my time. Thank you for that. I have to ask you, Madam Chairman, can I double it, since I am also answering to Ms. Minister Tepavcevic and Mr. Ruzic, or can I only use, what, two, three minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6147	Two minutes, but I'll be tolerated. So, up to four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6148	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I really wasn't precise. I am waiting for Sputnik-V to exit the Torlak capacity and as far as I understand it will be already in mid-flight. Of course I'm joining your appeal. I think it's the most important thing, the only way we can deal with this virus that's causing a severe infection, with unpredictable currents and consequences. So I'm also joining the appeal. I think all those citizens who are not contraindicated should receive the vaccine, because it's the only way we can protect ourselves and those closest to us. For "Torak" I must point out that "Torak" has been installed in the capacity thanks to the European Investment Bank, to be precise by the end of the project – "Research and Development in the Public Sector", which is a sub-project that was actually put on its feet after 15 years with its capacities. To be honest, in terms of vaccine sovereignty, it was one of the most important facts that I had the opportunity to put in this little brain that I still had. About digitisation and what Mr Ruzic said, because of fellow MPs who may be from other areas, and perhaps a little less follow this one, and especially because of the citizens of Serbia, to understand and understand that our gross domestic product is not huge, we are not Germany, we cannot compare with the big countries, but only a few of the data that I received from the ministry thanks to Mrs Parezovic. From the budget of the Republic of Serbia from 2018 to 2020 there are 10,000 digital classrooms, projectors, laptops, 2,000 laptops for teachers. In 2019, 8,000 digital classrooms, 500 projects, 8,000 laptops for teachers. In 2020, the equipment of 10,000 classrooms was provided with loans from the European Investment Bank of 37m euros. Preparation of equipment for 18,000 laptops for teachers and 21,500 digital classrooms. Part of the equipment to be provided from the aforementioned European Investment Bank loan, which is planned for some 10 years, will be allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget this year, ladies and gentlemen, 600 million dinars for equipment alone. 789 million dinars will be allocated from the ministry's budget to obtain digital content, licenses and training from teachers for the use of equipment and digital teaching facilities. My time is limited. Thank you, Madam Chairman, for this much understanding, but I think this was very important to mention the effort we all make to make in what one virus has cut, to change the world from the root may have accelerated some development that Serbia has not really thought about in a certain percentage, but it has shown that Mr. Ruzic has been reluctant to say that we are very adaptable and ready for incredible changes that other nations cannot and cannot imagine, dream of. Madam Chairman, thank you very much for understanding. I know you have strict respect for the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope this is our very constructive day and that we will have the opportunity to hear the things we may have neglected and forgotten in our exhibitions. An important message to the citizens of Serbia, that we are all here with only one thought, how to make a certain and safe future and to improve at least every day for one shade better and better. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6149	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Justina Pupin Koscal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6150	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, above all, I wish, since we have not worked for the past two days, that all of us Orthodox Christians wish for a happy Easter, Christos Voscrese. Today we have three very important agreements on the agenda. One with the U.S., relating to scientific and technological co-operation, one with the Russian Federation on plant quarantine and plant protection and a third agreement with the government of Quebec on social security. All agricultural cultures are attacked to a greater or lesser extent by various diseases or weeds. Some of them affect the reduction of yields, the quality of products, and some can lead to the complete destruction of the plant culture itself, which further causes many other problems. Today, an increasingly industrial way of production is being used that can further affect and strengthen the development of numerous diseases. As a man needs medical attention, animal care by veterinarians, so plants should be taken care of, which is primarily for plant protection experts. Our country has excellent political, economic and traditional friendly relations with the Russian Federation. This includes co-operation in a number of areas and a large number of agreements. Given that Serbia is exporting a lot, but also a lot of imports from the Russian Federation, it is extremely important that both the area of plant protection and plant quarantine is regulated by one agreement. One important measure in preventing the spread of harmful organisms is plant quarantine, which exists in almost all countries of the world. This measure implies the isolation of plants and fruit material over a certain period of time when imports and exports are imported and exported. The reason for the existence of this measure is to defend the agricultural production of a country. Our country is largely dependent on agriculture and yield, which proved to be very significant in the course of the pandemic last year. When we talk about social security agreements, Serbia has in the last ten years concluded a large number of agreements that regulate this area and we currently have about 30, including Austria, Switzerland, Belgium, Turkey, etc. Today is the agenda of the Social Security Treaty with the government of Quebec. Accordingly, it is important to say that Serbia already has a social security agreement with Canada. Under the deal, pension rights and all other forms of social security will be able to bring citizens of Serbian origin living and working in Canada, as well as Canadians working or working in Serbia. Given that the agreement does not regulate social security rights in the province of Quebec, the conclusion of this agreement is very important for a number of Serbian diaspora living and working in the Canadian province. The agreement with Quebec is more comprehensive than the 2014 Canada Agreement. Besides paying off pensions and collecting insurance, including health insurance. Accordingly, our citizens who go to Quebec, business or tourism, will be able to use certain health services. Finally, but not less important, the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the US government on scientific and technological co-operation. On March 3rd, 2021, Mr Branko Ruzic and US Ambassador Njeg's Excellency, Anthony Godfrey, signed a protocol to amend and supplement the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the US Government on scientific and technological co-operation. The previous agreement was signed in Washington on 23 April 2010. At the invitation of the Minister of Education, Mr Branko Ruzic, I was honored to be present as a descendant of our Michael and to contribute to the signing of this important document that allows for the continued cooperation of our and American scientists. Mihajlo Pupin, who built himself into the foundations of telecommunications by networking the world, was one of the founders of NASA, a professor at Columbia University, honourary consul of Serbia in America. It represents an unbreakable bond between Serbia and America. After all, so is Nikola Tesla. Just like my colleague Marina Ragush said, we have nothing to be ashamed of, we actually have something to be proud of. The agreement will allow both countries' scientists to continue co-operation on new projects, discoveries and research. In addition, there is an opportunity for co-operation between scientific institutions and universities of Serbia and the United States. Exchange of ideas among scientists is one of the priorities for progress in the modern world. In the 21st century, the number of challenges that can only be solved by science and knowledge are increasing. The main objective of this cooperation is to exchange ideas, expertise, technology, information. The agreement allows the implementation of joint research projects, the organisation of joint seminars, scientific conferences, as well as the exchange of researchers, scientists, engineers and technical experts. Good bilateral co-operation between Serbia and America is extremely important for the region's progress and stability. In February this year, 140 years of diplomatic relations between Serbia and the United States were marked. Serbs and Americans have always been on the same side of history. Unfortunately, the discontinuity occurred in the 1990s. Let us not forget that in World War I and World War II, we have forged friendship and alliance, and that is why it is important to make efforts and reset our relationships and turn them towards the traditional friendship of our peoples. The agreement represents an excellent example of good bilateral co-operation between the two countries. One American proverb says: “Little people talk about other people, average people talk about events, and great people talk about ideas. ” I want all of us in this room to talk only about ideas that will contribute to Serbia's progress and to the overall improvement of our citizens' lives. The agreement on the agenda today will certainly contribute to the progress of our country's scientific and technological sphere. When Ambassador Godfrey asked me at the end of the day if I would vote for this agreement when it was on the Parliament's agenda, I replied that I would do so with pleasure. The agreement will be voted on, as well as on the previous two agreements, and the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6151	I would like to thank the mandated representative of the SPS Parliamentary Group. For our children, the MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6152	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's three agreements, one with the East, two with the West. It is an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on plant quarantine and plant protection, on the other hand, on scientific and technical co-operation with the United States and is third with the province of Quebec in the state of Canada. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as Canada is concerned, there is a significant number of Serbs living in it. Especially after the war, many Balkan nations found refuge in Canada, including Serbs. About 200,000 Serbs are estimated to have arrived in Canada during the 20th century, and today, some 100,000 are said to be of Serbian origin, i.e. Serbs. Serbs are particularly important in Quebec because they are a cohesion factor. Let me remind you that there was a referendum in Quebec and that it was a province that almost separated from Canada and a very tight result was. I think the Canadian authorities did well, because a significant number of Serbs, especially those who escaped from the war, have found their new home in Canada. I believe that Canada will return, because Serbs are a state-owned nation, because they guard the state, because they don't like their country falling apart, which was the case of the former Yugoslavia. That's why they were declared the biggest villains in the territory of the former SFRY, not because they were solely guilty, not because they were the worst, but because they were an armature of the former Yugoslavia created by the Balkan wars, the First World War. They created a large state, which was later made by communists, therefore, by a large country by a series of small states that had grown into second-class and third-rate protectorates, which still, regardless of how they separated themselves from Serbia, despite Serbia's victory, allowed them to form on the territory of SFRY their national statesmen, hate and tolerate Serbia. It continues to seek that Serbs, this time in Montenegro, are immersed in another nation and that Serbs and Serbian states will be as little in the Balkans as possible. With that in mind, we're moving on to scientific and technological co-operation with the United States. The best evidence that scientific and technological co-operation can grow, is not only Tesla and Pupin, we also have Mr Vujic who was in the Apollo programme, in NASA etc., the best promoters and political promoters can be precisely from the sphere of science and technology. To mention two Serbian peasants – Mihajlo Pupin and Nikola Tesla, which is proof that something worth choosing is not where to be born. Usually something worth birthing in poor, small environments, and usually something big, some new scientific and technological potential, emerges from these small environments. Unfortunately, this will talk about that third agreement, a Serbian village with an average age of 62 years, will find it difficult in the future to bring up that kind of peasant who will be bright enough, who will have his intelligence, his experience gained by staying in the country in his youth, who will succeed when they go into the great middle to translate into some great achievements, which was also known as Nikola Tesla and Pupin, one from Idvor, the other from Smiljan. So they're both very valuable sizes, and they both have, especially Pupin, and a political connotation. I would especially like and wish, most in the world, that our cooperation with the United States be from the time of Michael Pupin and Woodrow Wilson's co-operation. I'd like to see the American president again, and we were a little moved during the Trampo, so I've been cheering, openly confessing, to Trump to win. Trump won the vote, the other won the count, and they achieved what Stalin was saying – no matter who votes, it's important who counts. In America, Trump had – one man, one voice, and the other, Biden, he had, like, sitting at home in slippers, he had an opportunity – one e-mail, three votes. So, thanks to this, the one I cheered for, Trump, was lost, but there was some progress on the agreement between Mr Tramp and Mr Vukic, who threw the weight on the economy, which I would certainly welcome. I'd like to have a new one between America and Serbia. It is almost incomprehensible that Americans have some of their sympathies and become mentors of some states and states that have formed on the Balkan soil and on the ground of the former Yugoslavia. I'm afraid that they're creating a buffer zone towards Russia and China, given that during Tito they funded Joseph Broz, not to spread communism, but to stop him at their borders and that the interests of the Soviet Union couldn't be poured out, that is, it was cheaper for them to donate Joseph Broz to money, other donor support, to raise economic power, which wasn't dependent on the economy but on those donations, so that he could make an army, because it was far cheaper for them to have a strong army that would resist Stalin and the Soviet Union, but to finance their own army, carriers, bases, etc., which would have been a dozen times more expensive for them. They combined well and usefully and supported this variant where one large country was turned into a series, into six small states, five of which became protectors. Today you have a world miracle that, for example, everyone can separate from Serbia, and that its province can be separated from Serbia. But, behold, the Serbs cannot separate themselves from their province. It's almost an incredible situation. These are the current relationships in the world. I would like the Americans to move it and come to the time of Woodrow Wilson, who appreciated the Serbian people so much and his victims in the Balkan wars and the First World War, that on June 28th or July 1918, he pointed out the Serbian flag, which is the first flag of a foreign state, above the White House, in recognition of a small Balkan but morally great nation that gave 1,264,000 victims to create Yugoslavia. I must also point out that unlike us, Woodrow Wilson and Michaelo Pupin were far smarter. I must say that this Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians would have been far more crippled if it hadn't been for Pupins. I can give you the example of Banat, I can give you an example, I think, Lake Bled, etc., where the Slovenians, thanks to Pupin and Woodrow Wilson, got that, even got half of Koruska, so they wanted everything to be declared by the referendum, so they lost that part by their own fault, not by the fault of Woodrow Wilson, Nikola Pasic and Michael Pupin. Such co-operation was that everything the Serbs wanted and got. But the Serbs didn't want what Woodrow Wilson wanted. Woodrow Wilson wanted all the small nations, a number of small peoples, Serbs, to be spiritually and morally large nations, to win the national state and Woodrow Wilson to advocate that Serbia would get its way out of the sea, but we have defined ourselves, Serbia has defined that after the Balkan wars and the First World War, it creates the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, in a certain way united with the defeated, and probably expected the defeated to be grateful enough not to break the emerging state. So I am concerned, for example, about the European Union, since my party's 1990 programme says that it wants to join the European Community, that we have a single border with European countries, a single market, a single currency, free flow of people, capital, etc., but I am concerned about the European community because those who broke Yugoslavia, who were a community defeated and defeated where they were still supposed to have some kind of gratitude and not break up and raise a gun to those who allowed the Partizan movement, in which most of them were Serbs, to make their national states, and in doing so in those national states almost half of the Serbian peoples, I expected that such peoples and such countries would not raise their guns to their liberator, however, and that happened. That's why I'm worried a little bit about the European Union, but they chose first, what to do with them. They chose Slovenia and Croatia, which are known to want to jump out of every community, as they wanted to jump out of Austria, Austria, so they wanted to jump out of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, so they wanted to jump out of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, lift up the images of Ustasha uprisings, etc. So they wanted to leave the communist Yugoslavia, which was created and which had grown almost into a confederal community where it turned out to be a transition from one independent state of Croatia, at least in terms of Serbs, to another independent state of Croatia and look at what was happening in a territory once called the Independent State of Croatia, which included both Bosnia and Herzegovina, what terrible crimes were committed against Serbs. Nearly a million Serbs no longer live in the areas where they lived in 1991, according to the censuses, you have more Chinese in Sarajevo than Serbs in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it shows that a cruel ethnically cleansed people are accused of ethnic cleansing. Therefore, I believe that restoring some relations with America could one day result in them, and it is difficult to admit their error, admit that they have sinned against the Serb people, who were the only one to blame because he loved the country he created, loved that country and tried to preserve it, was an armature of the former Yugoslavia. That is why the Serbian people were found to be the worst, exclusively guilty, those who committed genocide and ethnic cleansing, although evidence of statistics alone and in Croatia – their data and data in Bosnia and Herzegovina say that a third part of Pavelic's programme was realised in the territory of the former Independent State of Croatia, and that Yugoslavia between the two NDH was a transitional basis for them. For us, it was a country worth working for, standing up for and building it, a country where everyone should have been even. They saw it as a transitional solution to go from one NDH to another NDH, to create their national states and to be pretentious, i.e. to wish that both the territories on which the Serb and Serb people, which they had dispersed, were bought up by federalisation after the war in 1945, thus leaving a large number of Serbs outside the common state they created. Serbia was created by Nikola Pasic and King Alexander, Woodrow Wilson and Michael Pupin, but Woodrow Wilson and Michael Pupin had another solution which we as winners did not take seriously enough, i.e. to go out to sea, to create a Serbian national state. We didn't accept that. We generously agreed with the defeated to be part of a new community called the Kingdom of SHS. That's what I'd like us to learn from history. To go back to co-operation with Russia, and to say again that this plant protection, plant quarantine, is a chance, but that the control of the Russian Federation is extremely severe, extremely correct, but in doing so, it is more rigorous than that in the European Union, that their conditions should be closely monitored, or that we should not come into a position to endanger, significant quantities of exports of leaders and vegetables, because our mistake would be even greater because they would endanger themselves, their farms, their families, and therefore we should look after these wholesalers, shoppers and buyers so as not to repack something from Greece or European countries, Poland, Germany, etc. Apples, there needs to be extremely controlled every load, not to allow any mixing to endanger the economic progress of such goods, especially in agriculture, because we have invested a lot of incentives in new apple plantings. I'd advise our farmers to try to raise larger surfaces for now under pears, because they're more expensive. The stork is similar to the fruit of apples, a little harder to maintain and cherish, but it would be good to try, because Russia raises its apple orchards. At some point, as with wheat, Russia can either become an exporter or it can meet its apple needs. That is why it should be taken into account in agricultural policy, that we pay a little attention and grow pears, because no pear that is harvested in Serbia in the freezers is welcome New Year's Eve, all of which are sold before the new year, because demand is great and production in Serbia is not sure that it meets our needs. The dilemma of Russia, China, Europe does not exist for me. The current policy is that we want to be good to each other. We want friends to stay friends, and we want to try to make less opponents than the enemy less enemies, and we want some of them to move on to our side. I'll explain it to you plastically because there are ultra nationalists. These are the voluntary donors of other people's blood, which would lead the rest of an unscheduled people into adventure, I must warn them that they are exclusive, and they are Euro-loving both in one sense and towards the European Union and towards the euro, so I must warn both of them that we must play with each other. I'll set an example, raspberries and apples. For example, 95% of the apples produced in Serbia buy the Russian Federation, or the customs union, or what they call Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus, and 95% of the raspberries and most blueberries buy the European Union. Serbian peasants know it would be wrong to give up raspberries or apples. If you give up one, lose the other, lose the money, lose the economic security. I see the economic strength of a country, not by the amount of gold and diamonds, silver, precious metals, etc. which the country owns, by the amount of food and drinking water that the country produces or can produce, and that is some winning combination to be played on. Anyone who loves the smell of bread should also respect farmers who have produced this bread and the incentives of subsidies should be as high as possible, and once we enter the EU, they will be three times as big as they are so far. That is why it is my desire because of the common European agricultural policy to join the EU as soon as possible. In the end, let me say that we are missing Serbian Serbian fools, to make further agreements. While everyone was against us, we were against ourselves, better to say, we were, we fought against ourselves and between ourselves, and in such a battle we always lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6153	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Dear People's MPs, we have been informed by RTS that today, May 5th, they will not be able to follow the meeting of the Assembly directly at the Second RTS Programme due to previously agreed obligations to transfer the handball game. A recording of part of the session that will not be broadcast directly will be broadcast in the evening. Since there are no more authorised representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups reported, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6154	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Agreements between states that are mutually beneficial are always good news for us MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, especially those concerning exchange of ideas, exchanges of scientific goods, such as this between the United States and the Republic of Serbia. We believe that it is of paramount importance and that it continues with everything that has been used in the past many cases both for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the citizens of the United States, especially for people who are dealing with science and especially for people who draw these resources to build on their own knowledge, share experiences and improve the science they are working on. We are very happy that this Agreement also allows for the continued co-operation that the International University of Novi Pazar has for years with certain representatives of the United States and the embassy regarding a lecturer who has been present for six years as a national speaker at our University and whose knowledge of original speech is used by students of our University. We are also happy because this opens up opportunities for all the treasures that we as a people or as the peoples of the Balkans to inherit, which ended in the United States, among other things, as in many other countries, and we can learn more about ourselves through what was once collected and what was stored in various archives as such today. Here, first of all, I am referring to the great legacy of the scientific expedition of the Harvard space of Milman Pari, Albert Lord in the first half of the 20th century in the former Yugoslavia which recorded between 300,000 and half million verses in the space of Novopazar Sandzak... singers, among other things, then exposed the big dilemma of the Homer issue based on the epics, Avda Medjedovic, i.e. The authors of Homer's Iliada and Odyssey. So there are many more great scientific achievements or treasures, sources of zero categories, stored in the United States, and these agreements open up the possibility for researchers from our space to take advantage of that opportunity, and that, in fact, we are learning about ourselves, and not that, as Cemil Sijarić said, someone from America comes to us and says: here, you have Homer in the White Field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6155	Thank you. The word is made by MP Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6156	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, above all, I would like to send full support to JS President Dragan Markovic Palma in order to expose and expose false accusations and false plantings by part of the opposition, from which we cannot hear their programme, their good idea and some good solution, but only lies and bribery. We want this media performance of Marinika Tepic to be given to some court epilogue as soon as possible, where all their plantings and all their lies will be dismantled. As far as these three agreements are concerned today, the JS parliamentary group will support the agreements in the voting day, and they are, of course, in the interest of our country. Since the province of Quebec has a different pension system compared to the state of Canada, this agreement is necessary for the purpose of comprehensive insurance protection. Otherwise, the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Canada has existed since 2014, but the agreement did not cover health insurance. The agreement with the province of Quebec regulates the exercise of pension-inhabitation rights, as well as rights based on labour injuries, occupational diseases and health insurance. With this agreement, our people, or our countrymen who live and work in the province of Quebec, will have the opportunity to regulate the internship and exercise the right to PIO, to health care during treatment in Serbia or Quebec. There is an opportunity for our people working in Canada to regulate the issues of connecting the internships for the years for which they have been paid contributions, as well as to use certain health services. The agreement also provides for a programme for the health care of students while staying in Quebec or at studies in Serbia, which the Canada-based convention did not foresee. In any case, this is a very important agreement for our people who have been inhabited in this Canadian province for decades. The protocol on continuing scientific and technological co-operation between Serbia and the United States is a significant document for us and will allow for the continued co-operation of our scientists and American scientists. Of course, this type of co-operation is also a significant segment in improving our bilateral relations. The US side has launched this protocol with the intention to strengthen and upgrade co-operation in all fields of science and technology, especially in the field of intellectual property. The protocol will allow scientists from Serbia and the United States to continue working together on projects, discoveries, research, as well as additional space for the co-operation of our scientific institutions and universities. The objective of the Agreement with the Government of the Russian Federation is to develop bilateral co-operation in the area of plant quarantine plant protection. There is a need to protect the territory of our countries against the introduction and spread of quarantine and other dangerous harmful organisms, as well as to ensure the coordination of national phytosanitary measures. Until now, there have been procedures for imports of food products, but they have often not been respected, i.e. there have been various abuses. Serbia with Russia for over 20 years has signed a Free Trade Agreement, which stipulates that goods that can be proven to be originating in Serbia do not pay customs when goods are intended for the Russian market, unless they are excluded from the free trade regime. Import control in Russia has become very rigorous and set high standards after EU sanctions were imposed. The bottom line is that any product that is subject to plant quarantine, imported on the territory of our countries, or in transit crossing the territory of our countries, must also be accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate or re-export certificate. The certificate shall be issued by the competent authorities of the exporting country in accordance with international conventions confirming that quarantine harmful organisms are not present in the quarantined product. We will be part of a unique electronic delivery system and everything that is being reviewed phytosanitaryly in Serbia will be the same as if it had been examined by a Russian professional service. Today, around 130 companies are exported from Serbia's fruit to the Russian Federation, and about 20 companies' vegetables and therefore the agreement is very important for our country. Once again, the parliamentary group in the voting day will support these mentioned agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6157	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Joseph Broz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6158	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, has proved to be important for centuries to cultivate good and friendly relations with both neighbours and the overseas countries. The modern world in which we live, the development of technology, the growing number of migrations around the world has contributed to a growing number of areas being regulated by international agreements, bilateral and multilateral. The countries most often regulate the issue of political, economic, cultural, scientific and technological co-operation, as well as the issue of social security. As an MEP, I would like to point out the importance of respect for the social rights and social security of each individual and every citizen, both those living in Serbia and those numerous in the Serbian diaspora around the world. International social insurance contracts, i.e. social security contracts, allow for the harmonised application of national laws of the Contracting State in the area of social security guaranteeing equal treatment of citizens, i.e. the insurance of both Contracting States under national law. Ensuring the preservation of acquired rights, the payment of the grant shall be guaranteed in the event of a change in residence. Our country concluded agreements with 30 countries, relating to social security, such as Russia, Greece, Austria, Switzerland, Canada, etc. The social security agreement between Serbia and Canada came into force in 2014. Under the agreement, pension rights and other forms of social security will allow citizens of Serbian origin who live and work in Canada, or have already done so, as have Canadians who have worked or worked in Serbia. This agreement regulates the rights of pensioners in both countries, as well as those in case of work injury and occupational illness. The agreement does not refer to the Canadian province of Quebec, where a number of Serbian diaspora and a large number of those who are coming to the order for retirement in the coming years are present. The deal with Quebec is more comprehensive than the one with Canada. In addition to paying out pensions and collecting insurance, coverage and health insurance, so that our citizens who go to Quebec can use certain health services. In addition to taking care of our oldest citizens, it's very important that we think of generations that are just coming. We're working to provide them with new opportunities. Serbia is a country of rich history, cultural and spiritual heritage. We're proud of our world-renowned scientists and researchers, like Nikola Tesla and Mikhail Pupin. With the U.S., we've already concluded an agreement on scientific and technological co-operation, and this protocol continues. Both countries will benefit from this agreement. Scientists will be able to work together on numerous projects and research. Good bilateral relations between Serbia and the United States are important for the stability of our entire region, and co-operation in science and technology is valuable for generations to come. The agreement with the Russian Federation is very important so that we will no longer be in a situation where the goods are returned to us because of poor phytopathological conditions. The SPS parliamentary group supports co-operation with other countries, especially since our citizens will benefit from confirming these agreements. In voting day, we will support all agreements that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6159	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I am going to talk about a law confirming the Amending Protocol and supplementing the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States on scientific and technological co-operation. This is, by the way, as the minister himself said, the addition of a valid contract that has been in force for 10 years, and of course, after the vote, i.e. The ratifications, here in parliament, which we are going to do tomorrow, will be valid for the next 10 years but, let's say, it's complemented, it's respected, with a very important statement, which starts with us starting to be more and more important, which is regulation of intellectual property issues. This is a very important issue in the United States, in the European Union, in all modern democracies, it is becoming more and more important, of course, everywhere in the world, because somehow so far we, not just until a few years ago, until the coming of the government, Alexander Vukic was certainly not so concerned about it, but later, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, through digitisation and the rest, is the introduction of the rights that we are working in Serbia. There's one thing that's of particular importance. In fact, somehow earlier, we took care of the rights of those who print books, and we did not take much care of the rights of those who write those same books. Well, at the same time, by developing technology, by making software and everything else we need, and now and in everyday life, for all of us, for every one of us, for our children and for the future, but of course for what awaits us all. The thing is, we have to protect people who create intellectual property and that those who are smart, who know how to make software, who know how to write a book that we all benefit from later, can have a decent, nice, normal life, not always risk whether... And now we have a pandemic case, and I'm sure that the minister has also met through the crisis headquarters, where many artists and many people who were independent have found themselves in trouble, the question is, how can we, let's say, regulate their status, how can we help them, because they have lost their jobs, without income, and, unfortunately, as a society, we haven't prepared ourselves in time for all these things, we didn't expect them, but thank God, the effective Government of the Republic of Serbia and solves these problems as well as possible in the given situation. This is how scientific patents and projects are protected from theft, first of all, but it also protects material gain, as I said, by the creator. Cybercrime is something that develops in the world and is increasingly present and present. In this same U.S., we have 10,000 cases on a daily basis, and many are not lagging behind, believe me, and China, because it's technologically and particularly in information technologies increasingly developed and developed, 10,000 criminal cases a day, attempted identity theft, copying your data on the Internet, breaking into bank accounts, social numbers, etc. It's done everywhere in the world, more and more, and we're more developed, the more we use these technologies... Let's say, for example, I'm only paying online accounts now, so with a mobile phone and most people, these are bigger and bigger numbers, I've even heard from some bankers that they think that in the next 10-15 years even those branches on the streets won't even exist, there won't be any need for them, because people are going to do everything, and even online credit applications, over the phone, over a laptop, etc. The future is the development of technology. It's something that goes faster than ever. We've been under sanctions for almost 10 years because of the bad policy we've had in this country and we've missed an entire industrial revolution and we've been struggling ever since. Today and beyond, we must never allow ourselves to do so, and thank God today is not the situation. Information technologies are no longer something that can be called the future, they are the present, they are now among us, but smart technologies or smart technologies are the future. The United Nations predicts that by 2050 70% of existing occupations will disappear. We've got people to come up with new occupations. People will have to have new jobs to do and live on. It's topic number one in the world, so only then number two is the topic of global pollution, the environment. The number one theme in the world is smart technology and future, robotics, all that's waiting for us in the next period. Again, I say thank God, so Serbia is somehow more ready for it now than it was in some earlier times. Serbia, according to some data, is 4th in Europe, 10th in the world by the number of digital workers. We're working things out now. Last week, we passed this law that solves the Frillers issue. So, we need to keep these people, and it's better to solve this issue and that they pay taxes here than elsewhere, even though our tax system hasn't recognized them for a long time as someone who works and does business in Serbia, and they've been there, among us, and they've worked. I say again, it's a matter of technology. We have the capacity. Why is this agreement important? Because to the greatest extent, our capacity can be exploited and even increased by the possibilities and potentials of co-operation with the United States. Telling me, thinking, whatever you think, their technology is the most advanced, and that's why we need this cooperation. We talk about Tesla, we talk about Pupin. Without their scientific papers, NASA wouldn't exist either. A few days ago, NASA practically formed the first station on Mars. On Mars, the Earth is operated by a helicopter flying there. Without Tesla and Pupino, that would never be possible. It would never be possible, but without another scientist – Milutin Milankovic, who was the first in the world, back in 1915, published scientific papers on climate on Mars. We're tied up. We have a co-operation that is centuries old, which has always been great, which has been interrupted at some point, but I advocate to reset and, for years I've been talking about it, to bring you back to ours, as my colleague Pupin said, to reset these relationships, I often use that term, and to bring them back to what we used to be. That's the most important thing for Serbia. We also saw about vaccines and vaccinations. I may be wrong, but the doctor will correct me if I'm wrong, as far as I know, over 97% is the effectiveness of the phaser vaccine. So I said right, 97%. That means you don't raise your immune system after receiving that vaccine a statistical error, so that it doesn't happen to you. So, at the level of a statistical error, it's that you don't happen to have an immune system and protect yourself from that virus, and when you receive the Faiser vaccine. That doesn't mean the Americans were scientists who worked. Who knows who they are, maybe they were some from Vietnam on that science team, maybe there were Serbs, I don't know? Somehow, in America, these science teams always work best. After all, both Tesla and Pupin and Milankovic did it in America. We can say again that we like it or we don't like it, but it's a fact, it's a living thing, it's something that's happening to us, and it's something that we all live in the world. So that's what we all live with. The most famous list of universities, the professor will confirm whether or not I said it correctly, is the Shanghai list of the best rated universities in the world. Out of the top ten, eight are in America, and two are in the UK, and that's a list of universities in Shanghai, not Washington. That's why this agreement is of great importance, and why? Not that we here would say that Americans are the best, but that we would benefit the most from this collaboration. We, like Serbia, our country and our youth, to keep what we're talking about, to work here, to have big wages here. Thanks to such agreements, we have companies, such as the NCR in Serbia, which employs two thousand people, and where the lowest salary is one thousand euros. We are talking about how companies are opening up in our municipalities and we are happy about it and thank President Vukic for his energy on vaccines and on investments we have, but we need even more investment like this, where there will be very high salaries for employees, and we can only make progress in science and technology. New technologies bring new jobs, bring an increasing number of educated people and bring more economic growth. That's why we need such companies, and we need these contracts to exploit our potential and move on. I hope that we will have as many agreements as possible in the future, and I hope that this agreement, with smart foreign policy, will lead to us taking advantage of the potential that Serbia has and that we are making economic progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6161	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6162	Dear Presidents, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, honourable ministers, respected ministers, we have very important agreements before us that prove that our state summit leads one wise policy and the biggest critics of this government and the president of the state when it comes to foreign policy cannot find any objection. I think we as parliament are making a major contribution by supporting the adoption of these agreements. The adoption of these agreements proves the respect our country has in the world, because when you sign one agreement, it's not proof that only you want to cooperate with someone, it's proof that others want to cooperate with you. It is a very rare situation for a country in the world to sign an agreement in one day with two perhaps the world's largest forces, such as the United States and Russia. As for the US Agreement on Scientific and Technical Cooperation, I am particularly looking forward to it. First, because you don't have to say what the United States means. In fact, I want our children, our scientists, our workers to travel and learn about what the United States is. It's a market and capital and science, where they play and act really best. If you want to be the best, you have to go and see how their industry, the IT industry, works, how the Silicon Valley works, how their economic giants function. If we want to make our country strong, we have to learn from the best, and the United States, they certainly are. The moment we have the exchange of people and we have the exchange of ideas, we'll get to know each other better and our relationships will get better. At first moment, it should be an honest friendship, and in the future, of course, it should be an alliance. As far as the Agreement with the Russian Federation is concerned, what's the problem, and that's something I do very closely care about is re-exporting our companies. So many murky hunters tried to use EU sanctions against the Russian Federation and not to place our products, to place our meat, to place our products and fruit and vegetables, but to import, to make re-export. We also had major problems with the re-export of meat and meat processing and the re-export of fruit. Since I come from one part of the fruit business, the Prepolje, the Sanjak municipalities, a lot of people deal in raspberries. It's a big market that's in turn, and it offers a great opportunity for our companies. In voting day, we will certainly support all three agreements. As for the deal with Quebec, it's an agreement that solves basic human problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6163	Thank you, Mr. Tandir. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6164	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, today we have three very important agreements on the agenda with three states, the Russian Federation, the United States and the government of Quebec. Serbia is on a European path today, but it is not an obstacle to maintaining our traditionally close relations with the Russians. Russia today is one of Serbia's most important strategic partners. An eternal friend firmly supports our country's policy and is our ally in international organisations. The Russian Federation provides strong and consistent support for the preservation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, and we are immeasurably grateful to them. We are also grateful to all other countries that support us and have not recognised unilaterally declared independence so-called. "Kosovo", as well as countries that have withdrawn recognition of the state's independence. Thanks to the brave and wise policy of our state leadership, particularly President Alexander Vukic, the government and the foreign ministry, led by Ivica Dacic, 19 states withdrew their recognition. We're working with the Russian Federation in a number of areas. We have a lot of sealed and confirmed agreements. Russia is an increasingly significant investor in the Serbian economy, with development in the scientific and technological and innovation areas. Cultural co-operation is also very intense. Cultural and artistic events are held regularly. It is a very important role of the Russian Centre for Science and Culture, which exists for 85 years in our country. We owe Russia great gratitude for all the selfless help in medical equipment and, above all, the vaccines they've been giving us since the start of the pandemic. One of the best news is that in April we started producing the Russian vaccine Sputnik V in Torlak and thus further strengthened our ties with the brotherly state of Russia and made this a serious step into the future. I would also like to note the progress of economic co-operation between Serbia and Russia, the importance of infrastructure projects and projects in the field of energy. All these projects will contribute to our country's economic progress and to a better and better life for our citizens. There is a free trade regime between Serbia and Russia, which contributes to the growth of each other's trades. The agreement on the agenda today also concerns Serbia-Russia's co-operation in the area of plant protection and plant quarantine. Plant protection is part of agricultural production and makes a very significant segment in increasing the yield and quality of plants and its products. Accordingly, the importance of plant health is highlighted. One measure in preventing the spread of harmful organisms is plant quarantine, which as a measure exists throughout the world. Plant quarantine can be internal and external to which more attention and importance are given. The quality of the consignment imported into the country is often not known, and the reason for the introduction of the plant quarantine measure is justified, because in this way the country defends itself against the introduction of harmful organisms that can cause far-reaching negative consequences throughout agricultural production. For example, corn gold was introduced into Yugoslavia from the United States and it first appeared in the area of the airport, so that in the next few years it would be spread not only in our country, but also in several neighbouring countries and thus cause great damage to corn crops. For these reasons, it is very important to adopt this Agreement and thus protect farmers from imports of potentially harmful products. The SPS parliamentary group will support all three agreements on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6165	Thank you, Mr. Stevic. The word is Vladica Maricic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6166	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear Ministers with an associate, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, since the start of this parliamentary term on August 3rd 2020, we had on the agenda almost equal to the number of reform laws, i.e. amendments and additions to existing laws, as well as international agreements that the Republic of Serbia on a bilateral basis regulates certain areas of people's lives and the functioning of the economy, which shows that the Republic of Serbia is a credible partner to all international co-workers. There was an agreement with leading world powers such as the United States, Russia, China, with leading EU countries such as Germany, France, many agreements with developing countries. These are particularly dear and important countries because most of them were once in the Unclassified Movement, and almost all of them did not recognise the false state of "Kosovo" and support the international law and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Today we have confirmation of three international agreements with the United States, with the Russian Federation and with Quebec province in Canada. The social security agreement with the province of Quebec in Canada continues with the same agreement that the Republic of Serbia already has with Canada, but since Quebec has exclusive competences in the area of social security and the right to conclude international agreements in the area, our agreement with Canada, which is not a federal state, does not apply to our citizens living in the province of Quebec, so the government of the Republic of Serbia entered into the negotiation process with the province of Quebec and concluded an agreement that we are deciding on today. With this agreement we complete the entire territory of Canada for our citizens, for social security and social security rights, both in Quebec and in all other provinces to which our 2014 agreement with Canada relates. The agreement concerns pension and disability insurance rights, sickness and professional injury rights and health care and health insurance rights. We see that these are the rights that are in the most difficult relationship with work and work relations, so it is clear to all that the much greater benefits of this agreement will come from the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because there are many more of our citizens who are working or have been at work in Canada than Canadian citizens in Serbia. When we talk about pension and disability protection rights, it is important to note that this agreement is based on two principles. The first principle is the principle of non-redulgation, the second principle of the principle of addition. The principle of non-reduction means that the amount of pensions, i.e. payments recognised by one co-contractor, cannot be reduced to citizens living on the territory of the other side of the Contracting Party. This is particularly important for all those who spent their working life in Canada, or Quebec, and who want to use it in the Republic of Serbia. The amount of the pension will not be reduced thanks to this agreement, and there are known trends in certain Western countries, where there was once a large number of foreign workers, that because of some problems with the pension fund, they want to reduce the amount of pensions, even half of those who do not use pension in the country, but in their home country. The principle of collection means that those insurance undertakings that do not have sufficient insurance training under the rules of one Contracting Party may exercise pension and disability insurance rights by collecting periods, i.e. the insurance standings they have achieved in both parties' Contracting Parties. This is particularly important for all of our citizens who want to spend a few years in Canada, and later the working age continues in the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about health care and health insurance rights, it is important to note that it applies to workers other than our students and researchers who live in Quebec. As far as the second agreement is concerned, it is an agreement on scientific and technological co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the United States. We know that the United States is the world's leading power in science and technological development. All leading scientific institutes are on the other side of the Atlantic. The largest number of Nobel laureates are citizens of the United States and work in the United States and the largest budgets and for science and research are those who have their scientific institutes. This agreement that the Republic of Serbia concludes with the United States allows our scientists and researchers to access US institutes and participate in projects funded by the US government and US corporations. This agreement regulates intellectual property rights. We know that those who invest in research and science are very important property over all those patents that come from these scientific research. On the other hand, it is important for scientists to have their intellectual property rights governed by one of these bilateral agreements. The third agreement, an agreement with the Russian Federation, concerns co-operation in the field of plant protection and plant quarantine. We know that perhaps the overall production of apples in Serbia can satisfy only Sunday needs of Moscow or some region in Russia. We are all talking about the need for Serbia's fruit and vegetable exporters to exploit the geopolitical situation related to sanctions against Russia that have introduced many Western countries, which Serbia has not introduced and will not introduce and place more fruit and vegetables from Serbia. This agreement is exactly what makes it possible. The state recognized that our exporters may have the biggest problem in making these administrative procedures. She entered the negotiation process and concluded a bilateral agreement with the Russian Federation, which is a legal framework for co-operation in the field of plant protection and plant quarantine. Now our farmers, our agrobusiness companies, and meet the standards should enter the scene because we know that the Russian market is very demanding and that the goods need to be certified and met the relevant standards required by the Russian market. The Chamber of Commerce, which has a good department for Russia and in general Eastern Europe, can also help them greatly. As well as my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic - I will support all three international agreements for our children in the voting day, as we have supported earlier agreements concluded with many countries in the world. Serbia is a credible partner for all countries from both the east and the west, a country with which it is happy to enter into negotiations from various areas of the economy and the lives of citizens and with which international agreements are concluded. This is because Serbia is a state in which political stability, a state in which fiscal stability and states rule with good economic growth and good economic characteristics. All this began in 2014 with reforms initiated by the then prime minister, and now President Aleksandar Vukic. We restored our economy, filled the state register and became a credible partner to everyone in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6167	Thank you, Mr. Maricic. The word is Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6168	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States is a very important and very important agreement because it is actually a vision of a country where it would like to be in one 20, 30 years. That's exactly why I'm gonna base my speech on this agreement. Investment in science and technology is an investment in the future. The development of science draws a safe path towards prosperity and progress and represents actually a good policymaking. Young talented scientists, visionaries must be among our best ambassadors in the world. What would certainly be important is to invest in knowledge, education because it is a capital that will surely return multiple times. It is also important that as a state, we protect this investment and not allow it to be completely lost. Scientists must be respected, protected, free to develop their potentials, and also proud of the country that invests in them. The town of Kragujevac recognized the importance of investment in science by signing a contract to build an institution of special scientific and technological importance, building a centre of excellence. The centre is defined as a priority site of research areas, biomedicines for molecular and cell research, a place to store stem cells and for their research and use in the treatment of various diseases, but also as a place for the educational process. Kragujevac biomedicalists, young scientists would have room for work and professional training, and patients from all over Serbia would be a place to store stem cells that would be used for serious therapy and treatment of many diseases, as well as gene therapy. We are witnessing, unfortunately, that the life of sick children depends on finance, because gene therapy and medications are strictly expensive. For all of this, the center of excellence would represent a great treasure of the state, and its existence is a matter of national importance and national interest. So, Mr. Ruzic, as Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, I would ask you this way to, in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if you can, speed up, or influence the process of building, the rapid construction of the centre, because about 32% of the plan has been built so far. The continuation of the work, which is good, has been announced, but unfortunately it does not go at the right speed. I'm sure you're also aware of the importance of such a scientific and technological centre as an important investment and an important place for the whole country, as much as it would strengthen it in terms of its place on the list of serious countries that are seriously investing in scientific and technological development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6169	Thank you, Mrs. Veljovic. The word is Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6170	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, Madam Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have three sets of important agreements before us with the help of further improving important segments for the further development of our country and our economy. First of all, I will turn to an agreement with the United States regarding scientific co-operation. Inche, as you know, Serbia is a country that is a wasteland of young talent. We have a large number of young scientists, innovators we can be proud of. In the previous period, the Republic of Serbia invested significant funds to improve their working conditions and stay in Serbia and that their scientific achievements can be presented abroad. This agreement itself will be a continuation of something that began 10 years ago, with certain segments that will contribute to further intensity of improving co-operation itself. What is very important is that this co-operation will be mutual for reasons why we as a state have something to be proud of when it comes to the development of science, when it comes to the development of young talents. First of all, I am talking about a research station called Petnica, which is otherwise unique in this part of the world, in which a large number of young high school students, but also students who are in the role of mentors, also have opportunities to do scientific work. Thanks to such agreements, such a station, as well as many others to be built in Serbia that will deal with certain fields of science, will allow young people to have opportunities to start their first steps in science with people who are both experienced and excellent in that segment. What is more important to note is that as a state, we have also invested a lot of resources in the development of start-up innovation generators, in the development of centres where young people can develop ideas that can later be translated into certain businesses. I can proudly say that Kruševac is also one of the cities where such an innovation generator is created, in which young talented people can develop their business and achieve successful co-operation with numerous foreign companies where they make significant benefits when it comes to their own development, the development of their company, but can also contribute to a significant segment when it comes to the development of innovation and science itself. Co-operation with Russia is very important because of the further development of agriculture itself. We know that agriculture is one of the significant potentials that our Republic and how it has, which we need to use and certainly that this agreement will allow this co-operation and export of our products to be significantly better, but with respect to the measures and standards that are prescribed to ensure the quality of production itself. What is very important when it comes to an agreement relating to the government of Quebec, that we will also provide social protection for our people, given that the distinguished minister noted, that they as a special area in Canada have their own regulations and that this is how we round up this very important segment for our citizens' stay in Canada. Otherwise, we can see that as a state, we have achieved significant and successful results at this time of crisis. We have had the opportunity to hear from our President Alexander Vukic, who are the results that we have achieved, that we are actually fighting things when it comes to the development of our economy and other segments, and how we surpassed what is planned and why and how we can be optimistic about the realisation of the plan, which is that surely our real GDP growth will be 6%, that in any case we will realise a large number of investments. Never in Serbia's history has it happened that you have eight highways that are either being built at the same time. Just yesterday, when I was coming to Belgrade and to the assembly session, I had the opportunity to see how far this Moravia Corridor progresses and how hard people are really working to bring that part of Serbia together and to create additional new conditions for the development of investments, for the development of industrial zones. It is something that I and how proud I am, which is what my fellow Members of the people are proud of, because it is a policy that the SNS and our President Aleksandar Vukic are also leading. It is precisely thanks to such investments, thanks to the investments that the state directs, thanks to the help not only to the citizens, but also to the economies that are now being realised, and how we will manage to overcome this period of crisis and to achieve everything we have planned and to continue to be champions when it comes to attracting foreign direct investment, but also when it comes to international co-operation. What I would also take advantage of is the opportunity to invite citizens of the Republic of Serbia to take advantage of their right when it comes to vaccination, because only with the help of vaccination can we provide this necessary collective immunity in order to slowly bring our lives back to normal, so that we can again enjoy what we did before the crown itself appears. The state has done everything it takes. As we can see, every day new vaccination checkpoints are opened in Serbia's cities, and we have enough vaccines that are provided. The Torlak Institute has started producing Sputnik-V vaccines, it is also preparing for the construction of a factory where Sinofarm's vaccine will be produced, we have two coves of hospitals that have been built, the third one started in Novi Sad, which will also be built in record time, provided all necessary medications. So, what the Republic of Serbia has arranged is something that a small number of countries have managed to do in this period of crisis, to ensure all necessary conditions for the health of citizens to be protected, to protect our economy so that it can function successfully, so that it can continue to be competitive in the world. In the voting day, we will certainly be pleased to support these agreements and all other agreements that are in the interest of the development of our country and those, to say, the need of our citizens and how these agreements are for the benefit of farmers and our young scientists, as well as people who work abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6171	I thank Mr. Tomic. The word is Ivana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6172	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, we are today talking about three draft laws, namely the confirmation of the Treaty or the Agreement signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the one hand and on the other hand with the Government of Quebec, when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Social Security with the Government of the United States, as regards the validation of the Protocol for the Amendment and Completion of the Agreement relating to scientific and technological co-operation and with the Government of the Russian Federation when it comes to the Agreement on Co-operation in the field of plant quarantine and plant protection. As regards the Treaty with the Government of Quebec, which concerns social security, it is important to point out that the contract provides for the exercise of pension and disability insurance rights, health insurance and health care, as well as protection in the event of injury to work or in case of occupational illness. Otherwise, what you have been talking about here this morning, the Republic of Serbia is applying these agreements with 31 countries, most of which are EU members, and in the last few years agreements have been concluded with the Republic of Greece, with the Russian Federation, with China, and the plan is that we have agreements with Tunisia, Azerbaijan, etc. As for the Protocol between Serbia and the United States, it is possible not only to continue, but also to improve and intensify co-operation between the Serbian and US sides when it comes to scientific and technological areas, and that is for a period of 10 years. Also, this is important for improving overall bilateral relations in all fields of science and technology. As regards the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in Plant Quarantine and Plant Protection, it is important to note that the signed agreement will contribute to facilitating procedures and reducing barriers to exports from the Republic of Serbia to the Russian Federation market, particularly fruits, vegetables, seed and fruit material, as well as other plant products subject to a phytosanitary review. I would like to point out immediately that when it comes to any area of socially responsible life, when it comes to co-operation with Serbia, today it is viewed from another angle, today Serbia, unlike the former, respected, economically strong and reliable partner, thanks, first of all, to President Aleksandr Vukic, whose international reputation is national good. We have made sure of that many times, and we are convinced especially now that some more developed countries are struggling with the attack of the coronary virus pandemic and the acquisition of vaccines, and that Serbia is doing so. It is very important that I point out today when we talk about proposals for legislation that are on the agenda and everything we talked about in the previous period, we really confirm that we are fighting intensively on two fronts. The first is certainly the preservation of the lives and health of our citizens, strengthening the health system, and the second is strengthening our economy, is the continuity of development and progress in all areas of social life, is raising the standard of living and is the continuation or beginning of the realization of capital projects. I must stress that, despite the pandemic of the Crown of the Virus, and thanks above all to the efforts and struggles of President Aleksandr Vukic, thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the responsible leadership that implements the SNS programme, we are able to realise and what is presented by Plan Serbia 2020/25, which will only in the years ahead and how to change the way our citizens live. Last year, we had two aid packages for businesses and citizens, in April and September. The value of these packages is 704 billion dinars. These days we're talking about a third aid package, worth 257 billion dinars. So, from April of last year to today, the state of Serbia has allocated eight billion euros to help each sector of the economy, to help every citizen. We adopted a budget rebalancing here in the Assembly two weeks ago, where we have defined the funds for these purposes, but we have also defined the means to continue the realization of what is presented in the five-year plan for Serbia 2020/25, which is worth 14 billion euros, which is for investing in road, rail infrastructure, for municipal infrastructure. The citizens see it. Citizens see roads being built, railways being built, new and renewed schools seen hospitals, new factories, new jobs. We are working intensively to strengthen our health system. The state is discharging huge funds for the purchase of drugs, medical equipment, vaccines. Last week, construction of another homing hospital in Novi Sad began. Last year we built two, in Batajnica and Kruševec. In just four months, these two hospitals were built. The plan is for this one, whose construction started last week, to be completed by September 1st. Such a scenario could only be imagined in the most developed countries, but today it is also possible in Serbia to build a hospital in four months. Serbia is really successfully fighting and standing firmly on its feet, unlike many countries that have failed to cope with the pandemic of the coronary virus, where there are many closed factories, where many people are out of work. Unfortunately, it is as bad a scenario as could be seen in Serbia, but not because of some natural disaster or some pandemic, but because of the irresponsible government of the former regime. I mean here especially the level of unemployment and the closed factories. Then, those who brought Serbia to ruin, Dragan Gilas and his experts, comment that we are in debt with expensive loans, criticise these aid packages, comment in a negative sense on the construction of hospitals and any act adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They criticise everything President Aleksandar Vukic does, without giving any meaningful argument. It's probably just a flaw to what Alexander Wolfie does about what he did. They gave themselves the right to comment, those whom Serbian citizens remember for their non-domestic and arrogant behaviour, and whose only strategies and development plans were that they would garner as much money as possible for their needs. Those who took expensive loans during election campaigns to pay the citizens of Serbia pensions and salaries. Gilas and his crew, they arranged some jobs, they started them, they built them up, and then they distributed money around the world. I am sure that Serbian citizens expect a consistent application of the Property Origin Act, especially given that there is a typical example, that there is a man who can't prove the origin of his property, that there is a man who can't answer the question of journalists for over a month from where he came from and why he's been deployed around the world. He admitted to being rich during his time in power, but did not answer the question of how justice to the tax administration, how justice to the Anti-Corruption Agency, why money is around the world and not in Serbia, and how it came to that money. He didn't answer. He did not respond how he gained so much capital at a time when Serbia was economically devastated, during the time when robbery privatisations were conducted and when hundreds of thousands of people were out of work. Then, at the very least, it is embarrassing that Dragan Gilas and his employees at the company "Multicom", who were his associates while he was in power, who are his political speakers today, to comment on what you, ministers, what we MPs are doing, what President Aleksandar Vukic is doing. They thus want only to harm Serbia's reputation. It's what they do with imaginary affairs, bringing out lies, humiliating everything here that's been done. They want to violate our country's reputation and make it impossible to preserve the hard-earned reputation of a fiscally stable country. That doesn't work for them. President Aleksandar Vukic recently also held a meeting with IMF representatives and Serbia has been assessed as a serious state, as an economically strong state, which successfully manages the crisis and which manages to realise the most significant projects. So, our country, headed by President Alexander Vukic, is very much responding to all the challenges caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, fighting for the health of our fellow citizens and for strengthening our economy. We're fighting for a six-and-even-seven-percent growth, which is very important to us. We care about growth, in order to have new investments, to have more money in the budget, to have more investment in infrastructure. We need more factories, more new jobs, then an increase in wages and pensions for the best living standard of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6173	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. The word is Svetlana Milijac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6174	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Honored ministers, Kisic Tepavcevic and Ruzic with co-worker, ladies and gentlemen MPs, international social security contracts as so-called elements of co-ordination enables the application of national legislation by countries Parties to the social security agreement. This guarantees equal treatment of citizens, i.e. insurance of both Contracting States, in accordance with national legislation, for applicable legislation, which would mean rules on the basis of which it can be established in a certain situation whether national laws of one or other Contracting State are applied, provide for the preservation of acquired rights and guarantee the transfer, i.e. the payment of the payment if the residence of insurance undertakings from one country to another country is changed. In the world, the first social security agreement was signed in 1827 between France and the Grand Duchy of Parma. Serbia today has a signed agreement with 31 countries of the world. Today, there is a proposal for a bill confirming the Social Security Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Quebec, for the reason that the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada, which entered into force in December 2014, does not cover citizens, namely the insurance companies of Quebec as one of the largest provinces of Canada, for the reason that the pension system of Quebec differs from other Canadian provinces. In this respect, and given the comprehensive protection of insurance undertakings, it was necessary to create a special contract and this contract included insurance of both Contracting States, in terms of pension-inhabited insurance, including labour and occupational diseases and health insurance, i.e. covered by health care. What we should point out is that, in view of the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Quebec, co-operation between the state of Serbia and Canada is strengthened and extended, and so is Quebec. As the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, pointed out, when he met with Canadian Ambassador Giles Norman in February 2021, this co-operation should not only be in terms of social security, but also be strengthened on a political basis, related to political dialogue, incentives for the development of all areas of Canadian-Serbian relations. Vukic also noted that in the year when jubilee is marked, which is 80 years of diplomatic relations, between the Republic of Serbia and Canada, he is very pleased that many Canadian firms are coming to Serbia because Serbia is an open country for investors, which we also showed that in 2020, the crown year, we had the biggest inflow of foreign direct investment from all countries in the region, even in Europe and what he pointed out is that he expressed hope that, apart from mining and energy, Canadian businessmen would like to invest in other areas. Serbia is open today and a democratic society. Serbia today has good relations with the international community and content co-operation with other countries it wants from certain areas, not only Canada and Quebec, from areas such as agriculture, science and technology, which today shows an agreement that we also have on the agenda with the United States, in the area of agriculture, which shows an agreement that we have today on the agenda with the Russian Federation. It is important to note that more than 50 Canadian firms are operating in Serbia today, and this agreement, which is now on the agenda, has even more importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6175	Thank you. The word is Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6176	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Orlic. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, Mr Ruzic, the Honorable Minister, Mrs Tepavcevic-Kisic, I would like to say at this time that May is the month when we will best see all the successes of both the Serbian government and President Vukic in the past few months. It is clear and loud and President Vukic announced this morning. As we can see, these agreements and all of what we're talking about today confirm how well the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing in these difficult conditions to fight the crown of the virus. We're signing agreements with friendly states, and today we have three agreements, with the government of Quebec Province in Canada and with friendly states, the Russian Federation and the United States. In addition to supporting all three agreements, I will particularly refer to the agreement with the United States, because I believe that in our history every agreement with great powers is very important. When I talk about the United States, I want to say that Serbia and the Serbian people have given two great scientists, Michael Pupin and Nikola Tesla, who have reached their scientific zenith right in the United States and where it is in that period, I am talking about the period at the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries, the whole world has seen what Serbian scientists can achieve. Today, we also have a situation where the state leadership, led by Vukic, led by great foreign policy, has seen the brilliant diplomatic actions of our great scientist, Michael Pupin, who, building friendships with American powerful men and then US President Wilson, has managed to end diplomatically, friendly relations, good relations, Serbian and American people, that the then Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, can freely say diplomatically, assign important territories. Thanks to Pupin, thanks to his friendship with the US president, Banat did not belong to Romania, but belonged to the Kingdom of SHS, part of Macedonia and eastern Serbia did not belong to Bulgaria but to our country and the same happened to most of Dalmatia, which did not belong to Italy but, thanks to Serbian leadership and Serbian scientist who had no political function but had great authority and reputation both in America and in the world, so Dalmatia belongs to the then state. Why am I saying this? Because the time has come again for Serbia and Serbian giants to respect and appreciate prices around the world, to be valued both in the West and in the East. In the U.S., there used to be talk of Pupin and Tesla, and now it's about Pupin and Tesla, but now it's about Alexander Vukic. We finally have a president of the state who is recognised both in the West and in the East, about whom we can hear the words of praise both in China and Russia and in the EU and in the United States. The agreement only confirms this, as well as current and foreign and internal policies and President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What I must comment on with you, my dear MPs, my dear citizens of Serbia, our dear representatives of the Serbian government, that we today have a sharp attack and criticism of all that has been said by ministers and my fellow MPs and what President Vukic was talking about during today's visitation on television, and these are attacks on the family. So our political opponents are not saints or holidays or families. President Aleksandar Vukic spoke nicely about the programme and exposed everything, and on the other hand, we have attacks on his youngest child, Vukan Vukic, who has not yet turned four and who is guilty to Dragan Gilas, his political comrades only because he is the youngest child of Serbia's president. Not to mention the attacks on Daniel and Milic Vukic, not to mention the attacks on the brother of the President of the Republic of Andrej Vukic or the attacks on his parents. So, Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic attacks three generations of Vukic just because they are close relatives of the president of Serbia, only because the people led by Aleksandr Vukic in the elections do not allow those who kidnapped and stole from citizens to return to power. We have good news again today. Today, Serbia's president announced that he will also receive a cash prize from all those who will be vaccinated and who have already been vaccinated. So, the state of Serbia daily helps citizens, takes care of the people, takes care of every sector, and on the other hand we have attacks. We have attacks from those because they simply do not respond that Serbia is not a mafia state and that Serbia is no longer ruled by crime and corruption. Serbia knows what the budget is, where every dinar, how much help it gets, how much social assistance it is, how much help it is for pensioners, how much money it invests in the economy, how many kilometers of highways are built, no more thieving and as far as road construction is concerned. We haven't had a mob murder in Belgrade and Serbia in three and a half months, so we're already seeing the first results of the fight against the mafia. It's built all over Serbia. Here, we have also announced that the road will be cleared from Gornji Milanovac to Kladov, therefore, not only in northern Serbia's territory, but also new railways will be built from Nis to Northern Macedonia, not to mention the roads in western, southern and eastern Serbia. So, in all of Serbia, it's being built. He's investing in all of Serbia. All citizens are being helped. Serbia, as far as economic growth is concerned, is the best in Europe. As for the fight against the crown of the virus, and you too, Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, trades, because as a member of the Crisis Staff, you shared with us every day all data, so we are among the best in Europe and in the world as regards the fight against the crown of the virus and the vaccination. I also look forward to the latest fact that already in Belgrade has been rehabilitated, I think about 35% of citizens. So we move slowly towards our final goal of trying to reach one Israel and gain that collective immunity, according to our honourable and honorable members of the Crisis Staff. On this occasion we should support all members of the Crisis Staff, and those who are there in the state office and those who are there as representatives of the profession, because they, together with our President, are also concerned about the health of all of us. So today we have Serbia that cares about citizens' health, about citizens' finances, about Serbia's economy, about the excellent policy of regional, foreign policy and with great strengths and in the region. So Serbia was built in the state of Southeast European leader and country that is an example in both the Balkans and Europe. How can a country be run domestically? The state is small by some parameters, by some large ones, and for those of us living in the state of Serbia is the largest, because this is our country, our heart beats for Serbia. That is why we and the MPs and most Serbian citizens and you from the Serbian government of course recognise all these good results in which you participate and of course we should all contribute to every day fighting for as many vaccines as possible, for the health of our citizens, to preserve the money, not to allow criminals to return to power, not to allow the mafia to beat the state and to take care of our neighbours, our children, all of Serbia's citizens, and we can only do so as a strong state, which we are now thanks to the excellent policy led by our President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6177	Thank you, Mr. Gristle. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm taking a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6178	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubiša Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6179	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have been discussing certain agreements and it is evident that we are all agreed that these agreements should be accepted. After all, everything that happens between different groups, between different organisations of the people, must be implemented on the basis of some agreements. I don't think there's any problem here, that we're on the right track and we're going to adopt those agreements. But today is also a good coincidence that here are two ministers, Minister of Labour, Social and Combat Affairs and Minister of Education. These are two very important areas in which we have to pay very important attention today. Why? Because education, or education, is the basis of every system. We can't deny to ourselves that education doesn't have the status it's supposed to have. Mr. Minister, by circumstances, by God's will or whatever I say, is someone who is allowed to restore the importance and place where he should be. Education is the pillar of every system. And, Mr. Minister, don't be uncomfortable with your strength and your strength doing everything you can to get your education back to the place where he's always been in a position and position and the way it is everywhere in the world. I'm particularly pleased to hear today that you were almost at the Michael Pupin Institute. I'm sorry we didn't coordinate, so let's go there together, because most people here today mentioned Pupina and Tesla. The "Michajlo Pupin" Institute in Starar, Belgrade, is a top scientific organisation, a scientific organisation that can set an example for all, from which one can and must be taught. These are the people who have proven that Serbia has knowledge, that it has experience, that it has power and that it can be competitive in every place in the world. On the other hand, Mrs. Minister deals with working relations, martial arts and social affairs. There's a big problem. Madam Minister, I respect your enthusiasm, I respect your wish. I hope that you will be very successful and that, at least in part, you will be able to return some of the labour rights that have been denied to them, that you will allow all employees in Serbia to be worthy of their work. Here, I'll tell you why I'm saying it. I assume you know what a mixer is, I assume you know what concrete is. There are people in Serbia who are drivers of these mixers that deliver concrete to different construction sites, etc. I've had complaints from these people, who tell me they're forced to drive these machines that are together with concrete weighing over 40 tons at 15, 20 and 30 hours. It's something that's outrageous. We have to do everything to get these people a secure job, because yet, here, we're MPs here, say our job isn't difficult, imagine we have to work 30 hours, and especially when some 30 hours has to drive that ugly 40-ton thing. I know it's not easy, I know it's hard, it's not your fault for all those failures, which we've done to him in the Assembly here, for all the failures that have been made, and who knows which authorities, but it's up to you to help solve it, and that these and other people, there are such cases that I don't talk about, I have other examples, but I'm not saying, this is my most drastic example. I don't want to be too long, because there's a lot more colleagues to talk about. And, in the end, the house is built from the ground up and we have to start from the ground up. Mr. Minister of Education must start from the foundation with education and with the development of education. Soon we expect some law on secondary education. In your ministry, it also has to start from the ground up. What would that mean for us in Serbia? So, from the bar. I don't want to start that education from home, kids, etc. So, from a local level, we have to go to our place to be spotless, and when it's a good situation at the place, we'll easily create an upgrade, we'll easily get into a situation to make developmental Serbia, to make Serbia much better, much nicer and much more accessible to life. To help you with your work, I will be free, I hope you will not be angry, to give you a book called "Planning Local Development", in which you will see how the author, Professor Tihomir Radovanovic, gave the basics, how it is done from the local level, and beyond. Thank you very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6180	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6181	Thank you, Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Ruzic, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these agreements we are talking about today and we will discuss during today are of course important for the Republic of Serbia, they are important in achieving the overall goals of our country, of course, in a better geopolitical and foreign political positioning. Here you can see a whole beautiful country and portfolio of countries with which Serbia is almost daily establishing new relations or developing existing good, traditional relations. I will focus here on the Agreement that I consider to be the most important for our country, not only from an aspect that speaks about scientific and technological co-operation and co-operation in the field of education between Serbia and the United States, which is very important for Serbia, since America is the most advanced in terms of innovation, the development of innovative economy and the fact that somewhere around 85% of the total world level of innovation comes from the United States, that almost always every year on all relevant lists when it comes to universities and universities from 21st in the world, it is always from 10-15, and this co-operation for us, in addition to the political co-operation that has been achieved and which is truly at a high level, primarily thanks to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukiq, is very important. He managed to do a lot of work in just a few years on the co-operation plan between our country and the improvement of co-operation between our parliament and the US Congress, the Senate, the State Department, the US administration, and this resulted in Serbia finally having concrete results and concrete benefits from this co-operation. I think we should be completely pragmatic, completely open and completely honest with both citizens and ourselves. We simply can't talk about any progress, we can't talk about state modernisation, we can't talk about empowering our country, and we can't talk about our relations with America being bad. Of course, knowing this and having a clear strategy on how to develop these relations, President Aleksandar Vukic raised them to a very high level. What can please us here in parliament, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is that co-operation based on the economy, on new investments. It encourages that the US DFC, as their largest and strongest development agency, will be present in Serbia, which in the next few months, thanks to the Investment Protection Agreement, will have the opportunity to use, or our businessmen, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, to use as much as a billion dollars of funds to improve the capacities and capabilities of their own companies, so that they can employ people, so that they can renew their technology, so that they can invest in research and development. It is something that actually embellishes Serbian diplomacy in the past few years, which is that relations with all the countries in the world are based on a clear interest and are based on the development of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of our country. I must also mention the fact that Foreign Minister Selakovic has announced within a month that a special sector in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will only be in charge of economic diplomacy, which is encouraging and says clearly that Serbia has started to behave very pragmaticly in the past few years, given that in many developed countries in the world, I will only give an example of America, Brazil, many developed, well-developed countries, the impact of its foreign and foreign policy ministers is precisely measured by the amount of exports and precisely by the amount of investment that this ministry attracts to their country. So, long ago, this model of traditional diplomacy based on protocols was overcome, in traditional co-operation. Today we live in a time where there is a need for proactiveism, where a dedicated and serious work on the development of the state is needed, in positioning it, and especially when it comes to a small country for world opportunities, such as Serbia, requires a day-to-day hard work, so that we can show everything Serbia can offer in terms of potential for investment, in terms of potential for economic co-operation and, of course, new investment. How correct this policy was, as far as it produced the results, it clearly tells the fact that in the year of Kovid, Serbia, in the year of huge challenges during 2020, had an inflow of foreign direct investments of around 3.5 billion euros. It is as much as 67% of the total level of investment in the entire Western Balkans region and if, hopefully, Serbia retains this course and stability and everything that SNS and Aleksandar Vukic stand for on a daily basis, we can think about our country achieving this year and GDP growth of over 6%, which will say enough and what it says enough about our economy experiencing a quantum leap and that, as far as new jobs, new technologies, new investments are concerned, we do not have to worry anymore. That's what the president was talking about a few weeks ago. It is a joyous news, a joyous situation and an ambience that today citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not have to think about jobs as well. He's got work to do. He's got an investment. The company, domestic and foreign investment in Serbia, has. Now there are other priorities, some other things that citizens can think about and, of course, it is the greatest result of one country when it removes that danger, which was part of our country's everyday life. Unfortunately, from 2000 to 2012, the highest priority in some public opinion polls was the highest percentage of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when it came to fear, fear of losing their jobs was greater than fear of death, because there was no job, there was no possibility of people getting a job because the future was completely uncertain. Now we talk and live and work in a country that is a good partner at a global level, in which companies from around the world are happy to invest and rejoice that we have managed to get back to the path of old collaboration and alliances with the United States, with which we have great political co-operation. We hope that co-operation with the new Biden administration will be at least at the same level as it was from 2016 to 2020 when America led Donald Trump and will be based on equal foundations, on partnership and on the US, through its pragmatic political approach, simply acknowledging Serbia that it has legitimate interests in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, that it has the right to defend its national interests and its integrity and sovereignty and security and the life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We hope that such a policy will not stand down. How the dialogue process is going to go, and how America will behave during this next period, of course, we will see, but I don't think there's any going back to the old one, there's no going back to that ultimatum policy that was led until 2012 when Americans expected our countries and our officials to just figure out and sign that it's so-called. Kosovo is independent and free to get a chair in the UN. With that kind of policy, it's over. President Aleksandar Vukic has also made it clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the whole world how much can be done, how many results can be made if you are in one dedicated way leading foreign policy, if you are in one significant way leading foreign policy and if in that foreign policy you define, as you would say, one minimum of the interests of the two sides. In this case, I am also talking about America and Serbia, which is that the two sides have agreed over the past few years that resolving the issues and problems of everyone in the Western Balkans, or Southeast Europe, is the best cure for this economy, that the best cure for what Vucic is proposing has been an initiative for several years and that has finally been accepted by the US administration, which is the economy first. First the economy, free flow of goods, people and capital. It is a cure, a model that will help people in the Western Balkans improve their co-operation and solve political problems in one easier way. Of course, Serbia has for this time of several years since Alexander Vukic and SNS led it so economically and militaryly strengthened that it is definitely one relevant partner to the international community. What it is and what adorns the Republic of Serbia when it comes to foreign relations, which Serbia has never had in the past 30 years, is reliability. It is that Serbia today is a reliable partner, i.e. Serbia, which is definitely the only one in the Western Balkans region that is completely sovereign, which leads a completely sovereign policy and whose leader is not ashamed to say that it should insist on the policies of the Balkan Balkan peoples and that we would better agree here in the Western Balkans on resolving certain political, economic, social and all other issues than by mixing a foreign factor. I think the Americans understood that, and I think they will have a much more flexible position in some future period, given that a few days ago, President Biden said that the issue of Taiwan must not be touched and that it is expected from the People's Republic of China, but also from all other players that this situation that exists, or the state of some half-frozen conflict, is not touched. Then we too expect here in the Republic of Serbia to come to a final solution through one dialogue, in a pragmatic way, where, as President Aleksandar Vukic puts it, we will come to this opportunity to be equally dissatisfied with all sides. We will not be handling any "non-paper" and any papers that we can definitely say from this distance now, which are pushing our sides as if all these world players and people who are leading foreign policy still haven't realized that President Aleksandar Vukic is leading a solid, strong policy based on a clear vision, on the clear goals Serbia has, not for the next two or five years, but for the next 20 or 50 years for our country. So we're not going to catch that hook, but we're going to continue to take care of our own interests, strengthen our economy, strengthen our military, strengthen our social policy. Of course, I have to mention this, all of this, so there is no strengthening of the economy, there is no strengthening of the military unless there is empowerment and investment in science, if there is no investment in the education system and in all possible capacities and infrastructure related to the education system, an innovative policy based on the development of information technologies. This has been shown, in practice, during the fight against Kovid 19, that the process of digitising and implementing information technologies in our system of state and public administration has practically led us to be the first and sometimes second in Europe when it comes to immunisation and when it comes to saving the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I expect the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Ruzic, to continue with a strong push to develop relations in the field of education and scientific and technological co-operation with the United States. We are one of the few countries in Europe that has very little influence on education and education and science. It would not be bad to continue to work on empowering this kind of relationship, not because it will bring some great results in a fast period, but because it can lead to the transfer of technology, to the implementation and introduction of a new management model, i.e. a "mein set" in our companies, so ways of thinking our young people who can and should have opportunities to see how best world companies work, what their connection with scientific technology institutions is. I'll mention one more thing before I finish. Each American large multinational company has a science and technology park behind it, has a strong one or several universities. It may be a model for Serbia that we can apply here, to take advantage of the opportunity for Americans to invest, as does American En-Si-Ar through a $100m project, which already ends a science and technology park in New Belgrade, but to take advantage of the opportunity to do so in some less developed parts of Serbia, in the south, east Serbia, the west of Serbia, as we have done with highways, how we plan to do so with railways, with the health system infrastructure, to bridge our country with scientific, technological parks because we have, most importantly, what many of our competitors don't have, it's a highly educated and highly competitive workforce. So our young people, particularly highly educated, highly qualified, speak foreign languages. We have a great infrastructure that, together with our not only American partners, but also other Russian and Chinese and all others interested in co-operation, we can definitely capitalise and see an even greater growth of GDP in the coming period. Of course, I'd like to commend the deal with the Commonwealth of Dominicans in the end. It's a very important thing. We show that we are going back to the level of a serious diplomacy that implies that every country when it comes to foreign political relations has no less important, more important countries. All countries in this world are important to Serbia in view of our political problem and given the position in which our southern province is, so Kosovo and Metohija. Commonwealth Dominicana is one of 18 countries that has suspended recognition in the past two years. "Kosovo" and of course we need to pay special attention to those countries that are in addition to high pressure, and I have to mention the enormous pressures of mentors so-called. "Kosovo's independence", especially those of Western mentors, I must point out, find strength, find skills, wisdom, but also enough respect for international rights to make a sovereign decision and to make a declaration, i.e. suspending the so-called "suspension". "Kosovo and Metohija". What is essential is that I say on the subject, that there are many countries in the world that would do it, but we have to fight. I can also say from this pay phone that I am sure that 30% of the countries that have confessed so-called. "Kosovo" that this is the fruit and result of inactivity, ignorance, lack of leadership between 2000 and 2012, especially in the period from 2008, on February 17th, when so-called "Kosovo" declared its independence by its inaction, which we can implement under an entirely anti-patriot act. It can no longer be a problem of ignorance, it can no longer be a problem and poor perceptions of international relations. It's a hate, it's an inaction, and I'm sure 30% of those countries that have admitted so-called. "Kosovo," they admitted only because Kosovo Albanians were working, were on the ground, and we were not interested in it, that these people from 2000 to 2012, the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, the people in Kosovo and Metohija, our religious, cultural, historical heritage, were absolutely not interested. We are now in a situation that thanks to a wise policy by President Vukic, the whole world is slowly beginning to respect and that it definitely recognises Serbia's legitimacy in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. the legitimacy that Serbia is fighting a committed and strong fight for its people and for its heritage in Kosovo and Metohija. We will continue with such a policy. Of course, what is Serbia's priority and in the coming period that's co-operation, it's open hands wide. So it's an open liberal country in which you come freely, to realize tourist arrangements, but to invest money, to work here, to live. It is Serbia's SNS, Serbia's President Alexander Vukic, which is a modern Serbia, a country that has been completely, completely changed over the past few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6182	Thank you, Vlado. I know I scheduled you two, three sessions in advance. So what the government was saying about Dominica will count on him talking about the next session when it's on the agenda, since it's an agreement with Dominic on 11 May. But I absolutely agree with what he was saying, since I signed that agreement. Let's move on. The People's Messenger Vesna Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6183	President-in-Office of the Assembly, ministers, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to express my great satisfaction that today we are going to consider the proposal for a bill confirming the social security treaty between our government and the government of Quebec, the province of Canada. An important law given the issue of regulation, a large number of our citizens who live and work in Quebec territory and the fact that the area of social security between the Republic of Serbia and Quebec has not been regulated by an international contract so far. It is true that the area of social security and regulation is governed by the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada and that it entered into force on 1 December 2014, but is not covered by insurance undertakings on the territory of Quebec because, in accordance with the laws of Canada, this Canadian province has a special pension plan and specific powers to conclude social security agreements, and the legal basis is contained in the provision of Article 25. Social security agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada. I must stress that this year is a jubilee when Serbia and Canada mark 80 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations, and our president and our government continue to work continuously to strengthen political dialogue and develop a partnership between Serbian-Canadian ties in all areas as well as in the areas of social security, and for the overall protection of insurance in the entire territory of Canada. A number of Serbian communities live on Canadian soil and represent an important bridge between the two countries. That is why this contract of exceptional importance in the areas of pension and disability insurance is primarily due to citizens of Serbia living and working in Quebec and which, by concluding the contract, allows them to exercise their rights in pension and disability insurance, health insurance, health care, as well as insurance in the event of injuries to work and occupational diseases. Also, this contract provides some additional rights for insurance companies, foreign contractors, such as health insurance for posted persons, health insurance for students. For our citizens, the three principles are the most significant, i.e. three principles. First, that they are equal to the citizens or that they have the same treatment as the citizens of Quebec. Secondly, the years of employment completed in Serbia are recognised when gaining and establishing the level of pension and disability insurance rights in another country. The third principle refers to the payment of the payment in the event of a change in residence in another Contracting State. This principle implies that the use of compulsory social security rights is not restricted to the territory in which those rights have been exercised and provides for payment on the territory of the other party's Contracting Party. Therefore, if a person who has acquired or could acquire the right of compulsory social security covered by a contract is established on the territory of the other party, the first party of the contract will continue to pay him dues, i.e. to transfer them to the country of residence without reducing the amount of the grant. This contract is based on generally accepted principles. It is based on our country's experiences in this area, as well as on the standards foreseen by EU Regulation No 883/04. The Republic of Serbia is applying social security agreements with 31 countries, most of which are with EU members who live and work large numbers of our citizens. In the past few years, agreements have been concluded with the Republic of Greece, the Russian Federation. They're also done with China. An agreement with Tunisia and Azerbaijan is expected to be concluded in the coming months, as well as an entry into force of the Agreement with France. Also, initiatives have been launched to conclude a deal with the Netherlands and Italy. With great satisfaction for our citizens in the voting day, I will support the Law on Confirmation of the Social Security Treaty between our government and the government of Quebec, as well as all the laws that are on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6184	I thank the People's Parliament. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6185	Thank you, Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we have three agreements on the agenda. However, I will talk about one thing, and this is a bill to confirm the Protocol to amend and supplement the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States on Scientific and Technological Co-operation. If we said culture is the way of life, then scientific and technological co-operation, that is, science is power. That's why I want to talk about this agreement today. First of all, it's about protecting intellectual property. We need to protect intellectual property primarily because of the inventor, and then because of his material compensation. It is taxing on what should be done to avoid any violation of this agreement, and I will, of course, vote in favour of this agreement in the day of voting. What is very important to me is that the Republic of Serbia, its political option or its political goal, is the EU, but it is neutrality of war. Why am I saying this? Because we have friends in both the East and the West, and we make deals with every possible country in the world. We're strengthening diplomacy. We're strengthening bilateral relations. That is why today the People's Republic of China has helped Serbia by revitalising Basen Bor, which is one of the biggest exporters currently in Serbia. Also, Smeder, Iron. Let's just remember that our country was completely devastated. We also work and have extraordinary relations with the Russian Federation, but since last year and of course we have always had good relations with the United States until the 1990s, and then there was a chill, and we know why, especially in 1999, it was not repeated, anything caused, but last year thanks to our President, Mr. Vukic, who was in Washington at the invitation of the then president, Mr. Trump, the mass of the agreement was signed. The first agreement concerned an economic agreement, i.e. empowerment or normalisation of the relations between economic Belgrade and Pristina, as well as a mass of agreements that are valid for the Republic of Serbia. Also, the Regional Office of the Development Fund has been created, as the mass of investors from America has expressed a desire to invest right in Replica Serbia, and that's good. First, it's built and built, the American couples build the Moravia Corridor. Also, a science and technology park was built, I'd say a huge corporation. The company from Atlanta, which used to deal with ATMs, is today providing technological support to corporations all over the world, everyone who needs it. It employs 4,000 young people, the average salary is 2,500 euros, which is remarkable. Speaking of young people, 90,000 young people have returned to Serbia because of this sort of thing, one. Under two -- the Republic of Serbia has allocated half a billion or 500m euros to projects and youth employment. That's how it works. As far as this agreement is concerned, bilateral relations are strengthened, and we only remember our scientists - Tesla which is unsurpassed, then Pupin, and not only younger scientists, or Milankovic, air-conditioned, and then there is from Leskovec our scientist who has won all the possible awards, Mr Stojković, but also Josip Pančić and the mass of scientists, and not only scientists, the Republic of Serbia simply draws out the mass of scientists, young inventors, but also divine artists, athletes. Let's just remember the medals we got in group and individual sports. There is Djokovic, who in individual sport is the best ambassador, such as Tesla was or Pupin, now in the sport Djokovic. And not only Djokovic, but the mass of young inventors. Wherever we go, we get a reward. There are physicists, chemists, mathematicians. So, really another healthy nation and I'm proud of it. I'm proud to be a member of the living... I'm a Serbian, it's my glory tomorrow, but I also love all people living in the Republic of Serbia and I love all people in this world who have good intentions. What needs to be pointed out is that the Republic of Serbia is working with full steam, has a mass of projects, from "mini Schengen", something that has linked the region and four freedoms of capital, goods, transport and services, in turn. We're going to have a very fast economic summit here, but it's also as the most important digitisation. We're by digitization at 10th place in the world, please, 4th in Europe. This is how it is done thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Vukic. We're the 10th country in the world for digitization. In 2018, 8,000 schools were digitized, now 21,000. So, about 30,000 schools. Teachers have laptops. It was 8,000, now it'll be secured for another 18,000. Can someone in the environment tell me that's how it works? It's rarely like that. As far as infrastructure projects are concerned, we are leaders in the region. That is why people want to invest right here, because we have implemented EU legislation in our own legislation, we have safe laws, we are a factor of stability in the region. Then we connect, and we don't separate. It is this "mini Schengen" and small Europe that needs to make this stability and economic co-operation in the environment. Of course, Schengen was made between the Republic of Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia, but we also gave our hand to Bosnia and Herzegovina-Montenegro. Whoever wants to go ahead. It's building eight highways. I don't think anyone in the world is doing it right now. Eight highways, one country that has seven million inhabitants. The Moravian Corridor is being built, Karadjordje will be built, the fast road of Ruma-Sabac-Loznica will be built, the Fruskogorski Corridor will be built, the highway between Belgrade and Zrenjanin will be built. There are eight highways built, over 350 kilometers of highways built. What else didn't I say? Yes, Požega-Pray, which will be finished in 2022. So it's built all over the place. They're building fast tracks. A fast track is being built from Belgrade to Novi Sad, the first share will be completed by the end of this year, and then continues until Saturday, will be completed by Budapest. He's building partners from the People's Republic of China. Also, we hear from the other day that a fast track of Belgrade-Nish, Nis-Skopla, will be built, which is remarkable. Also, I can't help but mention that we're champions of the vaccination region. Most importantly, we imported both respirators and complete equipment. We got the vaccines amongst the first. We have four kinds of vaccines and that should be said every day, because no one in the world has four vaccines. Over three million people have been vaccinated, revaccinated over 1.6 million people. If we continue at this rate, and I think we will, we will be able to control this virus by Vidovdan in the sense that it will be 10 times less. That's how it works. I'm sure that today I've been in a home of health, I can see that it's a great order, because no more vaccination appointments, at least ten days that made me happy, because young people are inoculating. You should love yourself, but you should love others and protect yourself from others, because I think it's very important that this beautiful country loses no more man, no more man. We've lost artists, scientists, younger, older, pregnant and children. That can't go on anymore. I pray to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if they are able and not prohibited, I am the first of those who have been on all possible research and when they tell me that you definitely can, I received the vaccine because I have a lot of allergies. If I can, I guess someone else can. I hear a phaser can now vaccinate children over 16 years old. All pregnant women, nursing mothers. Chinese vaccines can also help children who are three years old. Therefore, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are vaccinated. If you don't vaccinate, there's another one coming. In Serbia, 39,000 foreigners were vaccinated. We've only seen 22 thousand foreigners vaccinated in two days. Once again, I appeal to all people to be vaccinated and that definitely Serbia is going to live a normal life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6186	I thank the MP Ljiljana Malusic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at today's meeting, we are discussing three agreements. One is related to co-operation in the area of plant quarantine and plant protection concluded with the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. As my colleague Marijan Risticevic said, there seems to me to be one opinion that it is very simple and easy to enter the Russian Federation market and that there are no rules and regulations that exist far from the truth. The Russian Federation market has its standards, these standards are very serious, in some areas even more stringent than EU standards, it is extremely selective, not only big. It is very difficult to get to that market first, and then to hold on to that market and those positions you have. This agreement that we conclude with the Russian Federation is certainly in favour of making it easier for our businesses to exchange certain plants. It can also be seed goods and everything there is, and the subject of exchange between our two countries. There is also an agreement between the Canadian province of Quebec and the Republic of Serbia in the area of pension insurance. Of course, we now have another agreement that is also important, it is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the US Government on scientific and technological co-operation. It just shows that the Republic of Serbia can co-operate with both the east and the west, and that it is also among the eastern and also among the western countries a highly desirable partner. When we talk about an agreement like this, it's certainly very important to us. The United States is one of the most scientific and technologically developed, if not the most developed country and any exchange of experience with the United States is also important for the Republic of Serbia. What surprises me is that since the arrival of the SNS to power there is so-called. The intellectual elite he gathers around him, Dragan Gilas, followed him along with Solak, and tried hard to imagine that Serbia is being led today by some sort of credential Serbia. They called themselves the elite, they joined the elite themselves, and they themselves determine who could be the intellectual elite of Serbia, far from the truth, far from everything that really exists in Serbia. The aim of them is to show that citizens are semi-literate or illiterate and therefore support the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, and that is why they support SNS, and they, who are capable, capable, smart, above all of us, cannot come to power because of the dictatorship conducted by Aleksandar Vukic. They say, they say, forgetting that the people think they are smart for themselves, that the people think that Serbia should be ruled by those who work for the benefit of the same people and that Serbia should be ruled by those people who do not harm their country first. When I say that, I will always ask the question – what is and how has the cultural and intellectual elite ruled Serbia until 2012? Back a few days ago, there was a strong controversy launched by the President of the Fiscal Council of Uncle Paula, Grandpa Pavle, as they already call him, otherwise a letter member of SANU, who wrote in part a political pamphlet that is now being captured by Dragan Gilas and Šolak and the entire former regime in the assessment of budget rebalances for 2021. He says in this political pamphlet: "Serbian citizens do not get 30 euros, but they will have to return 33 euros, with interest," and that is all they can say. In doing so, the intellectual elite, which, as far as I can see, also belongs to the President of the Fiscal Council, forgets one of the most important things – there is no state for itself, there are no citizens for the sake of the state, but the state exists for those citizens and the state is obliged to work exclusively in the interests of its citizens. For days, it has been an unfeeling analysis that the money in the budget for Serbia's citizens is gone and that we have to be in charge of financial markets and account for interest, now beware of this insolence, count the interest owed to Serbia and compare to the interest owed by France or Germany, for example. In doing so, it might be better to count on the interest that Serbia is in charge of today and which was in charge of Serbia by 2012, when the intellectual elite ruled. Today, the interest is five times smaller and this year we will pay off the early loan owed by the former regime headed by Dragan Gilas, worth 700m euros, with an interest that is more than 7%, and this cultural, intellectual elite will not tell Serbian citizens. He won't even say where they spent those 700m euros, they won't say what it was done in Serbia with expensive loans we've been raising, which we are now returning, while they were in power. Is there a highway built? I don't remember. He's gone all the way from Preshev to Vranj, gone. Is there a hospital built? Is there a preschool facility? No, we are now paying Serbia's citizens' claims, or Belgrade, for the unjust and illegal rise of prices by the city for pre-school institutions made by Gilas. That's not what the intellectual elite is talking about. They count that while they are in power, they apply the next rule, both Dragan Djilas and Solak and Miskovic. Their rule is Louis XIV: “The State, it is me. ” They take everything that belongs to the citizens, and they think it belongs to them, and that's the biggest problem of the former regime. So they can no longer skip the censorship with the stick up, so they bring that unfortunate perpetrator, he's the most common perpetrator, former Governor Soskic, who repeats that mantra appointed by the former assistant minister, former chairman of the Board of Governors, today's President of the Fiscal Council, Grandpa Pavle, repeats a persistent one mantra, that we do not know that we are leading the state and how the decisions we make are harmful. You see what an insolence is, the ultimate insolence. Former Governor Soskic says: "You shouldn't give subsidies to businesses, because investors themselves come if there is legal and economic security in the country." Now we can understand whether or not subsidies should be given, except for the big lie he told – that subsidies are only given to foreign investors. But I now have to ask one question - if investors come during our government because there are certain incentives, why were their authorities and domestic and foreign investors fleeing Serbia? I can't hear that answer. Today we're discussing an agreement with the U.S. government. And why did Serbia's largest investor run away from Serbia in 2011 regardless? I'm talking about U.S. Yu-Es-style. He escaped because he did not want to pay the costs incurred by the regime today led by Dragan Gilas. What serious investor will come to Serbia when Governor Soskic sells a billion and a half euros in foreign exchange reserves, and not saves the rate of the dinar? Here, I say to you, no one will. What foreign investor will come to Serbia if this same Soskic broadcasts state securities of value to cover and cover up the loss made by Agrobank? Not one, not just foreign, not domestic. Miskovic double-crossed the Delez and fled Serbia. The money from the sale "Maxia" placed in Cyprus, in exotic islands, in Bulgaria and in Slovenia and Romania, the dinar did not leave the dinar to Serbia, he trusted the former regime so much, but out of gratitude for allowing him not to talk about it so much money. What is not to say by the former governor of the National Bank, that his deputy governor, along with him, forged the report on the revision of Agrobanka and Vojvodina Development Bank in the Republic of Serbia, damaged billions and 700m euros? How much is the interest we're going to pay for that damage? Shut up about it, Shoskić. That's why I say - he's the most common perpetrator. Gilas and Šolak and Miskovic, who said, "Serbia, it's me," they took that money and don't give it up with ashes. And now, what they are most sorry about – the citizens will get the money. They say we buy votes. Well, Alexander Vuker Gilas and that team can win to tie both his arms and his legs and shut your mouth, because he's got results behind him. They do, too, but there's a desert behind them. The desert they made of Serbia while they were gardening on exotic destinations and sending money there. It doesn't take Alexander Vukic and SNS 30, 60 or 100 euros to beat the former regime. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia need that money. They've been living more than a year in specific conditions, in terms of pandemics, limited movement, limited freedoms, so to speak. Not those human beings, it's unlimited, but they can't consume anything they want because of the epidemic. That's why that money's being given. Then a former deputy minister and former chairman of the National Bank Board will come out and the current chairman of the Fiscal Council will say – but only 10% of that money will return to the budget through increased spending. That's not true. But to say I trust him. Here, I accept that 10%. And what about what was preserved jobs because of those 50 or 100 euros that were given? What's the benefit of the state? What good is that to the citizens? That's what Uncle Paul is talking about, don't talk. The President of the Fiscal Council will not say that, nor how much we have preserved jobs with this money, nor how much the economic potential of Serbia has been preserved during the crisis. And then they talk about dictatorship. And it's enough that if some show doesn't like Gilas or Šolak or Tadic, that the same TV or that same editor simply can't trade on the economic message market anymore. It was a dictatorship they made. And if we need it to allegedly beat the former regime, nothing easier than winning them, although the president disagrees with me. When were the 2016 elections scheduled? When fiscal consolidation measures were the most severe, when citizens suffered the most from the bad decisions of the former regime, when we, as SNS and the Prime Minister of the then-Government Alexander Vukic, adopted fiscal consolidation measures, we also called elections to ask citizens what they think about what we do in their interest. Should I repeat the result? I don't think so. And it will be a similar result in some of the next elections as it was in 2016 or as it was the result of 2020, because everything that has been done since 2012 has been in the sole interest of citizens, not the tycoon, not the President of the Fiscal Council, not stealing from banks made by the former regime, but exclusively in the interests of Serbian citizens, so they decide on who is the intellectual elite and who is the thief, and they always say it in the elections. I'm sure this time, in any subsequent election, they'll know and judge every thief with a penalty, which is that they can't skip the censorship, as they couldn't turn back a few choices.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6188	I thank the People's MP, Veroljub Arsic. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6189	Thank you, Vice President. Respected citizens, respected colleagues, respected representatives of the government, are increasingly involved in this respected home as a topic of debate on various international agreements or contracts. It seems kind of protocolal and maybe a little formalistic sometimes, but if you look at things a little bit deeper and if you look at it analytically, you'll realize that things don't exactly work out that way. It can draw a few conclusions, but two are in this case that we're talking about today, i.e. These agreements we're talking about today, the most significant. First, by looking at areas regulated by these agreements, it is clear that today the government regulates almost every area of life, which is primarily due to Serbia's development and the need for such a procedure to be regulated. So it's about social security in this agreement with Quebec, scientific and technological development when it comes to an agreement with the United States and plant protection when it comes to an agreement with the Russian Federation, but it's much more than plant protection, it's creating serious conditions for the development of trade with the Russian Federation. But one question arises – do you think there is any need to edit in a society that is not developing? This is, of course, a rhetorical question, you don't have to answer it, but the fact is, there's nothing to edit in societies that aren't progressing. Only societies that develop and advance have a constant need to edit many areas of life. And only companies that make serious progress have the need to establish relations based on such agreements with some other societies and other countries. It is also probably another conclusion that is imposed when it comes to these three agreements. And the second, you understand, is the conclusion that Serbia today is a country with a serious development of international relations and a serious reputation abroad and these two conclusions are also linked. So, Serbia in serious development and Serbia with a serious international reputation in the world. The team gets a lot more weight when you know these agreements are with important countries like the United States and the Russian Federation. Not a bit formal or a little protocol. It's a very serious thing. The truth is, if we are talking about some infrastructure projects that the president of the country has talked about this morning or even some political achievements, it may seem something different, because Serbia has a serious success in the area of infrastructure and in the area of some other political developments in the Balkans. But to look at it better, let's compare it to an earlier period. Can we even compare this and talk about Serbia's development in an earlier period most Serbia would rather not remember? Can we even talk about the development or mere survival of this country and what international reputation in Serbia we can talk about when it comes to the period until 2012, 2014 if you will by 2016 when the entire northern province of Serbia led the opposition today? We'd rather forget. Today these same people, unfortunately, are planning to run this country again. It is good to compare this with the policies that are led by today's Prime Minister and today's government and to draw conclusions. You will easily draw a conclusion from everything I have said and what my colleagues have said, you will easily draw the conclusion that in the voting day we will support these agreements, because they symbolically, in addition to regulating certain areas of life, mean and supporting Serbia's development policy and policies to strengthen its international reputation at whose head and at whose peak today's president of the state stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6190	I thank the People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6191	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have a draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation, as well as a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States and confirming the Treaty on Social Security between Serbia and Quebec, so three very important agreements that are the fruit of negotiations between Serbia and those countries. The aim of the agreement with the Russian Federation is to facilitate procedures for exports from Serbia, better export chances and opportunities for our exporters to place their products on the Russian Federation market, which will certainly ensure greater profits for our producers and exporters, mainly fruit, vegetables and plant products. The aim of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States is to establish even stronger co-operation in science and technology, and this is exactly a good step towards establishing stronger bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and the United States. The aim of Serbia is certainly to understand ourselves immediately, full membership in the European Union, but in line with six defined priorities of state policy, which has been defined and declared by President Aleksandar Vucic, we will continue to lead a sovereign, free and independent policy and to establish even better relations with our friends and strategic partners everywhere in the world. Here, first of all, I think of the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation, but we will try to build and improve relations in the future and with the United States, because I think it is important and we have succeeded, just after the Washington Agreement, to bring into Serbia the American Development Corporation and to enable the citizens of Serbia what they really deserve, which is a better standard of living and the creation of new jobs. I am sure that the American Development Corporation would not come to Serbia if they were not sure of political stability and the economic stability of the Republic of Serbia. You have seen, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and they have seen the importance of leading a serious and responsible foreign policy, and how important it is to work to strengthen the international reputation of the Republic of Serbia both in the east and in the west, which is exactly what the SNS has been doing every day since 2012. This is exactly the kind of policy led by the SNS and thanks to the efforts of President Aleksandr Vukic, we had the most direct foreign investment in 2019 compared to the whole region. I will remind Serbian citizens that 3.6 billion euros of foreign direct investment arrived in Serbia in 2019 and that in addition to the global crisis, we managed to maintain such a trend in 2020 and to reach 2.9 billion euros of foreign direct investment in Serbia. It is precisely one of the reasons why we managed to reduce the unemployment rate in Serbia below 10%, which is a historical minimum and which is three times lower than in the period until 2012, when these wastefuls from the Democratic Party and from the former regime's parties managed the country. So the policy led by the SNS is focused in the most direct way on each individual and every man in Serbia. When we talk about Serbia and Russia's relations, we are grateful for the support we have in front of international institutions, as regards the fight for the preservation of our territorial integrity and sovereignty, as regards the fight for the preservation of our vital state and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija, but we also work very well on the economic plan. I have to point out the realisation of important, primarily infrastructure projects, and here I want to highlight the construction of the railway between Novi Sad and Old Paz. I also think it is a good opportunity to highlight the construction of a pipeline through Serbia, therefore, between Hungary and the Bulgarian border, as well as a project that will be implemented, which is a Balkan flow, which is part of the Republic of Serbia, because the project is important for economic stability, is also important for energy security, but is also extremely important for the national security of the Republic of Serbia. By the way, it's useful for all the citizens of our country. Serbia does not hide and should not hide that we are grateful to our partners on the international stage for the help and support we received during the fight against the pandemic of the coronary virus, because in this way, through the conduct of serious and responsible foreign policy, we have managed to provide everything necessary for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the needs of our country, but not only that, we have been solidarity. We were able to help everyone who needed to get vaccines in the region and we showed what we've always been, and that's that Serbs are really a solidarity and a great people. Now, after all I've said, imagine, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia run Serbia by those who managed this country until 2012 and who daily run the campaign and against the investments coming from the People's Republic of China, who daily run the campaign and against co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation, which led an unfeeling campaign against the signing of the Washington Agreement, namely, against the investments coming from the United States. Imagine if they run this country, would the citizens of Bor and Smedereva have a job today? Would we be able to provide enough vaccines and all that was needed for the needs of our country and our citizens? I can't imagine what would happen in matters relating to the important national and national interests of the Republic of Serbia in international institutions. I am sure that of these projects that are important, first of all, infrastructure projects would be nothing, and the question is whether we could have managed the policy they were leading until 2012, to realize the story of building a vaccine factory at the Tolak Institute, which will not only be important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also for the whole region. By the way, they've always given a shit about "Torak" and Serbian state and national interests. This was best proved through his political action, Vuk Jeremic, who asked the disastrous issue before the International Court of Justice in The Hague and caused us the greatest damage to Kosovo and Metohija, because during his policy dealing with Serbia, the border between Serbs and Serbs in Jarinj and Brnjak was established, the UN's focus of negotiations on KIM has been moved to the EU field. That, to be honest, is not surprising, because it was all done during the presidential term of Boris Tadic, who went proudly to Croatian radio and television to say that he is not proud at all that he is the President of the Republic of Serbia, because these are people, this team of politicians around Djilas, Jeremic and Tadic who has no ideology at all, and their only interest is money. As far as foreign policy is concerned, they are only interested in the Hong Kong issue, but not in the political context, but in relation to who has more influence in Hong Kong, whether it is Dragan Gilas or Vuk Jeremic, in relation to the number of secret accounts they own there, and where the money is held by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind Serbian citizens that Vuk Jeremic was the central political figure of a corrupt scandal, and that with his partners Patrick Ho and Emilio Lozoj in moments while performing an extremely important post in the UN and thus managed to impair the reputation of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind the citizens of Serbia and the discussion between Vuk Jeremic, as the minister of foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia with Milan Rocino, Montenegro's foreign minister. I cannot quote parts of that conversation out of courtesy of this high house and of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But their phone conversation best illustrates what their relationship is, that is, the attitude of Vuk Jeremic towards Serbia and Serbia's national interests. It's not like I'm wasting any more words on them. Simply, anything they touched that had something to do with Serbian national interests, they simply managed to destroy it. Finally, I would just like to mention, in the spirit of today's topic, that I am extremely pleased to have good co-operation with our international partners on strengthening and equipping our armed forces, on strengthening the capacity and equipment of the Serb army. Serbia is economically strong today so that we can strengthen and equip the Serbian army. Our air force is reinforced by new MiG-29 aircraft, new drones, drones, our anti-aircraft defence forces are strengthened by new missile anti-aircraft systems, a vest, and I don't think there are any people in Serbia who are not happy and satisfied when they see a strong and equipped Serbian army, which Serbian citizens have almost had the opportunity to see on the military exercise "Responsibility 21". A strong Serb army will in any case be a guarantee of peace and stability in the region, but also a strong deterrent factor for anyone who ever thinks they can in any way endanger Serbian national interests. I will remind Serbian citizens that the Serbian army's strength has been started since 2012 when President Aleksandar Vukic came to the head of the defence ministry, because this man was just doing everything the opposite of what Zdravko Ponos was doing, which Dragan Sutanovac was doing, and he was going to systematically destroy and humiliate the Serbian army and they were doing it in three phases and they came to the end of the first phase. I will also remind the citizens of Serbia that in 2012, at the end of that first phase, Serbia had no and the Serbian army had no one plane that could take off. In the second phase of the budget, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the states of Serbia would have to allocate huge funds and allow someone else to guard the sky and protect the sky above Serbia. It would probably be a NATO member, and then in the third phase, it would go into a campaign to address Serbian citizens and say that these funds could be spent in a much smarter way, but that it is necessary for Serbia to humbly join the NATO alliance. That is why citizens, due to such a treasonous policy in 2012, have finally said enough to them since 2012, with the coming to power of Alexander Vukic and SNS, Serbia is moving to lead an independent, sovereign and free policy. We are going to strengthen our army and today Serbia has its strength and today Serbia is sovereignly protecting the sky above Serbia and we owe no one anything and we don't have to pay anyone anything. We are the best and we will continue to strengthen our capacities and in the field of health, we will continue to strengthen our economy and we are the best and for this very reason we are the best in the process and in the process of vaccination and collective immunisation of our citizens, so we are the best in Europe today as regards economic growth and we will continue, I am sure, especially we from the SNS to strengthen, in the full sense of that word, the capacities of the Serbian state. That is why I will finally say that in the day of voting, together with my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS, from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – I will support the proposals of the laws and agreements that are on the agenda today, because I think they are useful for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6192	I thank the MP Milos Terzic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6193	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Tepavcevic, the respected representatives of the Ministry of Education, Mr. Ruzic, who is currently not, and you, his associates, let me begin by expressing great satisfaction with the co-operation of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture with the Ministry of Education, Culture and Technological Development, not only in the field of education and education, but also in science thanks to state secretary Mrs. Dukić Mijatovic. Also, Ms. Minister Tepavcevic, convey to the crisis staff the thanks of the MPs for all that the crisis staff has done regarding the health of our citizens, not only in our country, but in the environment and I hope that in the future it will also continue to treat our citizens. Let me move on to these agreements. This agreement, when it comes to Russia, I can say that it is in the mutual interest of two brotherly and friendly countries, both Russia and Serbia. Let me say that there have been these agreements and to look back on the historical development of friendly relations between Russia and Serbia on the one hand, and on the other hand between the United States and our country. This friendship of citizens with Russia built centuries in cultural, historical, spiritual and anti-fascist relationships. The Russians settled in Serbia, both architects, scientists of various professions literally rebirthed Serbia and left an extraordinary trail, making a major contribution to the development of science, universities, ballet, operas, architecture, heraldics, and comics in other areas, as well as sciences, and society. Let me say that King Alexander Karadjordjevic was considered one of the great friends of the Russians. Just with his support, Serbian patriarch Barnabas opened in 1933. Russian home in Belgrade. It's the oldest cultural centre in Belgrade. Dear People's MPs, this is very important what I'm about to say and to point out. There are over 60 Russian homes in the world, but only the Belgrade-based Russian home is intended to associate Russians and Serbs. Some of the most beautiful buildings and houses, not to mention, were designed in Belgrade by Russian architects. By 1925, 17 Russian schools had functioned in the Kingdom of SHS. Serbs and Russians, as two peoples, have never been in a war conflict. That's what I'm particularly undersinuating. On the contrary, many Serbs, following a sign of Orthodox faith, fled the union and settled in the 18th century two areas in Tsarska Russia – Novoserbi and Slavnoserbi. Furthermore, Russia was the only, only foreign political ally of Serbia from 1804 to 1813 during the first Serbian uprising. Our Serbian and Montenegrin Petar II Petrovic Njegoš sent to St. Peter Cetinjski's amannet, praying to God and sticking to Russia, was held in St. Petersburg on 6 March 1833 by the bishop of Montenegro and Brda. Dear People's MPs, the day after the Austrian ultimatum, on July 24, 1914, Serbian King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic asked Russian Emperor Nikolai II Romanov for advice, and he sent him a famous response, quoting: "Russia will not leave Serbia in any way," the quote concluded. Russia's role in World War II was immeasurable. More than 26 million Russians gave their lives to free themselves from fascism, and they built their lives into the foundations of freedom. For Belgrade's freedom, as you know, Russia has given over a thousand lives. Serbs and Russians are the people of the same root, the same blood, the same faith, almost the same letter, almost the same language, and it further connects and strengthens us. Dear People's MPs, the great Dositej Obradovic was the source of attempts to move spiritual life in a Central European, pro-Western direction. The material is a Westerner, as you know, spoke more western languages, admired English culture. The file claimed that English women are the best women in the world, but as soon as he moved to Serbia, after he was called by Karadzic, who was as you know Austria, he said, quote: "Carajordorje, turn to Russia," the quote concluded. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and respected MPs, if Russian painting were removed from world painting, the world would be darkened if Russian music were removed from the world music, the world would be deafened if Russian literature were removed from world literature, the world would fail. Dear People's MPs, let's go to the other side of the medal. Serbs have also made a huge contribution to the Russian state, and I especially stress that Serbs have been hitting the foundations of the modern Russian state. When I say that, I'll give you three examples. First, Sava Vladislavić Raguzinski, as you know, was the secretary of Russian Emperor Peter the Great and Ambassador of Russia to China and struck the border between the Chinese and the Russians and no one later corrected it, it seems to me, only during Putin did something to correct it and thus hit the foundations of the Russian state with modern, of course. General Count Mihajlo Miloradovic founded the Russian Intelligence Service and was the most responsible in defending Moscow from Napoleon in 1812. Of the 30 generals in Moscow's defence, 10 generals were Serbs in the Borodin battle, and just as General Miloradovic saved Moscow from Napoleon, hitting the foundations of the modern Russian state. The third example, there are more but allow only one more, and the Serb, Herzegovic, as well as these two, Marko Vojnovic was the founder and first general of the Russian Black Sea fleet, believe it or not, but it was true, and thus struck the foundations of the modern Russian state. The co-operation, honourable MPs, has improved and led to the highest level today of President Aleksandar Vukic and Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin in all areas of social and economic life. I'll be, as you know, very specific so I'll give you examples. President Aleksandar Vukic managed to return the 166th edition of Miroslav's Gospel after 175 years. Is it true, MPs? Of course it's true. Secondly, thanks to the efforts of our President Alexander Vukic and Vladimir Putin, the Russians contributed to the construction of the temple, and greatly contributed to the construction of the temple of St. Save on Vracar, the world's largest Orthodox monument. Isn't that right, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? That's right, of course. Let's move on, Russian, Rukavisnikov is the author of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, the creator of the medieval Serbian state. Isn't that right, MPs? That's right, of course. I'm particularly pleased to hear from our political opponents, especially some of the university professors who are criticizing us every day for no reason these days and I'm asking them now, let them answer these questions. Let's move on, Serbs have not imposed sanctions on Russia thanks to President Vukic's efforts. Is it true the honourable Members of the People? Of course it's true. Let's move on, the Russians have prevented the UN Security Council, thanks to our president and co-operation with the Russians, from calling Serbs a genocide nation. Is it true they stopped it? Of course it's true. We move on, the Russians have prevented Kosovo from being a member of Unesco, thanks to the co-operation of our president and president of Russia, Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin. Dear People's MPs, I have many more examples, but for the sake of time, let me move on to co-operation between Serbia and the United States. There were light moments in Serbia and America's relations, but there were some declines. From our relations with America, we need to highlight positive examples from our common history, because that way we will overcome the wrong perceptions that have been created in the last years of the 20th century, not only created, but unfortunately done by some. The two countries made a major contribution to co-operation, two Serbian and world scientists, Nikola Tesla and Mihajlo Pupin, which I will not talk about because counterpart Risticevic spoke of at the beginning of today. How much respect was shown also the fact that on July 28th 1918, a Serbian flag was flying on the White House. The date should be marked both in Washington and Belgrade every year, I believe that we will find a common language with the Americans very quickly and will do so in the future. Our relations during the Kingdom of Serbia during World War I were friendly, as you know, and they were allied. The United States was the first of the leading forces to support the idea of creating a Yugoslav state, but I underline but, ladies and gentlemen, they were among the first to break that Yugoslavia, the United States. Dear People's MPs, Serbia has been defined in terms of current relations to approach open issues in a diplomatic and constructive way, taking care of wider stability not only in the region, but also in Europe. Serbia is ready to boost bilateral relations with the United States, which has been proven in recent months and years, as only this approach will lead to co-operation having a positive dynamic. I am convinced that this dynamic will be in the upward line. The United States is supporting Serbia in achieving full EU membership, and we really should thank that gesture. America has an exceptional opportunity to overcome the negative attitude towards Serbia, which showed at the end of the 20th century that our relations would be raised to an envious level. Serbia, led by Aleksandra Vukic, significantly promotes these relations, and I am confident that your future relations with the new administration will be better. Dear People's MPs, in the end, let me say this. Yesterday, a candidate for the president of the state, as they say, Dragan Gilas, in a people known as the "Giki Mafia". Such as Gilas, evil and fraud, the people and the state, never to repeat itself to Serbia again, and we have spoken these days about how evil he is both for the nation and for the country in general. Let me say that Verica Barac fully exposed the crime, corruption, executive authorities, judicial authorities, tycoon, secret services and money flows during the Gilas regime, as well as the way in which Dragan Gilas, as mayor of Belgrade, earned wealth, set up state tenders for private companies of his party comrades and his own. I am indeed calling on the Serbian Prosecutor's Office to take finally to start doing its job. Verica Barac spoke of media control performed by Gilas and Jeremic. As you know, Barac passed away, unfortunately in 2012, but the other videos that are still current that point to dirty money flows that have made Gilas and his associates rich at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The footage simply disappeared, believe it or not, to cover it up. Verica Barać said, I quote her words -- here she is allowed Mayor Gilas to have private companies dealing with the media, this is true for Gilas and Schafer, said Verica Baraq, it is brazenness and cynicism, constantly doing business with the budget, so capable of constantly doing business with the budget, finished quote. Do you now understand how Gilasu 619 million and your respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia made it clear to you? I'm calling the D.A.'s office again to finally start doing his job. Verica Barac said the media in Serbia were trapped through Dragan Dilas, and he is saying today, objecting to us that the media are trapped. He did it. Here's what I'm going to quote the late Verica Barac. She says -- they are working, Gilas and Shafer and his associates Jeremic and Tadic, which is media control in Serbia, Gilas and Schafer, buying minutes in advance, that's what Mr Risticevic says here daily in the Assembly, doing so today, paying in advance, and thus having a strong impact on the media, controlling daily newspapers by buying space in the media and censorship of newspapers, completed the quote. Who's a respected citizen doing censorship? And today the media is under his control worse than during Goebbels. Here's what, respected citizens, you saw the look of journalism during Dragan Gilas, in a people known as the Gicky Mafia. It was, and it didn't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6194	The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6195	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are today ahead of us three laws confirming the agreement. One proposal for an agreement is with the United States. He's about scientific and technological co-operation. The second is with the government of Quebec on social security, and the third is with the Russian Federation in the area of plant quarantine and plant protection. The contract with the government of Quebec is of importance to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who live and work in the Canadian province of Quebec since Quebec has a special pension plan that differs from Canada. Confirmation of this agreement is important because it will enable citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in Quebec to exercise their rights in areas of both pension and disability insurance, but on the other hand it is important for the Republic of Serbia, since it contributes to further developing and strengthening friendly relations and co-operation in all areas. When we talk about Serbia's co-operation and friendly relations, it is important to note that these are not the first agreements we are talking about here and that we confirm. As we see and as we have witnessed many times, Serbia today has friends everywhere in the world and we co-operate from both east and west. It is precisely because of this wise way of leading the foreign policy of Alexander Vukic, that we have managed to succeed in this period that is specific to the crown of the virus. This global situation caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus affects absolutely everything. The Republic of Serbia has shown from the very beginning that it is fighting on the one hand for the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but on the other hand for the liquidity of economic operators. It's a constant struggle that we continue today. We're saving lives, economics and economics, but we can't forget that this is a fight that we're fighting on two fronts. On the one hand, the fight is on the economic plan, and on the other hand is a struggle on the health plan. When it comes to health struggles, it is important to note that in the previous period we have made a huge effort to ensure exactly what is not priced, which is health. That is why there is never more investment in the entire health system, in the health structure and in the health sector in general. We've opened two hoofs of hospitals. One covid hospital is in Batajnica, the second in Kruševec and should be reminded that the third hospital is set as the cornerstone in Novi Sad, and the completion of the works is expected by September 1st at the latest. With 600 beds, this hospital will have great importance, not only for Novosadjans, but for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in that part of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the construction of covid hospitals is not only important for this period, for the period when the coronary virus lasts, they are important and when the pandemic is finished, or it will be of importance and after. It is important to mention that there is an open plant for making vaccines in Torlak, and our long-term goal, as Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic stressed, is to make Torlak one of the best factories in Europe. The fact that we have our vaccines will also mean further improvement of the vaccination process in Serbia, and precisely the rate of vaccination and the effectiveness of vaccination depends on the rate of economic recovery, as well as the progress of the Republic of Serbia. We have seen the importance of investing in health care. We've been on one side enough and economically and financially capable of doing all this. Now I've only reminded myself of some of the investments in health care over the period of the coronary virus, but we can't forget those and those investments that were in that previous period. Minister Sinisa Mali said in one of his previous exhibitions that in 2019 investments in healthcare were 289 billion dinars, and in 2021, this year, investments are in health care of 417.7 billion dinars. That's about a billion euros more than in 2019. What does this tell us? It says the government of the Republic of Serbia has invested significantly in health care before. However, she recognised the importance of additional investment in health care and now she has invested about a billion euros more. It's clear that the coronary virus knows no bounds, and that's why we can't look at borders when it comes to pandemics. We've shown good neighbourly relations. We all remember that President Aleksandar Vukic donated on behalf of all of us, or donated vaccines to our neighbours. We've also opened the border to vaccinate people from the region. We are aware that if the whole region develops and the whole region progresses that Serbia will make greater and better progress. That is why it is important that as a region, not just as Serbia, we all deal with the pandemic together. I think it is important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to remind us of our efforts in this period to help. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia have seen and seen that Serbia thinks of them when it is difficult, and they feel that Serbia is a state in which the state is strong and stable. The uncertainty that governments around the world are creating new economic and financial challenges, and we understand that a continuation of the support measure is necessary, and this is precisely the continuation of the measure that allows the economic and financial consequences of the pandemic to be mitigated and the liquidity of economic operators is increased, as we have mentioned as part of that economic struggle. This also prevents the closure of factories, but also mass layoffs, as is the case in the world, but also on the other hand, we prepare for that life after the crown. What is important is that citizens of the Republic of Serbia today have the opportunity to apply for those 30 plus 30 euros in aid from the state. First they could sign up via the eGovernment portal. As of today, however, they can also apply via the call center, given that the work of the call centre has started today. It should be noted for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that President Aleksandar Vukic announced one additional aid to the citizens this morning, which is aid of three thousand dinars to all citizens who are more than 16 years old and who are vaccinated until May 31st. The President of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are safe and responsible for taking care of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of the economy, of health care. They are working to mitigate the negative effects of the virus's coronary and to facilitate business functioning in this specific environment. Serbia has shown it can fight to be one of the best countries in the battle against the crown. We want successful Serbia, Serbia which is the winner, which will be the leading in Europe and when the pandemic ends. In the day of the vote, I will support all the draft laws, proposals for the law to confirm the agreement and this one treaty, and I call on all fellow Members and fellow MPs from the legislator group Aleksandar Vucic - for our children to do the same, because by confirming these laws and agreements, international co-operation is improving, and thus Serbia is progressing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6196	I thank the People's MP, Vuk Mircetic. The word has the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6197	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Mrs. Kovac. Madam Minister, a representative of the ministry, I hope the Ministry of Education is, since I want to give some suggestions to the education, the minister is rightly absent, but I assume you'll pass it on to him. Before I move on to agreements that I consider to be of great importance and importance, Professor Atlagic, recently spoke about a subject I was talking about during the first phase of inter-party dialogue. So, I fully respect this rule of chatham house, I'm not talking about what happened at the beginning of the second phase of inter-party dialogue, but Mr Atlagic, you know, when we spoke during the first phase of the inter-party dialogue with representatives of the European Parliament and when they mentioned freedom of the media, I asked the question to the representatives of the European Parliament -- how are you suddenly engaged in the freedom of the media, and you didn't take advantage of it in 2011 when you had the Barac report, which was so transparent, which was so visible and completely going in the direction you were talking about, and this is pressure on the media and one-way in Serbia? So, one media darkness. The answer to that question was that they were not at the time European Parliament's rapporteurs, and I asked them - were you European Parliamentarians, did it mean that to you then? If today as European parliamentarians mean election conditions to you in Serbia, how did they not mean to you? How do you remember the freedom of the media today? How come you're remembering a functioning campaign today, and by 2012, you didn't mention that same functional campaign? But, you know, there's something else interesting about the Verice Barac report. That's the question I expect we'll get an answer very soon. The report wasn't just signed by Verica Barac as far as I know from some unofficial sources. I would like us, people's representatives, or citizens' representatives to get an answer to the question of who signed the Verica Barac report? Would it be very interesting to see the names that signed the report behind that report? Otherwise, I am fully convinced that Serbia will not return to this worst possible past when we talk about freedom of the media, because freedom of speech, freedom of expression and freedom of opinion are fundamentally postulated by a democratic society as Serbia today is, and in this way, I don't know if you read the portals, several hours ago the text came out, as unofficially knowing what the representatives of the opposition, one part of the opposition, the self-proclaimed opposition talked to European parliamentarians, and again, of course, the media, and again REM, and again, of course, will replace the editors of RTS. Change the editors of RTS, so which editor of RTS has this ruling coalition set up? Absolutely none. It would be very interesting to get an answer to these specific questions so that we could later develop a story and see what someone was doing and why someone was not dealing with this issue in 2011, and they find it interesting to deal with 2021. Of course, it is clear why they are dealing today, because of pressure and because only one man bothers them, which is the president of Serbia, SNS President Aleksandar Vukic, and it is important to put pressure on the presidential, parliamentary and Belgrade elections. But they forget one thing. The quasi opposition forgets one thing, not for that Gilas, and I don't know his group, the European parliamentarians will vote, but the citizens of Serbia will vote, and it seems to me that they haven't realized for a long time that the plus-squamperfect of Serbia's political scene has long been told to them. Now, if you'll excuse me, Mrs. Kovac, for ignoring the subject, without, of course, reducing the importance and importance, I want to talk about two agreements. An agreement first with the Russian Federation and then an agreement with the United States. At the very beginning, I would like to say that Serbia attaches enormous importance and importance to relations with the Russian Federation. We have excellent bilateral relations in all fields, strategic partnership relations, traditional friendship between our two peoples. Simply put, our relationships can be defined as true, brotherly, respectful and versatile support and cooperation. We also have good bilateral relations when we talk about relations between the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the State Dume of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, because I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the highest form of bilateral co-operation that has just been achieved through co-operation with the State Dum of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation through the Co-operation Commission and this same relationship has with the People's Republic of China. These are unique two cases. On the other hand, if we were to talk about groups of friendships, let's say, if we were to start from the Parliament being the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would be corrected by the now respected Professor Stojmirovic, if the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the voice of the people, then we are representatives of the citizens, and if they are the most numerous parliamentary groups of friendships with Russia and China, then you have a clear attitude towards the Russian Federation and China, without, of course, reducing the importance of relations with the United States and I will speak of it in particular. Of course we are very grateful for Russia's principled support for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. So, the Russian Federation has a principled position when it comes to unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija and thus respects me, correct me professors if I am wrong, but universal principles of international law. Also, we are grateful that Russia has not said for one moment that it is against Serbia's European path, but that it supports Serbia on the European path, and that when it comes to KIM, it supports every compromise and just solution that comes through dialogue, through the talks, respecting UN Security Council Resolution 1244. On the other hand, we are also grateful to the Russian Federation for making it impossible on a bilateral basis for the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo to become part of international organisations. In this way, the Russian Federation knows for who knows which way it is the builder, but also that it best defends a fairer international order based precisely on international law, based precisely on the objectives and concepts defined in the UN Charter. So, as far as that goes, great gratitude to the Russian Federation. The agreement we are talking about today is certainly another step forward in improving these bilateral relations. It looks forward to the fact that foreign trade has seen growth for the past few years, but there is still room of course for economic relations and exchanges to improve. Plant protection is part of agricultural production which makes up a significant segment in increasing the yield and quality of plants and its products, and thus also affects trade. The initial state of reproduction depends on further production, but it is also important to prevent the transfer of harmful organisms. An important measure in this direction can be a plant quarantine, which exists in all countries of the world. This measure implies the isolation of plants from fruit material over a certain period of time, when importing or exporting. The main reason for the introduction of plant quarantine is primarily to defend our country's agricultural potential and production. The introduction of only one infected plant organism can cause major consequences in terms of overall agricultural production, they say. How important the agricultural production of a single country has shown exactly the period of covid, it showed a period since March of the month. Many times I have said, I will repeat today, when it is most difficult for you to rely on only two things, and these are your own sources, when I say my own sources and my own resources, first of all, I mean agriculture, because agriculture fed Serbia when it was the hardest, and second thing you can rely on is traditional friendly relations with traditionally friendly states. So we fully support this agreement with the Russian Federation. The second agreement, when it comes to the United States, first of all, I want to say that we want and expect, first of all, political convergence, the improvement of dialogue at a high political level. I don't want to measure today what kind of letter Biden wrote for Meeting, what kind of letter Tramp wrote, I think we have a lot of reasons to respect the Washington Agreement, because we confirm our credibility on the international scene, as a state that is reliable, secure and stable partner and that meets the obligations. I think it's important that the agreement signed by Ambassador Godfrey and the finance minister, because it confirms that the Washington Agreement is being implemented, that the United States has confidence in Serbia, and that's a big signal for investors. What is extremely important is that these guarantee schemes are done as soon as possible because of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. So I think we should continue, of course, working together with the United States, try to get politically close, I repeat, try to improve dialogue at a high level. As for the concrete agreement that we are talking about today, so whoever has the right to what happens during the academic exchange provides space for technological development in Serbia, regardless of what happens in America, regardless of what the patent will be registered there, we will have the right to insight into the patent. What I wanted to suggest, and I hope you'll pass it on to the Minister of Education, Technological Development and Education, I just think program academic exchanges are good. We send our people to perfect, and according to the US visa system, they have an obligation to return to Serbia after two years of using acquired knowledge. We should appeal and appeal to those who are involved in the academic exchange to connect the institutions from which they came from our country with the institutions they were in the United States. As a child, we should use opportunities to perfect our people and we should use these ideas that bring about the acceleration of the academic environment in the creative sense of our country, to think long-term about bringing large educational institutions to us, that is, from the United States to us. To ask the United States to bring its experts, such as guest lecturers, including our scientific institutes into American scientific and technological programs. We may not have expensive and modern equipment, but certainly professional, educated and trained when we have it. The state we think should come up with a program, invest in education, people with a long-term goal. Here's a concrete proposal for the Minister of Education. Thanks, for example, to the president of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia, I must use it as a local patriot, and Western Serbia will not remain a appendix. I'll tell you why I'm doing this dyspression. Western Serbia will not remain a appendix, but will have its own highway connection and that is something that is necessary for investors, because which foreign investor will come to Valjevo or any other western Serbian city if there is no highway connection? Two significant investors will arrive in Valjevo very soon. So the bottom line is that there is no economic without infrastructure development. It's about borrowing, it's true, but it's due not to pay wages and pensions, we're talking about borrowing for the future, and it's gonna come back anyway. Now, I'm going back to education. I think education is the future, or I'm convinced, education is the future. In that sense, everyone's talking, sir, about decentralisation. I think that, in addition to what was done in the field of decentralisation, you have the right opportunity and opportunity, I know that Minister Ruzic is not watching when and whether the mandate will end, but is trying to do the best possible. So you have a chance and a chance to make another step when it comes to decentralisation concrete education. Here, I'll tell you how. A group of local patriots and people who come from Valjev, by playing the case I know, I repeat, Valjevo, because by birth I am from Valjevo, Valjevo has a comparative advantage, because it has a research station called Petnica. So a group of people of profession and calling will propose to try to build a university of western Serbia. I think it's very important for Western Serbia, for all cities and for all the municipalities of western Serbia. You know, Belgrade is once far away from Lyubovija, Belgrade is far away from Rich or Little Zvornik, from which I just came, but there are no other cities. We know that the accreditation process is difficult, it's all clear to us, but with the support of the Ministry, with the support of educated and professional people, who are on Western Serbia territory, with the good will of local self-government, when it comes to infrastructure, this country can cost very little and much more money to remain in this area. I looked at some of the research done by these same people, so what it is that young people in western Serbia are interested in right now, when it comes to basic academic studies. Since Western Serbia is mostly a agricultural area, of course it is the number one agriculture. It's perfectly logical, because Valjevo has one, let's say, of the best agricultural schools in Serbia and it's logical that after that quality agricultural school, they continue studying at the agricultural college, which would, for example, be in Valjevo. The second one of interest is pharmacies, the third one's ecology. I repeat, we have a comparative advantage, with all due respect to all other municipalities and cities, because we have Petnica Research Station, and we have absolutely nothing against the University of Western Serbia, not all three universities have to be in Valjevo, but can be in different cities. But here, very soon you'll get it, I'm fully convinced, a quality initiative and I ask you to think about it. Science and technology parks are a great thing. The moment Mr. Ruzic visits Valjevo, and I hope it will be next week, and there is reason to do so, because we are very grateful for the equipment of the IT classroom of one of the primary schools in Valjevo, we are very grateful for what has been done for the Higher Professional School, because the conditions have been created for the higher education school, the state school, to work and work. So you're going to get a project that I'm also convinced will be quality, think about it, but I'm asking you to try to think about decentralisation of education in the context in which I spoke. I know it can't be done in this term, but it's important to take the first step, let it be for three, and for four, and in five years, but believe me, it's in the interest of western Serbia and it's in the interest of every child who will finish high school in three or four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6198	I thank the People's MP. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6199	Thank you, the Honorable President-in-Office of the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Republic of Serbia, today I will talk about the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States. The initiative to sign the Amending Protocol and supplement the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the US Government on Scientific and Technological Co-operation has been launched by the American side with a desire to extend, not only to extend, but to strengthen and upgrade co-operation in all fields of science and technology. The signing of this Protocol creates a new legal framework for the realisation of bilateral inter-state co-operation in a modern way, with respect to mutual interests, real potentials and current tendencies based on the principles of mutual equality, and in amendments to Annex A, the 2010 Agreement, establishing a reliable basis for the intellectual property area to be created in the course of and co-operation of the arrangements in accordance with the best practice and principles of VIPO, whose full members are both parties. What I must stress, when it comes to modern information systems and modern information technologies that are at stake here today, and given that we are in the midst of a vicious pandemic caused by Kovid – 19, thanks to Serbian President Alexander Vukic, the most modern information system has been created so that for every vaccine against the crown of the virus, which has been obtained, exactly who has received it, when and where it has received it. The new vaccination monitoring system allows everything to be monitored, from the moment the vaccine arrives to the moment each citizen is vaccinated. On a modern system like this, we get commendations from all over the world. Also, what is very important for the citizens of Serbia, but also for the whole world, on the "Torlaku" we start not only with the production of "Sputnika V", but we invest 18m euros, where we start packing vaccines, for flu, tetanus, diphtheria, and we will separate another 20 million for editing rooms, as well as auxiliary facilities. What is most important is that we start producing four-valent vaccines for the flu, which will lead us to the very top of Europe's leaders. As a sovereign state where we have great relations with everyone, I have to single out special relations with the Republic of China, and we'll also start producing the Sinofarm vaccine at the end of the year. The opening of new technology parks in Nis and Novi Sad, as well as across Serbia, enable our young scientists to stay, while more young people, young scientists, return to Serbia as one prospective country with full momentum with President Aleksandar Vukic going to meet the future, unlike the former regime that sold everything that fell under his hands into in vain, to deposit it in tax paradises, where the leader in the technology of devasting Serbian citizens was, of course, Dragan Gilas, with his thieves, Marinik, Šolak, Jeremic, Patrick, who developed a new system of programming, on the money of Serbian citizens, and passed them on to accounts across the planet, i.e. 57 accounts currently known. The people of Serbia see it, because they're marked on the keyboard as "parts", because such programming that destroyed factories, fired thousands of people and turned Serbia into a thief virus and hopelessness won't go away, because the people of Serbia wiped them off the screen of the future and threw them into a dump of history. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6200	I thank Parliamentarian Viktor Jeftovic. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6201	Thank you, Chairman, Mrs. Kovac. The Honorable Chairman-in-Office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Honorable Minister Kisic Tepavcevic, the Honorable State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and built Serbia, are speaking at today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on three very important bilateral agreements for the Republic of Serbia. We are talking about bilateral agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand and between the following countries, which is an agreement with the Russian Federation on phytosanitary inspections, i.e. the protection of plants and quarantine plants, then a bilateral agreement with the United States on science and technological development and co-operation and bilateral agreement with the government of Quebec concerning social security. First I'm going to talk about this deal with the government of Quebec. In fact, Quebec has a slightly different labour law than the whole of Canada. The province has some autonomy, some specialities, especially when it comes to labour law and social law. This Agreement allows for a easier vision of co-operation between our two governments, and especially with regard to our citizens working there, it is estimated that there are thousands of our citizens who work in Quebec and who, thanks to this Agreement, will achieve much easier rights and benefits, especially when it comes to PIO. This agreement is very important. Also with Quebec, but with all of Canada, we inherit good relations, inherit good co-operation, quality co-operation. This co-operation is, above all, in the area of economy, strengthening our exports to Canada. I think that this co-operation is fruitful, that one good co-operation that has the potential for further development and our economic co-operation will certainly be at an even greater level. Canada is one big country in its territory and after the Russian Federation is second in the world and a country that has huge mineral wealth has huge economic and agricultural wealth and opportunities to become an absolute leader in that part of the world. Also, Canada is part of an NAFTA agreement with the United States and the SMD. I am sure that we can achieve much better co-operation, especially when it comes to the economy, the IT sector, but certainly other sectors of the economy. As regards the next Agreement, which is the Agreement with the Russian Federation in the field of plant quarantine and plant protection, it is particularly about the relief in our trade, i.e. in the area of phytosanitary inspection and export of our goods, most often those agricultural products to the Russian Federation. Namely, Russia, or the Russian Federation or Belarus, we also have a similar relationship with it, these are countries which, for their citizens, want, of course, the best, but they want to set certain standards concerning phytosanitary inspection and phytosanitary regulations and rules, which means that they are very strict when importing certain agricultural products, inspections are rigorous and we are trying, but also other countries, let's say many EU members agree these standards. It is therefore very important that through this agreement we allow our farmers, their cooperatives, to export as many agricultural products to Russia as possible, these are apples, other fruits, vegetables, all those products with which Serbia and how it can be placed on that Russian market. This creates a huge opportunity, a huge potential for co-operation and for improving these economic relations. We have great relations with the Russian Federation. They are not only on this economic level, but also cultural relations, political relations. Professor Atlagic spoke of our greats who and how they participated in the construction of the entire Russian history, the whole Russian state and participated in this so-called. The golden age of the Russian Federation. Many Russians, especially "white Russians", and their emigration has built many of them in Serbia, mostly in Belgrade. One of the architects of this magnificent building, Krasnov, is also of Russian origin. I'd like to point out that your year-to-year relationships are getting stronger and stronger. We have excellent co-operation with the Russian Federation, and at that political level Russia is a country that has the right to veto the UN Security Council. She's helped us more than once, and we'll never forget it. Russia is trying to keep these relations on a very, very high level. Let us all remember that, thanks to these good relations, after 175 years, we received part of the “Miroslav’s Gospel ” that is a very important page. There are strong cultural relations between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Serbia. These relationships have a strong, deep, fundamental, historical level, these are language relations, and our language is similar, we usually belong to the same faith. The Russian letter, Cyrillic, and our Cyrillic are very similar, so these relationships have a good basis and I think they will continue to develop in the future. Of course, we must thank Russia, especially Russian artists, Russian painters and Russian voyeurs, especially when it comes to these two key cultural monuments that we built in the previous period, which is primarily a monument to Stefan Nemanja in the Sava Square and the painting of the temple of St. Sava on Vrakar. As for relations with the United States, that is, this bilateral agreement in the field of scientific and technological development and co-operation, I must point out that the United States is very caring for these economic relations. Recently, the Washington Agreement was signed and the DFC opened its office, i.e. a branch in Belgrade, and I am sure these relations in the fields of science, technological development and generally in the field of economy will develop. I would like to point out that this bilateral agreement is in line with the rules of the World Intellectual Property Organisation, which further stresses that it is a very serious agreement, a single agreement that will allow our scientists, above all, to cooperate more strongly and more effectively with the United States, to participate in a number of projects that are important not only for Serbia, the region, Europe, but for the whole world. When we talk about scientists, we are aware that these links between the United States and the Republic of Serbia – Tesla, Pupin, the famous seven scientists who participated in the Apollo 11 mission. They are just some of those who have somehow turned the entire course of American history, not just Serbian, because these people, by their knowledge, by their ability, by their skill, have made the United States a world power. Imagine that in the last century our scientists actively participated in building such a big project as Apollo 11. They contributed to NASA today. Pupin, the man who is, I can't say that he was just our scientist, I'll also say that he was one big diplomat. This is the man who best portrayed this brave Serbian people, the fighting people, who fought in many wars and who always won. This brave people have been given this great honor to have a flag on the roof of the White House next to the American flag. And all this thanks to his skill, that diplomatic skill and ability, but also great relations with the then president of the United States of America, Woodrow Wilson. Of course, there are a number of other actors, politicians, generals, businessmen, businessmen, scientists, many of these American giants have just Serbian origins. It's very important to emphasize. All these bilateral agreements are the result of our successful policy, our successful diplomacy and the efforts of our leadership, especially our President, Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, Minister Nikola Selakovic. These are the results of our successful policy, just these bilateral agreements. But these are also the results of all of our people who have been building both the United States and the Russian Federation and Canada for decades, these people have participated in the construction of the golden age of these countries. We constantly have to in our bilateral relations to emphasize the importance of all our greats who have spent their entire working lives in these countries, building them and making them world powers. Of course, it's, first of all, Russia and the United States. These are the results of our successful policy, these bilateral agreements, and our successful diplomats. Unlike them, ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, unlike them, from 2000 to 2012 we had a dozen of these diplomats, called career diplomats, people who completely destroyed the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in the world. For example, we had a Wolf Jeremiah. This Mr. Vuk Jeremic, he is a man who has been in a key position in the UN in his time. That's the man who was also our foreign minister. This man, I'm free to say, has brought our diplomacy to the level of the most ordinary kindergarten, kindergarten. I'm going to use that term on purpose, and I'm going to say it again, kindergarten. Why? Well, let's all remember how this Vuk Jeremic put up the unfortunate, possible and clumsy, and I'm sure it was malicious, a question asked by the International Court of Justice about Kosovo's independence and the Metohija. That question has ruined us. Thanks to the court's decision, we are now aware of that question, the so - called problem. The independent Kosovo and Metohija are still active today and today we are discussing it, and all thanks to Vuk Jeremic. We are witnessing that Vuk Jeremic is one of the favorite characters in Albanian media and in Albania itself, but also most often in Kosovo and Metohija. When you ask them who your favorite politician is? Then the Wolf of Jeremiah. Why Wolf Jeremy? Here's why. Because of that unfortunate question, the unfortunate, the clumsy, the malice, the evil questions, the questions that have destroyed us. A man like that will never come to power again. Such a man will become part of political history. He's not the only one, call a career diplomat, successful in calling a diplomat, but we have another diplomat named Dragan Gilas. That Mr. Dragan Gilas is a man who likes to travel, you know. That's the man who visited many countries. That man has done a lot for our policy, for our foreign affairs. You know, he's made huge changes. He stole money, pulled money from the pockets of our citizens, from the Belgrade city budget, from the republican budget. All that money that Mr. Dragan Gilas has stored on numerous accounts, on over 50 bank accounts in more than 17 countries in the world. So what is it? Is that some kind of diplomacy? Ladies and gentlemen, this is Dragan Gilas, the man who destroyed our economy, the man who completely devastated Belgrade, the budget of the city of Belgrade. Let us remember that the debt was 1.2 billion euros. It's an unimaginable debt. Imagine, 1.2 billion euros, not talking to numerous affairs that relate to him. That's what my colleagues were talking about, of course, there's a "Multicom Group", there's certainly an affair about the Adi Bridge, numerous of its properties that are unknown to origin, his brother's property, 619m euros. We have talked about this many times in this magnificent building, and this man has completely devastated us when it comes to economics, but also when it comes to foreign affairs. Imagine how much he has brought down the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in the world. Instead of achieving good economic co-operation with those countries, it is more than 17 countries, instead of acting like a real diplomat, working with them, helping his associates to sign some new agreements, opening up some factories with us, investing in Serbia, not doing anything. He buried our money in more than 50 accounts, right in those 17 countries. Now, that's Dragan Gilas, but that's what's come to an end. Thanks to Alexander Vukic and the SNS, things are completely different today. Today Serbia is a country that achieves very good results in the field of economy. We are aware that in the last few years we have achieved the highest rate of economic growth in all of Europe. We are also aware that we are absolute leaders, I can say the champions of vaccination, not only in the space of Europe, but in the space of the whole world. All over the world, we're the minors first when it comes to vaccination. Our citizens have four different vaccines not available, and we are aware that a number of European citizens are coming to Serbia and that they have been vaccinated for free. It's an indicator of a successful, responsible policy, a policy that marks victory, a policy that says there's no more room for thieves like this, no more room for these, call career diplomats, no more room for these people who have completely destroyed our reputation in the world, for the people who have humiliated our country. No more room for Gilas, no more for Jeremic, no more for the other members of that yellow gang. There is room only for a successful Serbia, for a winning Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6202	The word is made by MP Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6203	Thank you. The current assembly of the National Assembly won a large number of draft laws on agreements with different countries in the previous period, and these agreements regulate the relations of our country and those states with which these agreements were signed. Today's agreements with the United States, the Russian Federation and the government of Quebec are certainly a continuation of the practice and determination of our country and this government to co-operate with all countries of the world. Last week, I had the honour to, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I am talking about an agreement to encourage investment between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United States, namely the desire to encourage business activity in Serbia through the International Financial Corporation – DFC, which through capital investments and projects will achieve all these outlined objectives. I'll just remind you that this is an institution that is a representative of the United States and has a $60 billion budget to invest in countries beyond the borders of the United States. With this agreement, we set up a legal framework and set conditions for the start of the work of this institution in Serbia, and thus specifically sent a signal to all private companies from the United States who want to invest and operate in Serbia. We've had different relationships throughout history with the United States. They used to be friendly, sometimes less friendly, but what made them beautiful is that we, people said, always knew where we were. As a state, we want a partnership with the United States and we believe that the role of the United States is essential to peace and stability in these areas, but also to the economic and economic progress of all countries in the region. That's why we're trying to be serious and respect all those agreements that we signed and that we're gonna sign with the United States. Last year, President Vukic in Washington signed a Washington Agreement with then-President Trampo and we managed to promote some of our ideas, ideas of economic co-operation, the idea of Mini Shenghen, but to throw out point 10 of the country's truly wise policy concerning mutual recognition of Serbia and Kosovo. How great a success it is is the fact that it has always been a starting point in the talks between our two countries. In addition to economic and political co-operation with the United States, we must achieve scientific and technological co-operation, and that is also the proposal for today's agreement. It is no shame to learn from those who are in front of us and to apply the knowledge they have applied in their countries and thus prove that they are good and quality, both for these countries and for its citizens. As most Western countries come to Serbia and learn about the model of immunisation we applied, so we also apply the knowledge we consider useful. Of course, there's something to learn from America, because it's really the most advanced country in the field of innovation and their universities and colleges are at the top of the world's lists when it comes to grades. My colleague Marinkovic mentioned earlier that all major American companies have scientific and technological parks, and that is certainly something Serbia should insist on in the future. When it comes to an agreement with the government of Quebec, it primarily concerns social security and benefits between this, when we adopt this agreement, it will primarily have our diaspora, or our countrymen who live and work in this North American state, or province. I have to say as someone who has spent a shorter part of his life working in America, or in the state of Alaska in the Ibeda industry, because it's extremely important to respect, it's extremely important to bring such regulations, because at that time, at that time, I had the opportunity to meet with everything that we often know to say here and mark as cruel American or Western capitalism. When I say cruel, I don't think it's a negative thing. Most of all, he's cruel because of the working conditions that are the way they are, but you know, for as much work as you show and effort and for the results you achieve you'll be paid. What I'm really wearing as a memory is that this American company that we signed a contract with back then in Belgrade has been strictly insisting on respecting the provisions of that contract that we signed and there have been some of our countrymen who didn't like it at one point there, but they really got a one-way ticket and that's something, indiscipline and disrespect for what you signed is something that in America absolutely doesn't respect. I don't have to talk much about what historical and friendly links are between our country and the Russian Federation as much as we have helped through the history of the country and how much help we are now getting in all fields and when it comes to fighting the pandemic and when it comes to protecting our state interests, namely fighting for sovereignty and territorial integrity, fighting for Kosovo and Metohija. But something that makes me extremely happy and satisfied, which just happened today and why Mr Milicevic I know would be very happy, given that the bar track is concerned, that is, during the course of these days, an examination and recording of the state of the bar track, that is, the section from Valjev to Vrbnica, that is, the border with Montenegro, and that is 45 years later, and that is, more precisely, a part of Belgrade to Valjev was reconstructed in 2017, and now we are expected to be reconstructed from Valjev to Vrbnica, and this is indeed a huge job financed from the Russian loan for the modernisation of Serbian railways. It is a project worth almost 21m euros and certainly, given how demanding and significant rail infrastructure it is, for the western part of our country, certainly it is a very important project. I also talked about how much road infrastructure, i.e. road construction, highways, is important for the economic and economic development of all parts of our country, and the area from which I come, or from the Goldibor region of Priboj. I said on that occasion that, I presented the fact that Pritchett last year attracted the largest number of investments per capita, and in the meantime I got a lot of messages both negative and positive about my exposure, but what I have for the sake of truth and for the sake of all Serbian citizens I have a duty to say, what it is that the results of the SNS were in Priboj during the previous period, i.e. from the arrival of SNS to power. So first 100m euros, the car factory Preboj was written off from the factory's debt in such a way that the factory was put on its feet. It is no longer the same factory that could once produce a day on dozens of trucks, but now by co-operation with the military and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia certainly through the dedicated industry what is most important that we have managed to keep a certain number of workers in that factory. In 2016, a free zone was formed and it is one of the fastest growing free zones in Serbia. It currently employs over 500 people, operates by domestic foreign companies such as companies from America, Spain or Turkey. Also, Priboj will receive a new 7m-euro heat this year. Two years ago, the "Desanka Maksimović" Machine and Electrical School was reconstructed and completely renovated. The value of these works was as much as 680 million dinars. In a few days, rural school renovations in Bucharest, which will be converted for nature school, and these funds are also provided from the economy ministry's funds. In the end, I have to say that the average salary in Priboj last year was 48,000 dinars, while only about seven or eight years ago, more specifically in 2013, that average salary was somewhere around, slightly stronger than 20,000 dinars. The prison has always been a picture and an opportunity for Serbia, even in those times that were difficult and behind us, but today there is also a picture and an opportunity for Serbia at a time when we unsustainably grab ahead. What is the definition of all of us, the definition of this country, this government, the president, is to continue this continuity of development throughout Serbia, all of those parts of Serbia that have been neglected in the past to show that we care about each individual and every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6204	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Natasa Ljubisic. You've got 12 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6205	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear members of the government, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this Agreement with the United States and the Agreement with the Russian Federation, we prove that in those areas we have exceptional co-operation with both the East and the West. Once again in a row, Serbia proves it runs an independent foreign policy, exclusively driven by its own interests. We can boast that for the past few years we have built scientific and technological parks in large cities in Serbia. During the former regime, we couldn't even hear that any investment in science and technological development was planned, while the SNS carried it out. This allowed our young people to perfect and develop their ideas in our country, by staying here and building for themselves a better future. Imagine how many schools we would have had, new, basic or medium if we were for those 619m euros, how much Dragan Gilas took from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. How many new schools and secondary and basic ones could be made for the 68m euros we know so far that Dragan Gilas has 53 accounts in 17 countries. The difference between SNS policy and yellow tycoon policy is that SNS invests in a better and better quality life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while Dragan Djilas, while in power, invested exclusively in his own companies and exclusively in his own accounts, placed money on Serbian citizens. As we have led an independent and smart and responsible policy when it comes to the purchase of vaccines, so now we are leading both the wise politics of both the East and the West in all other areas. When it comes to the purchase of vaccines, we are thus the only country available in the region for four different types of vaccines for its citizens. Our citizens can decide on their own which vaccines they want, which vaccine they want to receive. Our country has also helped neighbours in the region by delivering certain amounts of vaccines to them, as well as delivering vaccines to both Northern Macedonia and Montenegro and Republika Srpska and BiH. According to the number of vaccinated inhabitants of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is today the first in Europe. It's a great success of our country. In fact, it is the success of our President Alexander Vukic, who hastily fought with all his strengths both personal contacts and respected contacts and reputation with foreign politicians to ensure that our country from both east and west provides sufficient amounts of vaccines that our citizens can choose on their own with which vaccine they will be vaccinated. At the end of May, our citizens will be rewarded, today we heard from President Alexander Vukic. All who are vaccinated by the end of May of the first dose or from both doses of any vaccine will receive 3,000 dinars of state aid as a reward for responsible behavior. Another evidence that the state is disturbing the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to vaccinate in as many as possible. We prove once again that the lives of our citizens are our first priority. This way I would call on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have so far not been vaccinated to exercise their right and to use this right to choose any of the four types of vaccines, which the right does not have any citizens of Europe, such as Serbian citizens, and to vaccinate and save lives, as well as the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which is still on track and to stay on that path to being the first in Europe to continue at the rate of economic growth. In the end, in the voting day, I will, together with my Parliament group, Alexander Vukić – for our children, support these bill proposals and I will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6206	Thank you. The word has Sandra Christmas's folk emissary. You have seven minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6207	I thank the President of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, representatives of the Government, honourable MPs, above all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at the end of today's debate which was truly exhaustive, comprehensive, what remains as a conclusion is that, indeed, these agreements that are on the agenda today, we have the opportunity to further improve the standard of living for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that is the essence of our work, which is the essence of our existence unlike those of others, which are in the previous days, and I will explain what I am saying very briefly, given that we are not left with the parliamentary group, those of course, who, for the benefit of the citizens as if they have never even heard because they have been there for themselves all the time of their rule. It's a real pleasure today when you're here in the O.R., talking about the standard, the standard of living standards of our citizens, pensioners, the working population, when we're talking about the economy, when we're talking about fighting the crown of the virus. Indeed, each of us MPs who spoke today in this hall, who we come from different sides of our beautiful country, can hear, among other things, in addition to the topic of talking about what is in every community, what is done in every city and what is achieved, and how we are all fighting together for Serbia's well-being, for the improvement that should certainly remain, without it being a flossule, although it is our slogan "For our children", because indeed all of this is the result that we are making is the historical result, headed by Serbian President Alexander Vukic, who is a lion's struggle for every result, which is economically, which I am absolutely certain that we are already making a historical difference, and that only in days, months, the years that come we will actually make a very different face of Serbia, unlike what they have left us since 2012, so far, and beyond, but also in a period that was before. So, I think the historical steps that Aleksandar Vukic makes in international politics, international relations, in the economy, really make a difference which, for how long, I think, write, convince, from which many will come behind us to learn. I am pleased, first of all, that today along the agenda, I have had the opportunity to hear and debate and to mention that 3 May, free media day in Serbia, and I think that no matter what the topic of the agenda is, I as chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information cannot look back on that 3rd May, which is behind us, the day of freedom of the media, in which all those who captured the media in some past time have found an opportunity to come forward. Of course, when I'm talking about Dragan Gilas, I'm talking about what he was about to do that day, he should probably find some mouse hole that he's going to hide in so he doesn't show himself on this particular issue, but of course he's the kind of guy he's no shame and no cheek to show us and to show the citizens of Serbia who's really the boss of all the media in Serbia, he's also found a good opportunity to visit exactly on one of his televisions, on one of his own media, where no matter where one is very, no matter how much, I say, a rich waste of nonsense Dragan Gilas has managed to surprise us and to tell us once again what we all know, and with his in his indiscretion and his mathematical, as he says, that now my colleagues who are naturalists don't mind, since, I think, what Dragan Gilas absolutely humiliated every man who has been trained in his life, and he's said under the number one thing, the first choice of the year. It is primarily one reminder of how much this mathematical brain that he boasts so much, which managed to reach 619 million on one not too smart, but still that other thiefic way, and that's all that the citizens of Serbia and how well they know, but it's interesting that Dragan Gilas forgot to literally mention and remember that he was the one who was in power until 2012 and that those who lost the elections in 2012 were the elections for the thief, because of their unhappiness, and it was them he who led along with others, Boris Tadic, Jeremic, and others from the alliances for destruction, yes, Dragan Djilas. One of the most impressive contributions to the destruction of the Republic of Serbia was his right, but somehow he missed that mathematical brain, as he says, to tell us that it was all his fault. But when I mention this second sentence that really humiliated the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and practically its profession defacto that it was one of the few talented people who managed to add up, that is, what he said to add 20% plus minus 20%, etc. It is clear to us that he had the mathematics he had in his life the opportunity to practice on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, practice on the Serbian state budget, and we understand what this score looked like and what it looked like. This collection is just down to 619 million, dozens of different accounts in tax havens that we are talking about in the previous days and months from this home, but of course both the investigative authorities and other relevant institutions are dealing with and how this topic is. It was he who could never or should have reported on this day, May 3rd, the day of freedom of the media, who thought that by misusing what the media owner in Serbia could talk about and placing another tens of thousands of lies that we can hear every day from his written and printed media, and we are quite sure that this string that Dragan Gilas has with the media does not make freedom of the media. Of course, what was interesting was that Dragan Gilas had forgotten, and you mentioned today, Mr Atlagic, very precise and Verica Barać's report, which decidently spoke about how Dragan Dilas in the field with his colleagues had just abused the media agencies he had at that time in his possession and ruthlessly robbed the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all that while cruised in public functions. I remind you that he was the mayor of Belgrade at a time when under his rule, under different circumstances, compensations were taken from pregnant women, fees for various social benefits. I am sorry that Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, it is not to say in what state the ministry was in until 2012, because I am sure that when she came to the head of the ministry she had the opportunity to carry out one insight and review how the ministry had done business by 2012, as one of the most complex ministries available to most of the budget and which is certainly responsible for a large part of the socially endangered different categories, which only Dragan Djilas left without and the only money beaten while so-called. Malversions that he says didn't exist, because he perfectly knew how to calculate percentages with his precise mathematical brain and how he says that 100 minus 20% is so minus 20% is probably equal to 619 million in Mauritius, Hong Kong and various tax havens. However, what is important to say today, much more important than the subject, I certainly hope that the competent authorities will eventually deal with and come up with this truth about how much money is in secret accounts, how much money and how much secret accounts Dragan Djilas has, but also how much Marinika Tepic as his first associate and how there are a number of malversions behind him in which she participated while she was a rural sports minister. These are all answers, or questions to which there is still no answer. The competent institutions should certainly give us answers to these questions at some point. What is very important to us, and this is that we have both reason and reason to talk much more about how many successes and how many results SNS is, or Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made in the previous period and what is the difference that has been made. So we will, as well as fellow MPs and the previous few hours and several times, have said that tomorrow will be a payment of 30 euros to help pensioners in all the assistance that has been given to citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period, have managed to reach out and those others who feel that help is not needed for citizens, i.e. that this assistance can also be selective and that it is not necessary for everyone. There, no one else to the former governor of the National Bank, Mr. Soskovic, who, I counted on a period of serious dealing with the country's finances, had some more serious comment on how to help citizens, and we know that the Republic of Serbia is one of the countries in Europe if not in a world that has indeed responded well to the health crisis caused by the coronary virus, as well as finance, as well as health measures, that I do not repeat, I do not have much time left. The fellow Members of the people certainly mentioned it today. So what's very important to say is that we don't select citizens to be important, irrelevant, those they have and those they don't have. We believe that everyone in this crisis has been in some way affected. The one who doesn't need the money won't look for it. There are also how the people to whom this assistance was given during the previous period, which will be paid to the pensioners tomorrow means. I'm very sorry that some former DS officials, tycoon organizations can't understand this. They can't understand, because they've never been in real contact with the people, in real touch and conversation with the citizens, because if they were, they'd know that any help, especially at this time when help is needed and how everyone needs it. And that the state of Serbia stood behind every pensioner, behind every unemployed but also those who needed economic assistance. Besides, we're developing infrastructure. We had a chance here to adopt a budget rebalance that just referred to the investment paper. You heard today that Serbia's president said certain projects that were planned during a future period, such as a fast road stop for Belgrade-Zrenjanin, will be launched in the coming period. You saw the open works on the French corridor. Moravia corridor is making great progress. In addition to the good news we received from Brussels, we also received news that the Belgrade-Nis railway will be built further towards northern Macedonia and with the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor, quick traffic from Pozharec, then from Gradišta to Golubac, will be built. We do not need to talk about how much tourism will help this in this part of Serbia, not to mention how much it will create new jobs and give an opportunity to open new companies, new factories that will have the opportunity to further develop in Serbia. You certainly saw that of the German partners, the Japanese who are and are very careful about their investments, they also found good investments in Serbia. One of the largest investments of the German company is located in Panchev, the other of our Japanese good friends is located in Tojo Tyres, India. Serbia is progressing, Serbia is stronger and Serbia will never again allow itself to be blackmailed by certain tycoons like Dragan Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6208	Thank you. No more Members' lists have been reported. Who else has the president, or authorized representatives? Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6209	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and, above all, citizens and citizens of Serbia, before us three other agreements in a series discussed by MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly and they confirm only one thing, which is that Serbia is defined and always ready for co-operation. I'm sure I don't have anything new to say on the subject of an agreement that's been discussed all day. But there's something that's not new, and I want to say it. I missed, unfortunately for me, a serious percentage of the discussion that took place today, but I have no doubt that you explained to the citizens of Serbia why we would support the proposed agreements in the voting day. I missed it because I was at a event that wasn't less important. I will remind the Serbian public, as they reminded me today, who Milos Cirkovic is. A forester from the village of Belo Polje near Peći. Today, in Mali Zvornik, his colleagues from the "Serbian Forest", director Igor Braunovic, were the first to discover the monument. Milos Cirkovic is a forester who remains to defend his threshold, remains to defend his post and die, but is alive. If he was alive today, his colleagues showed retired army generals, at the time the SRJ, who defended their country until the end of the bombing, and then, after an emergency procedure, retired even though they weren't in retirement years. Milos Cirkovic told his brother and his parents – you go, I won't. That was the name of the event that was dedicated to him today. Very emotional and very difficult. His family attended her, but his father, Miljko Korican, is the priest, you will remember him, who with the Metropolitan Amphilohi, collected all the victims of the terrorist KLA in Peća and surrounding villages and throughout Kosovo and Metohija. All this is saddened, but it is even sadder when you read the announcement of a Kosovo government that will launch a genocide suit, they say, against Serbia before the end of next year. Whatever you are, calling yourself a state, you who call yourself a government in that improvisation, you must learn two things. You can't sue anyone for genocide while there are people like Milos Cirkovic. You can't sue anyone for genocide when it's been known that for 15 days, like angry dogs, you've been sneering at a house where there was only one man. He had a weapon, yeah, it's true. The rest of the victims are behind him, yes, and that's true. I am very proud of the fact that I come from the same city that Milos Ćirković lived in, but not less than I am proud of the Pribo which he came from and fought for our Metohija as if he were born in it, the late Vitomir Shalipur, not less than Dejan Prelevic, not less than Mirko Radunović, and I could count it this way for days. Why did I define myself to talk like this at the end of this day? Because I really think it's important that all those who expect us to agree under any pressure to any "non-paper" exist or not, must first remember that we are the country that has defined ourselves as a European path, that we are a country that is friendly towards everyone, but that we are a state and a people who know what the threshold is. Don't expect us to close our eyes on that fact. Do not expect us to have pressure that you will exert on anyone and that they will succumb to that pressure. And don't expect us to have amnesia on our victims, especially when you remind us daily how much you can improvise your own. It wasn't Milos Cirkovic who was big just because he stayed in Kosovo and Metohija, but because he was very aware that he was dying, and I'm saying this because of those 200,000 displaced people who never came back, who went away so they wouldn't be dead, which nobody's talking about today. And I'm not accusing the EU, and this is not my charge for any of them, this is my reminder that there are still some people living in central Serbia who have been kidnapped by childhood, youth, houses, cemetery, estates, and I recently talked about it, 56% of the country has been mistreated for 21 years. She took the river Drin today from Mali Zvornik the story of Milos Ćirkovic, and she took a pirate song written to him by a colleague who works in "Serbia". Milos went into oblivion, called him the 21st century bountiful, and I think they're absolutely right. I'm saying this before you, honourable fellow MPs, because I think every one of our Milos deserves more. My speech was a local-patriot speech, he did now concern a city. There are no villages in Kosovo and Metohija that have no Milos, who have no such story. There's not one of my colleagues who comes from Kosovo and Metohija who couldn't tell me what I'm saying today. And there must be no Serbian child who will not know this story. I'm especially glad the Minister of Education is here today. I'm also glad she was recently Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. Milos Cirkovic must be part of our children's textbook. He must be taught, he must be written. He wasn't the general who won the battle, but he was a Serb who defended his threshold. Let him stay as a science, not that he should argue with the neighbours, not that Milos Ćirkovic wanted, none of us wanted to. And we didn't fight our neighbors, we were killed by a terrorist U.K. And today, someone in that event counted six Albanians, and I'm sorry that I don't have those names, which were also foresters, who were killed by their countrymen in 1998, before the bombing began. When I'm talking here, even though I'm entitled to a speech that might be more emotional, which maybe someone would call nationalistic, no, I'm really talking about fighting justice over injustice and who knows which time I'm stressing that this story of mine is a kind of appeal for one thing -- let's not look at the same thing from two different angles, let's not when it comes to improvised victims having empathy, and real push under the carpet as if they've never been. Let's not, because it remains a tree monument to Milos Cirkovic in Mali Zvornik, standing next to Drina, a lot of people will see it, a lot of people will hear that story. Drina is a fast river and someone said today - the spine of Serbia. She doesn't need to be underestimated. So, distinguished colleagues, I mentioned Milos Ćirkovic. I've got another obligation I'm going to do anyway, but not today. It's a good thing we have an agreement with all the people and all the countries that are our traditional friends, which are both the United States and the Russian Federation. Serbia has never attacked anyone, Serbia has always defended itself, has rarely defended Europe as well. Now, this Serbia that defended all of Europe and then in 1912 was a Serbian peasant, it was the same one, Milos Cirkovic, who may have been a forester somewhere. So when we talk about an agreement with the United States on scientific and technological co-operation, there is no dilemma that everyone knows and who Nikola Tesla is and who Michael Pupin is, there is no need to talk about it myself, but it is important to know that the country of Nikola Tesla and Michael Pupin also has Milos Cirkovic, and several million of them. It is the obligation of the MPs to assist the leadership of the state, above all the president, in the days ahead of us to defend the only obligation we have to defend, which is our Serbia and all of us in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-05-0.u6210	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? (No) I am concluding a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 5 to 7 of the agenda. We'll be back tomorrow at 10:00. As I said, the first debate on the choice of judges, and then the debate in detail on the draft laws and at the end of the afternoon debate vote. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 10th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 118 MPs present at this time, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
