ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the ninth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 117 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provided for the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. So I'm asking you to put your cards in the MPs to determine the exact number. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that at this point, 140 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice, in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The Unsullied Copper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11190	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens. Let me first express my condolences to the family of the deceased Milutin Mrkonjic and SPS. I request a notice from the MUP about whether the trafficker from Šapca Dusko Prokic committed a crime when on Saturday 27, he was driving a bug in the highway, when he encountered an illegal blockade, and when Zelenovići, Djilas and Marinika's batinashi lynched him, inflicting multiple severe bodily injuries, broken nose, ribs, severe eye injury, which caused him to operate on VMA? Is it possible that the lynch mob may have committed some crime in the lynching of Prokic and the blockade of the highway? I'll remind you that Gilas' media from the party, the beatings make heroes and the victim a criminal? Do you become a criminal when you're lynched by Gilas' beatings? Does the hero become that Gilasovian who lynchs the laborer's baggerist? If the manager Prokic had turned the pager on the other side, would he have been a hero for Gilas scum? Baggerist Joe was named a hero on October 5, 2000 even though Jasminka Milosevic died on October 5, 2000 when she was run over by a badger? Ah, the Duggerist Dushan was named a criminal by the same scum. It's Bork's bloody shirt, and it's not about Dusk's life or his eye. What a terrible double arches. Second question. I ask the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, whether they reacted in the case of a jubilee 60th attack on the SNS premises on Sunday 28th when, as part of the Gilasovci weekend of violence and false environmentalists, the completely broken premises of the municipal board of SNS Novi Belgrade on Ledin. There's a lot of material damage done. Since Gilas returned to politics, since 2018 the number of attacks on SNS has increased. This kind of primitiveism and violence, all together, is not almost recorded in the recent history of political life. And if this is supported by tycoons and Gilas and Solak, he testifies to hysterical fraud in calling for the blockades of Belgrade and Serbia, support for the lynching that continues to come from the Gilasov media. Let us remember the dark past when Hitler first passed laws that prevented the Jews from moving freely, and if the Jews were to break it then Hitler's beatings would have hit them. I'm asking the Protector and the Trustee, which is why they haven't responded once in 60 cases of an attack on the SNS premises? Last question. I want to congratulate Danil Vukic's birthday again yesterday. Unfortunately, members of the Association of Criminal Association decided yesterday to congratulate him, under the quote, on his birthday, on a new lie, on his new spin. That is why I am asking the FSS if Danilo Vukic, agent, manager of International Sports Office and whether he is engaged in the sale of football players Vlahovic. I will stress that the mentioned agency has denied the untrue allegations of Italian, Gilasovska Press, quotes the agency's statement – Danilo Vukic is not engaged in any way in the International Sports Office, nor has he ever been, and therefore he is not an agent of footballer Dusan Vlahovic. He listed the director of the agency, Ristic. Dragan Djilas, what happened and Dragan Solak is probably money through their connections and via Director Jadranka Drinić, who has been on the run for three years now and has been unavailable to our competent authorities, they have probably managed to place this fake news from here in the Italian newspaper "La Republic". They pushed one lie that President Vukic's son, Danilo's manager, an agent of a football player, even though it's generally known that he's not and that he works at a sports agency, as he doesn't. That everything is a lie and spin proves the indicative fact that the text in the Italian list was published almost two months ago, October 8, and that the Gilasovski media in the joint criminal enterprise, the lie, two months old, by command, order and agreement, decided to publish yesterday's birthday for Danil Vukic. This clearly speaks of the intention to dehumanize young Danilo to the end. Up until now, he's been declared a football hooligan, a criminal, a member of a criminal clan, a rich man who shares a bag of money, simply trying to make him look guilty, a permanently suspicious face of modern Joseph K. Gilasov media gang stalking Daniel, a real problem, and when he's in a public place in a bar watching a game, he's being stalked in a wine shop, he's being sent by pointless black troikas, alleged controls in a wine store, the control of organs that have nothing to do with wineries. It's all spin, it's making his day-to-day worse, it's jeopardizing his safety and his life. The aim of the joint criminal media enterprise is to destroy President Vukic by destroying members of his family, in the first place son of Daniel and brother Andrej. This time, Danila is trying to portray as a rotten rich man because in the texts, they subdued and viciously mention the commission of footballers Vlahovic, who has nothing to do with Danil, which is allegedly three to five million euros, suggesting a lie that Danilo will have millions of euros. Shame on you! I know, there's been an election campaign, but - Long live Serbia, we're going to win! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11191	Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives are answering for a word anymore, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Milan Urosevic. Dear People's MPs, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf, representatives of the European Union delegation to the Republic of Serbia and representatives of the National Convention in the EU, who are accompanying the session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly. We invite you to welcome our esteemed guests. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure require the National Assembly to decide on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate. People's MP Bojan Torbica, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he suggested that the session's agenda be complemented - a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica, on 16 November 2020. The word has Bojan Bag, three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11192	Thank you. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, I again appeal to you to support the inclusion in the agenda of today's session of the Committee on the Education of the Commission for the Investigation and Determination of the number of victims of NATO aggression in 1999, and there is indeed a lot of reasons for this. During the 20th century, the Serb people fought for freedom fought six wars, defending their freedom and sovereignty, and once in those six wars, the Serb soldier was not an aggressor and did not attempt to conquer a pedal of foreign territory, but each time defended his homeland, his house and his hearth. There is no way that the state of Serbia and we in this parliament can ever repay thousands of heroes who during these wars laid their lives on the altar of freedom. There is no way, there is no order, there is no recognition that can be a fair compensation for their sacrifice, for their lost lives, for their youth spent in trenches on the defending motherland. Also, there is no word of comfort to families who have lost their loved ones during these wars, who have paid the price of our freedom as innocent victims. There is even less justification, above all, for us in this House, which we have not yet established a complete and final list of the dead and wounded and innocently injured during any of these wars. As much as we knew to be proud of our heroes, of their actions, we knew on the other hand, and we know that we are going over the innocent victims that the Serbian people have given through history. We often knew that we were angry with others for disrespecting the innocent victims of our people, even though we ourselves were unable to record them completely and document them, both their existence and their tragic death. So we should not be surprised why some people humiliate us by reducing the number of victims, mocking their tragic fates, equating sacrifice and execution. And therefore, we should not be surprised why the murder of about 2,500 Serbs from Bratunc, Srebrenica and Central Podrinj is neither a crime worth a single tear nor a single word of apology to at least one Bosniak leader, the killing of about 3,500 Bosniaks from the same territory, massacre, genocide and how they all don't call it. Therefore, we should not be surprised that because of our negligence, Sarajevo is no doubt a day today, after more than 25 years of the end of the BiH conflict, still one of the largest well-covered and well-guarded Serbian strategic sites. Therefore, we should not be surprised why the public is not familiar with the fate of the Sarajevo Serbs and with the fate and everyday murders, arrests, robberies, prisons and camps that were the cruel reality of the Serbian nation's citizens. Lists and publications with victims' names so far contain data from more than 5,700 dead people and about 900 people whose fate is uncertain, so a total of more than 6,600 Sarajevo of Serbian nationalities that tragically ended during the war conflicts. However, these lists, like all other lists of victims of Serbian nationality, are not final, yet the families of the deceased who have not been included in the lists appear. The final balance of Serbian victims of this city will hardly ever be made up. It is hardly likely that the public will ever know the names of Serbs killed in 126 state and private concentration and prison camps in this town, camps where only prisoners were Serbs. It should not be surprising, therefore, that only during the first year of the war in eight months, from April to December 1992, more Serbs were killed in Sarajevo than during the entire World War II and the rule of Pavelic's NDH. Neither today nor then many graves... (President: Bojan, you've run out of three minutes.) )......................................................................................................... Not marked and intoxicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11193	I didn't want to cut you short on the subject you're talking about, but let's get back to the vote. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total -149 for -14, did not vote - 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mirsad Hodzic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi, Selma Kučević, Nadija Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami, on 9 June 2021. MP Mirsad Hodzic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11194	Respected, Srebrenica genocide was committed in July 1995. The genocide consists of mass persecution, rape and killing of Bosniaks. 8.372 Bosniaks were killed. The genocide was carried out under Ratko Mladic's command. This is the biggest mass persecution and crime on the ground of Europe since World War II. Last week I heard here in parliament from colleagues who say without shame – Ratko Mladic is not a criminal, he is a hero. The International Court of Justice has spoken. He was convicted of genocide. Here in this House, the International Court of Justice is denied. What messages they send to minority nations from this congregation. I propose that today be put on the agenda of the Srebrenica resolution and thus show little respect for victims of peace and good relations between the current and future generations of the Bosniak and Serbian people. Instead, today in downtown Belgrade, this war criminal is glorified and drawn up by murals, and when the entire civilized world condemns such behaviour, instead of removing the murals and showing respect for the victims. Those to whom Ratko Mladic is an excuse for an excuse in an inappropriate comparison between Acif Efendija and Ratko Mladic, it is only an excuse to celebrate Ratko Mladic. The goal of the Srebrenica genocide resolution is to condemn the most strongly, but also to ban any denial of genocide and the splendor of convicted war criminals. Acif Efendija was a National MP in the Assembly of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians and a National MP in the Assembly of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the head of the cut. In World War II, he organised the defense of all citizens of Novi Pazar from the Chivalry of the Chetniks Draža Mihailovic, who issued a declaration to his units to clear the Lim Valley through the Cave and Chakore of non-Serb living. Acif Efendija did not go to either the King or Belgrade or Rask. He defended and defended all citizens of the New Market. If it wasn't for people like that, then there might have been a Srebrenica. If you truly want a "open Balkans", where all nations will live in mutual respect and respect, you must separate criminals from the normal Serbian people. Acif Efendi was convicted of a mistrial due to alleged co-operation with the occupiers. Well, Acif Efendi did not sign the capitulation, but was signed by the government of Cvetkovic-Macek. At the same time, we have that this government has rehabilitated Draž Mihailovic although thousands of Bosniaks, Serbs and other peoples have been killed under his command. You're giving him monuments all over Serbia. If you think you can build a Serbian flower to haunt and shed the blood of other nations in the 21st century, you're wrong. If you do not include this item in the agenda, we will not participate in any further work of this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11195	Okay. Let's move on. You know, we haven't opened the session yet, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure and replicas and everything else. I'm putting this proposal to the vote to supplement the agenda. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 148, for – four, against – 21, did not vote - 123. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he suggested that the session's agenda be complemented -- a motion for a resolution on crimes in and around Srebrenica from 1992 to 1995, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 June 2021. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my predecessors have forgotten only to say that their Aqif Blut Hadjiahmetovic was decorated by Adolf Hitler, a Nazi leader, by the Iron Cross. That's enough talking about their hero. I ask myself, did anyone die of natural causes in Srebrenica between 1992 and 1995? That's what I'm right about. And if he died, was he buried past that Memorial center in Potocari? The crimes in and around Srebrenica, according to my resolution, are linked to each other. Had there not been a crime against Serbs from 1992 to 1995, it would probably not have been revenge and revenge in July 1995. I regret the Bosniak victims who were mostly members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's army. I repeat, revenge and revenge are not justice. Have any of those who insist on genocide ever regretted the Serbian victims? I am a descendant of Risticevic and Todorovic, one of whom no longer lives in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the house he lived in 1991. There are Muslims in those houses. As a descendant of fathers, grandfathers, chucundes, who were wiped out in Gorazda municipality from land books, whose village was burned to the ground, I ask if we too have the right to mourn our victims and have they ever regretted these victims and am I genocidal, and they multiethnically, although they played football with Serbian heads during the war? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not Tadic to agree that 30,000 Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina have committed suicide or died of food poisoning and that Serbian victims are not worth regrets and tears. I am not Boris Tadic to agree to such a construction and yet to apologize. We don't agree to crimes without punishment, but no punishment without crime. We do not agree to genocide without genocide just to create a means of uniting Bosnia and Herzegovina and justify the aggression and bombing of Serbs, which was without reason, to get rid of Serbs. The verdict on genocide, the verdicts of Mladic and Oric are not proof of Mladic's guilt, or of Oric's innocence, but of the guilt of politically-trained courts. A genocide was committed in Yugoslavia, Bosnia and Herzegovina during the 20th century, so it was a mention of the Serb people's skeletons. Three million were killed, three million were displaced. The number of Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been reduced from 44% to 31%, and the Muslim population has increased from 30% to 50%. The territory of the Serbian people has been gnawed and reduced to a small Serb who, these years, has dared to rise economically and valuablely. A message to the Sarajevo authorities and those who insist on genocide in Srebrenica: You probably don't regret the lost lives of your countrymen. You wear this story of genocide as a salt that you pour on the wounds of those who have lost loved ones on either side or three, to politically sew and heat up hatred between not so long ago warring nations. You do not want peace, but a unitary Bosnia or a restoration of war, which we Serbs do not agree to. The message to the Bosniaks is, "We wish you all the best." The message to the Serbs is: We are one people, and while we are, Serbia will not give you. That's why Serbia is big, valuablely large, and when it's territorially small. A message to the international community, the part led by Britain and Germany: If you are looking for partners for peace in the Balkans, we are Serbs, but if you are looking for subjects with whom you will destabilise the Balkans, don't count on us and don't send the villa. All to crush us under that tarabic plum, we will be a great persecuted people who have not persecuted anyone. From 12 apostles, Jesus spread love for others, ours is to spread love for ourselves and our country first, not spreading hatred for others. No one in Serbia and the environment should be ashamed that he is not a Serb, but should not be ashamed because he is a Serb. The genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina was but above Serbs and the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11197	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 146 for – 31, did not vote – 115. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 192, paragraphs 3, and in accordance with Article 157. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that a joint single search be carried out on: a proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2021, which submitted 15 MPs and a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – for our children". Does the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 147 for – 141 did not vote – six. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 146 for – 141 did not vote – five. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2021, which was submitted by 15 MPs; 2. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – for our children". We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Before we begin the debate, I would just like to inform you that, as we planned, the debate should take up to 1800 hours and at 1800 hours to be the time to vote, in order to complete this session today. That means, since we left later, there won't be this break that's common between 2:00 and 3:00 a.m. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: Ana Brnabic, Prime Minister Jadranka Joksimovic, European Integration Minister Gordana Comic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue and Maja Popovic, Minister of Justice. I ask the MPs' groups that, unless they have already done so, they immediately apply for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 92(2) and Article 192(3) and Article 157(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint single search on two points of the agenda. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Representatives of the proposer in this regard, since it is about the Committee, or 15 MPs, whose name Elvira Kovac applied for a word, and the other representative of the Proposer is Mr Martinović. Government representatives will be given the word after the proposal's representative. Elvira Kovac has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11198	Thank you. Dear President, the Presidency, Presidents and members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament and honored guests, the report by the European Commission on Serbia's progress in EU accession processes for 2021, essentially systematises the three enlargement methodologies and policies implemented so far. The first one, I remind you, was from gaining candidate status and starting negotiations with the negotiation process until 2015. The second was from 2015 to 2020, when a new methodology was implemented that assessed the situation and progress in the negotiation processes with two five-volent scales, and now, the third revised methodology, which has been implemented, as we know, since this year, through the evaluation of progress and through six clusters, which are all the negotiating chapters that we have discussed so far. In the broader context of European integration, it is unequivocal that now is the time to redefine the EU enlargement policy, but also to strengthen the credibility of the European integration process. For Serbia, the credibility of the European integration process means, under one – respecting progress in implemented reforms, under two – supporting the development of different regional co-operation models, under three – helping to implement concrete infrastructure and economic projects and under four – respecting our European heritage and traditions through participation in the Conference on the Future of Europe. Certainly, the tone of this year's Progress Report is a shift compared to previous reports, as the emphasis in the negotiation process is placed on partnership, support and the future. In addition to introducing a new methodology, the Report apostrophes and the importance of respect for previous policies and documents, in particular, e.g. Recommend point 1. The Zagreb Declaration of 6 May 2020 on the importance of proactive and objective communication on the EU, which is the main political and economic partner of the Republic of Serbia, then the importance of the Berlin process. The summit's conclusions in Sofia, which was in November 2020, are mentioned when six Western Balkan states, including Serbia, adopted the Declaration on the Common Regional Market and the Green Agenda for the Western Balkans. With respect to continuity, the European Commission's report also connects the conclusions of the so-called The Hill of Declaration, since 6 October this year, is, therefore, the freshest, with all previous recommendations. The report highlights three key elements of negotiations with the EU, of course, reforming the rule of law, a comprehensive normalisation of relations with Kosovo and standards. In addition to a general assessment that Serbia's European integration marks moderate preparation with limited progress, the 2021 report concluded that in the first half of this year, the government of the Republic of Serbia has set reforms related to the EU and the rule of law as its priorities and has reached a balance between progress in the areas of rule of law and normalisation of relations with Kosovo on the one hand and progress in other chapters with the other. Advocacy and progress in reforms carried out between June 2020 and June 2021 are being taken into account. In particular, the report highlights what we are, of course, looking forward to the role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, firstly in leading the constitutional reform process for the independence of the judiciary, harmonising with the legal assets of the EU through the adoption of laws transposing the EU directives, harmonising with GRECO recommendations, in particular mentioning the activities of the Committee on European Integration, the conduct of both interparty dialogues, etc. It is not surprising, therefore, that the most mentioned word in the European Commission's report this year is the 112-fold parliament. With today's debate, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia fulfils the resolution's commitment to the role of the National Assembly on the principles and negotiations in the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, which was adopted on 16 December 2013. I would remind all of us that the first debate on the proposal for a conclusion of the European Integration Committee on the European Commission's 2020 Report was held here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so the first plenary, 27 and 28 December 2020. Let's take a look at the grades. When we talk about standards, progress is assessed, i.e. the degree of implementation of EU legal flows in our legislation and the state of preparation, i.e. capacity for the adoption of European legal fluids. As we know, Serbia has opened Cluster 1 – The basics of the accession process, and in this report the European Commission has recommended the opening of two more clusters – 3, Competitiveness and inclusive growth and 4, Green Arrangements and Sustainable Connected. Clusters 3 and 4 cover 12 negotiating chapters in total. During the reporting period, negotiating positions for four chapters – Chapters 10, 15, 16 and 19 were adopted, while only one negotiating position was adopted in 2020, but significant for the negotiating chapter 27. The report points out as positive achievements that the number of reforms has been increased, constitutional reform has been launched to strengthen judicial independence through intensive consultations with the Venice Commission, accepted recommendations by GRECO and made, done, adopted a revision of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It certainly commends the government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's engagement in inter-party dialogue. If this is indeed a political moment to redefine and articulate the EU enlargement policy, it explicitly states in the European Commission's Report that it is imperative to move from word to action, for example, through the active involvement of our partners in the Conference on the Future of Europe. It is a moment to redefine that the term "European perspective" is filled with content and that we know what our European future is, as there is no future for Serbia without the EU, we are confident that there is no future for the EU without Serbia. In this regard, the Report cites recommendations: to continue reforms in the area of rule of law, fighting organised crime and better results in investigations and judgments, fighting corruption, to work on protecting freedom of expression, less incendiary language and less attacks on political unsuspecting in the National Assembly, more work on the topic of social dialogue, to create a favourable environment for civil society, to provide freedom of the media, to prosecute war crimes before domestic courts, etc. The 2021 report, as I mentioned, crosses the assessment by chapters and clusters. Key word - limited progress is mentioned 62 times. The essence could be entered - moderate preparation with limited progress. The assessment of "restricted progress" is given for 15 chapters, including the most significant chapters 23 and 24, as well as Chapter 27 — the environment. We must mention that, compared to last 2020, Chapter 23 "limited progress" means progress, a shift to better, as the assessment for this chapter was then "very limited progress". The dominant assessment of the situation in the areas under negotiation for 2020 is even for 22 chapters of 35. The 2021 report's “good state of preparation” received six chapters. "A certain level of preparation" is an assessment of five chapters in the report for 2021, which are chapters 23, 24, 27, 11 and 33. In 2021. "good progress" is an assessment for four chapters, while there has been no progress in all three chapters, which are 4 – freedom of movement of capital, 9 – financial services and 28 – consumer protection and health. When all these estimates are numerically expressed, Serbia has, as has already been said in media for 2021 on a scale of 1-5, received an average score of 2.8. In the process of reform, improving and strengthening the rule of law, the role of the National Assembly is crucial, and the independence of the judiciary is a pillar of the rule of law. In order to ensure the independence of the judiciary and legal certainty, as we know, it has been approached by amendments to the Constitution aimed at greater independence of judges and greater independence of public prosecutors. The National Assembly adopted the proposal the day before yesterday and a referendum was called for January 16th. In the first of 2025 and in the now revised or adopted in July 2020, the Action Plan for Chapter 23, task number one and the first transitional criterion is the adoption of the new provisions of the Constitution concerning the independence of the judiciary. In the new extension methodology, as we know, the focus is on transitional criteria, as key indicators of progress, and in the case of basic fundamental chapters 23 and 24, we are talking about a total of 98 transitional criteria, 48 criteria for Chapter 23 and 50 of Chapter 24. All of these criteria value the ability to open all six clusters. The new revised methodology also predicts that no chapter can be closed until the transitional criteria are met. As we know, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Code of Conduct of People's MPs in December last year, and amendments and additions to the Code of Conduct of People's MPs were adopted in September of this 2021, in order to bring them into line with GRECO recommendations. Speaking of the National Assembly, there are some commendations in the report that it is, for example, A significantly reduced application of the emergency procedure to 9%, 19% in 2020, of the 133 draft law 12 was adopted by emergency procedure, while in the first half of this 2021 of the 75 draft law, which we put on the agenda, only two went by emergency procedure. In April 2021, the Committee on European Integration also discussed the European Parliament Resolution in Serbia with the virtual participation of Mr Bilchik, the European Parliament's own rapporteur. The Committee on European Integration regularly holds meetings with the participation of the Ministry of European Integration. Surely, an important piece of credit for the recommendations for opening clusters three and four belongs to us, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Committee on European Integration. Without the adoption of negotiating positions and laws in line with EU law, there would be no shift in the negotiation process, as unfortunately has not been in the past two years. Assessing progress by clusters, among clusters two – the internal market, which is key to preparing the Republic of Serbia for the EU's internal market and of great importance for the development of the common regional market, progress has been made. The harmonisation of legislation in the area of company rights, freedom of movement of the workforce and the establishment and freedom to provide services, but there was no progress in the freedom of movement of capital, financial services and consumer protection and health. Serbia, when it comes to economic criteria for EU membership, has made some progress and has been moderated either at a good level of preparedness for the development of the market economy, a functional market economy. Serbia is moderately prepared to deal with competition on the EU market. Cluster five – resources, agriculture and cohesion policy includes policies related to EU structural funds and strengthening the capacity to assume commitments stemming from future EU membership. As regards cluster three – competition, social inclusion and economic growth, the report estimates that progress has been made in the areas of tax policy, in particular by removing discriminatory taxes on imported alcohol, social policies and employment, industrial policy, science and technological development and education. Cluster four – green agenda and sustainable connection. Serbia has met the criteria for opening energy areas, in particular by adopting a road map to separate the gas sector's work and has made progress on road safety and rail reform. Serbia has also adopted the Climate Act, a package of laws on the energy sector, including new laws on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. Special attention in the Report is paid to regional co-operation and reconciliation policies. It highlights, of course, the importance of bringing the common foreign and security policy, regional reconciliation and stabilisation into line. Through cluster six - foreign relations, it is estimated that there have been no major changes in Serbia's alignment with the EU's common foreign and security policy. In 2020, the degree of consistency fell and was all to 56%, while by August 2021 it increased to 61%. Serbia remains committed to good neighbourly relations and actively participates in regional co-operation. The moment in which the EU is redefined is the right moment to redefine the Balkan state's co-operation policy. At the end of July, the "Mini Schengen" initiative was transformed, renamed "Open Balkans", a borderless area, which provides, under one, freedom of movement of people, goods and services, freedom of access to the regional market, as well as co-operation to protect against natural disasters. On 7 September this year, the EU Council approved around 14.2 billion euros in pre-accession financial assistance -- IPA three for the period from 2021 to 2027, which is intended for the reform of processes in the Western Balkans and Turkey. This support package, which has started to be applied retroactively since 1 January 2021, will for the first time be allocated, divided according to thematic continents. Users will be supported in implementing the necessary political, institutional, legal, administrative, social and economic reforms to comply with EU values and gradually adapt to EU rules, standards, policies and practices. For many years, the report in the European Commission's report reiterates the same sentence that the legislative and institutional framework for the protection of human rights has been established, but that it is necessary to work on its effective implementation. Human rights institutions should be strengthened, their independence guaranteed through security of both financial resources and human resources. The European Commission's recommendations are to improve freedom of expression in addition to efforts. Serbia should meet the 2020 recommendations and, in particular, strengthen human rights institutions, adopt and start implementing a new anti-discrimination strategy, demonstrate visible progress throughout the country in the effective exercise of the rights of members of national minorities, which would be verified through credible records conducted in various databases. In order to ensure the rule of law and the protection of human rights, and acting under the revised Action Plan for Chapter 23, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Protector of Citizens, as amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance. In May 2021, a law on the ban on discrimination, on gender equality, was adopted, which is in line with secondary sources of EU law. A new strategy on violence against women and domestic violence was adopted in April 2021, and the National Strategy for Gender Equality on 14 October this year. The report stresses that the legal framework for respect and protection of minority rights and cultural rights is in line with the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, but that Serbia should meet the recommendations contained in the fourth opinion of the Council of Europe Advisory Committee on the application of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. The recommendations, among other things, say that there is a need to promote a multicultural, intercultural perspective in education, including the development of a community exchange programme and to develop multilingual and multilingual education models, to increase representation of members of national minorities in public administration, to include as much as possible minority members in the census as possible, to publish information on minority languages, to promote the importance of language knowledge in official use in public administration. Further, to strengthen resources allocated to the National Minorities Budget Fund in line with economic opportunities, to economically strengthen areas where minorities live. The European Commission stresses that it is important to establish registers of data collection and work on reviving interethnic relations in order for the entire society to work on the integration of minorities despite the legal obligation that the national composition of the population must be taken into account, national minorities remain under-represented in the public administration. The report stresses the importance of introducing a register of civil servants with the possibility of free national declaration and is expected to be applied as soon as possible. Progress in minority education and the issue of school textbooks in the languages of national minorities is evident. A new teaching programme for learning Serbian, as an immaterial language, has been adopted. And to slowly conclude this opening statement on the report itself, I mentioned that for Serbia, the credibility of European integration means, among other things, respecting our European heritage and tradition. It seems too high to explain that the Republic of Serbia is part of European space and civilization, that the mutual influences of different cultures are visible in language, literature, architecture, style of dress, wedding and everyday customs, eating and drinking. Serbia is part of European history and we have always had friends in Europe. I remind you that a great writer, pacifist and humanist, Viktor Igo, wrote in 1876, so 145 and more years ago a famous appeal for Serbia demanding that European governments stop the suffering of the Serbian people. Appels Viktor Igo: "What is happening in Serbia proves the need for federal European states. Let uncomplicated nations come to the place, let us contain fanaticism and despotism, break the swords that serve the delusions. Enough with the wars and the slaughters. Free thought, free exchange, brotherhood. Is peace so hard? “ I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11199	Thank you, Vice President Kovac. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of today's session as soon as possible. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11200	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and I want to thank the National Assembly again for organising this important plenary session. I would also like to inform you, honourable MPs, that Minister Jadranka Joksimovic is not able to attend this session, although it is extremely important for the government of the Republic of Serbia because she is attending an important, joint European project, which is the construction of the E-80 highway, Nis-Pločnik or the highway "Pira", as we call it, together with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandra Vucic, and with the head of the EU delegation in Serbia and Ambassador Ziofre. Minister Maja Popovic travelled to Brdo near Kranj, where she participates in the Western Balkan Ministerial Forum on Justice and Internal Affairs and Rule of Law, so that both are absent, it seems justified to me, but precisely their absence speaks of how close our co-operation with our European partners is, so much so, I think, their absence is more justified. I am certainly here as Prime Minister, also Minister Komic, who is still leading an extremely important portfolio in the area of social dialogue, co-operation with civil society organisations, human and minority rights, which is also crucial in our European integration. As you've heard so many times, it seems to me that we can generally be satisfied with this report on the progress of the European Commission. The government of the Republic of Serbia is certainly quite pleased, for the first time since 2016, and that is what I am particularly proud of. For the first time since 2016, we have a completely positive narrative on the reform of the rule of law. Also, for the first time since 2016, we have found progress in the area of freedom of expression and the media, which is also extremely important because as a Government, we have given a lot of attention to this issue, we have established even two working groups, the Task Force for Implementation, the full implementation of the media strategy that we have adopted and also the Working Group for the Security and Protection of Journalists. I, as Prime Minister, meet with the representatives of this task force every month. I also want to thank the European delegation in Serbia for participating in the work of this group, the Norwegian Embassy, the Konrad-Adenauer Foundation, the OSCE. So they all participate in the work of this task force. It somehow helps us, of course, to move on, to progress and finally, and this progress report found that we were able to make some positive moves after all. Standardly, as far as the economy is concerned. Good report, praises. It seems particularly important to me because these praises and this stability are both economical and further progress and faster recovery than expected comes at a time when we are still struggling with the pandemic of the coronary virus. We see now that certainly GDP growth, economic growth in 2021 is likely to be over 7.5%, which is truly an incredible success and unexpected, I think, a rapid recovery of our economy, which again and in 2020 has fallen minimally and only 0.9%. What we are particularly focused on, in the term of this Government, as I said in Expose, as we have spoken every time in this Assembly, are reforms in the area of the rule of law and in the area of judicial reform and address recommendations given by GRECO in the field of fight against corruption and the fight against organised crime and media freedom in the Republic of Serbia. Also, and all that concerning fundamental rights, therefore, is the whole portfolio led by Minister Comic, but there is, of course, also war crimes, national strategies, implementation and the strategy we adopted, etc. So, indeed, two key priorities in the functioning of this government that talk about our commitment to faster European integration, certainly the rule of law and the area of environmental protection. That's why it's so important for me to point out again that in this reporting period, it seems to me to be a pride and recognition of all of us, established advanced in the area of rule of law, somewhere more, somewhere less, but still progress. Also, what is important to underline is clearly this report by the European Commission recommended to the Member States the opening of both clusters that are ready, which is Cluster 3 – competitiveness and inclusive growth and Cluster 4 – the Green Agenda and sustainable integration. We continue to work directly with all EU Member States to get really this support, so we open during an intergovernmental conference that will be held in December during the Slovenian Presidency, to open at least one of these two clusters, and I think it is a positive signal not only for Serbia, but for the entire Western Balkans region and that it is so much more important. This isn't guaranteed yet, this job isn't done. So, every day we are in touch with the Member States, we are still answering all the open questions that have clarifications that we ask for, we provide and we will fight again and again, I hope that by the end of this year as the final result of our work in this first year of the government's mandate, but also as a result of such a good or generally good progress report, that we will also have the opening of the cluster. It is particularly important to me, and I will try to be brief, to talk and to talk about how much we have tried in the last 12 months of this government's mandate to work fully open, fully transparently and with all the factors in our society for waiting and we have established with great support, and finally the initiative of the National Convention, the permanent dialogue with the National Convention, I also thank them for the presence of this plenary session of the National Assembly, which we have continued dialogue, an open dialogue on all matters of importance for the Republic of Serbia, and I want to thank all civil society organisations who, through the National Convention, participate in this dialogue and on all topics. So far we have had from the rule of law, as well as somehow the first topic in this dialogue with the convention, through the protection of the environment, through the question of the pandemic of the covids, and how at the end, as we faced ourselves and what was good, and what was wrong in the work of the government during the pandemic and many other issues, to talk to the civil society organisation during the conventions, but we also presented this report to all relevant associations and organisations, starting with the Business Chamber of Serbia, with which Minister Jadranka Joksimovic held a meeting on 25 October, with a special focus on the economic part of the progress report, through a permanent conference of cities and municipalities and again the National Convention. We have also held on to the report and the meeting with all the ambassadors of the EU Member States on 22 October, so it is important that I reiterate that the European integration of the Republic of Serbia is a matter of importance and importance for all of us, not only the Government as executive authorities and certainly not just the National Assembly, although the National Assembly is the most important Parliament and not without reason the most of the times mentioned in the report, that both the People's Parliament and the President of the Committee have said, but in addition to the executive authority, despite the legislative authority of all of us and local self-government and civil society organisations and the media and individuals and all of us because the EU accession process is still our common process. We continue, as we say after every report and I want to tell you today, yet before this house is the most important, as executive authority we further focus on the recommendations and full implementation of all the recommendations contained in the report. One of the important things we're doing right now is we're certainly going to cut the number V.D. performers of office within the public administration. Today, at a regular cabinet session, we appointed additional executives who have been V.D. so far. Let's say, like the director of the "Electro Network of Serbia" or the director of "Serbiavoda". So we heard a clear and loud recommendation from the European Commission. We're reducing the number V.D. In the public administration, and we'll get on with it. Of course, we are also going to all the further processes that are envisaged and revised by the action plans for Chapter 23 and Chapter 24 again, the area of rule of law, important laws. Some of us are very late, so we try to make as much time as it takes to make them quality, but in collaboration with all the relevant factors in society, which, of course, makes this process more complex and more time-consuming, it is important that we together pass laws. So I expect the government to adopt a proposal of important laws soon, such as the Media Act, but also the Electronic Communications Act, so that it can be found at the hearing before you, honourable MPs, but these are all things that we must, of course, do seriously and as I say, in collaboration with several factors in our society. I also hope that by the end of the year, I was saying that Minister Comic and I have had important strategies adopted, such as the strategy of co-operation with civil society and other strategies. So let's focus on the recommendations and keep working. The next extremely important step we expect since 2018 and it seems to me that we are finally on the right track. Great gratitude to the Assembly in that support. These are, of course, amendments to the Constitution in the domain of the judiciary and finally having a referendum on 16 January. As Government, we will do our best to have a strong, good campaign now, to present to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia why this referendum is important, which is actually decided in this referendum, why these reforms in the area of justice are important. In order for our judiciary to become, certainly, less dependent, not to be as independent as it can be, of course, it must, from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as directly elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, be independent, but also be much more effective and much more responsible for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that in the best possible way, as far as we could as executive power, we led this process until this process was taken over by the National Assembly and the Justice Committee, and then as a government, we gave really all the necessary support to the Committee on Justice and the National Assembly to move on to the public debate process, to come up with an act that would practically change the Constitution if citizens voted for it, that we had constant communication with the Venice Commission, to get the Green Light of the Venice Commission back. I will remind you that in 2018, this government, at the time I led it, that it had a public debate, proposed amendments to the Constitution in the area of justice, got the Green Light of the Venice Commission, but that in this term we wanted to extend this public debate further, in order that regardless of what we have the Green Light of the Venice Commission, we still achieved so much needed consensus in society on these amendments to the Constitution. I think we've reached that consensus now, which I'm particularly pleased with, and I think we all need to pay special attention to this together. So we didn't go to the Venice Commission's approval, let's move on, although some professional professional associations disagree with this, but we continued the conversation until we got the highest possible degree of consensus on these important issues, because it's still a change of constitution. Once again, it seems to me that this has also shown what standard we have reached in the area of rule of law and amendments to the Constitution because this is the first time that in this way the Constitution has been changed in the Republic of Serbia, or whether it will be changed will the citizens say in a referendum on 16 January, but never for these, nor for a proposal to amend the Constitution, we have not had a public debate. Certainly not in this scope and in 2006 we didn't ask for it, nor did we get the opinion of the Venice Commission, well, all those who criticise today anything we do should turn around to see what it was like and what it looks like today and how we as a country have progressed, because any next government or any next assembly of the Assembly, if they want to change the Constitution they won't be able to do it in a way like that, let's say, was done in 2006. They will have to comply with this standard, which is indeed a wide public debate and an inclusive, transparent public debate, permanent communication and consultation with the Venice Commission and ultimately the Green Light of the Venice Commission, and then let the citizens decide what they want to do next and how they want Serbia to move on. So that's the next important step. I want to say it and end it. I am particularly pleased that, indeed, thanks to everything that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has done and what the Government has done as an executive authority, the way we do it, ultimately and transparently, with great participation, again I want to say to both the Convention and civil society organisations, as much as we once disagree, it is important that we have dialogue and it is important that we talk about these issues. Let us say our point, that they say their point of view, that we fight with arguments, because that is what is important for political culture, but therefore somehow for further European integration. Thanks to the process that concerns all of us and in which everyone is involved, support for citizens of the Republic of Serbia for EU membership, according to the latest surveys is currently 57%, which is the biggest support in the last five years. While European integration was being advocated in this society only declaratively, without any truly reforming, serious reform processes, that support was 40%, 41% because first, people did not understand, secondly, they did not really see anything that would bring it to them, because it was a question of individuals in the political elite. Now that this process is going in a way that everyone is involved, we see increasing and greater support for Serbia's citizens through European integration. So, at this point 57%, the biggest support in the last five years and I finally hope to see it in the 16th of January referendum. Thank you very much. I'll be here today for the entire debate to answer questions and, after all, I'm taking instructions from you what the government, as the executive authority that answers you, should continue to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11201	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? A representative of the JS parliamentary group, Mr. Djordje Kosanic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11202	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very difficult for me to begin today's presentation with the expression of condolences to our favorite colleague's family, certainly a great friend Milutin Mrkonjic, our Mrka. May eternal glory be to him and thank him for all he has done, certainly not just as a minister, not only as a MP, I must say, and we will all agree, as an extremely, extremely good man. Today, we are ahead of us first of all with a proposal for a conclusion on the European Commission report on Serbia for 2021, as well as a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members, deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will immediately say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support how the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members, deputy members of the National Assembly board, also a very important proposal for a conclusion on the European Commission's 2021 report on Serbia. European integration and EU membership are the national interest and strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia. Despite, Prime Minister, I must say, despite the problems and the double arches that often swim to the surface of European politics when it comes to Serbia, and Serbia, you will agree with me, I must say, some may not like it, but large steps go forward in all segments. When I say this, next to the Covid 19 pandemic that has affected the whole world's crisis, many major economies are on their knees, but Serbia is also showing results. When I say that, I'll just mention some parameters, let's say over 60% of all the investments that come to the Western Balkans are heading towards Serbia. It speaks of investor confidence in Serbia. Next, we have fiscal and monetary stability, you just said economic growth, not to say the fall seems dominant to me. On the other hand, an increase in wages and pensions at this time of Kovid 19, at a time of great crisis. And the level of public debt is about 59%. What is the result, not returning at a time when we also had that public debt at 80%, let's say one France or Italy have a public debt of over 100%, and let's say the countries of the environment like Slovenia or Croatia are behind Serbia. I have to mention the open Balkans initiative here. Again, I say, and this is not welcome for all, as far as this initiative is concerned, but it is an initiative that facilitates the flow of people, goods and capital, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the good neighbourly relations of Western Balkan countries are developing. If we work together in the region, then our voice is much stronger, not only towards the EU, but also towards other international factors and all Western Balkan countries are small and this initiative really changes this region. A joint performance is always much better than an individual performance. Small markets have nothing to look for, as I said, on a large single European market, but also on other large markets. For the full success of this initiative, which is very important, it is necessary to include all five Western Balkan countries. So, along with Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania, Montenegro and BiH also need to be included. As I said to the Prime Minister, not everyone sees this initiative well-intentioned, but on the other hand, they calmly look at Pristina's announcements that they will violate the Washington Agreement as they did not respect any part of the Brussels Agreement and that they will go into a new lobbying for recognition to say, quacks the unrecognizable states. Also, for lobbying, to enter Interpol and UNESCO, as if they had not already learned a lesson that in previous times 18 countries withdrew recognition of the false quasi state. It is also very important for us that certain EU countries, such as Greece, Cyprus, Romania, Spain, Slovakia, continue to stand at the non-recognition stage and, let me say, false creations. But also, Prime Minister, what is very important to us, the two EU countries, Slovakia and Hungary, are open for the first time, not only declaredly, but openly supporting Serbia. European country's prime minister, our friend Viktor Orban, has openly said that Serbia needs the EU more than the EU needs Serbia. Returning to the European Commission's Progress Report on Serbia itself, the European Commission proposed to open two new clusters in pre-accession negotiations and this cluster of three "Competency and Inclusive Growth" and a cluster of four "Green Agenda and Sustainable Connection". It will be the first time in two years we open two new chapters. The commission's report also showed Serbia's progress in almost all areas. The Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, has shown commitment to many areas over the past few months. Here I will mention the adoption of constitutional amendments, you said, amending the Law on Referendum, with the aim of increasing the independence of the judiciary, for which the Venice Commission gave its positive opinion. Then, recommendations to prevent corruption. On the other hand, reports by independent state authorities, first the Citizens' Protector, the Public Information Commissioner and the Trustee of Equality, are being considered. It is further under reforms, especially in the area of the rule of law and the Green Agenda. Certainly, the 2022 elections will show that we are going in a positive direction when it comes to freedom of choice. Serbia also actively participates and helps manage migrant flows towards the EU, playing an active and constructive role in co-operation with its neighbours. At the very end, Prime Minister, I would like to say that our country's state policy is based on the agreement of the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the National Assembly, that Serbia is unequivocally continuing its path towards the EU, not ignoring those relations with other countries with which we have traditionally good relations, and that representatives of the ruling majority do not lead a double policy, one directed towards the electoral body, and the other towards the international community, as it may have been in some previous time. Today's government policy is neither pro-Western nor pro-Russian, nor pro-Kine, today Serbia is leading Serbian politics. At the very end, I would just like to say that in the day of the vote, the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia, as well as the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11203	Thank you. The People's Messenger Samir Tandir has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11204	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable Prime Minister, respected Minister, respected guests, before I move on to today's agenda, I would like to commend the government's decision to freeze the price of five basic life supplies, although it is not a popular topic or measure. I think at this point, when we have on the world stock exchanges, it's a galloping price and electricity and other energy sources, it's a measure that was necessary. I want to congratulate you. The reason why the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party, supports this government is this socially responsible policy. Perhaps the price of flour type 400 or oil in the circle of two or in Belgrade does not represent anything, but for all of us who come from underdeveloped municipalities, from the devastated municipalities we know how many of our friends, relatives, neighbors, fellow citizens spend their budget on these basic provisions of life. I think it's a wise decision and I call on the authorities to monitor both wholesale and retail sales, as well as producers implement this government decision. Also, I want to look back, yesterday we had some politicians coming from Sandzak calling for certain blockades, protests, some violence. It is a path that we citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia do not need. It's a path my Bosniak people don't need. We will continue the path that was routed by the rickety leader of our party, academician Muamer Zukorlic. It's a policy of reconciliation for our children, for our people. Our children shouldn't be in the streets, they should be in schools, at universities. Our people should be at work. I want to say that what is part of the coalition agreement between the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the Serbian Progressive Party, which has been agreed by the rickety president of our party, Academyman Zukorlic, with President Aleksandar Vukic, are major infrastructure projects. I call on other Bosniak parties from Sandzak to show their coalition agreements for the sake of the truth. I'm saying that rickety Zukorlic never fought for his function, he fought for the projects, and he found a talker in President Vukic and a man holding his word. All those projects that we agreed on today are being implemented. Right now, when it's due to be realized by the year 01/09/2022 of the Gaswood Generation Projects, someone wants to start some of the God-given riots and throw a shadow at all of it. Also, the construction of Gasvodo to Prepolje begins in February 2022, and the value of the investment is 40m euros. These are generational projects, which we all need to be proud of, but we need to know who's the most responsible for all this. The government of the Republic of Serbia, this state has never invested more than now in Sandzak municipalities. Eightm euros through the Office for Public Investments in the School in Sjenica and 140m dinars for the new trafo station in Prepolje, Velika Zupa. That's something to say hello anyway, and that's the answer to those retrograde ideas. The same ones who pushed our people into trouble in the 1990s, in some kind of unrest, the first time they fled to Turkey and left our people behind. And then and those years rickety Zukorlic was with his people, as we are today. What I want to take advantage of your presence, Prime Minister, is that the segment we need to improve is investment. So we need one, to start a big investment in Novi Pazar, in Prijepolje, in Sjenica, in Tutin, in Priboj, the situation due to the free zone is certainly quite good, as well as in Nova Varoš. Only with investment, only with a healthy economic policy of all these retrograde ideas, which would want us back on some track of conflict, will we send for all time into history and history. As for the report we're talking about today, it's quite favourable. As we have heard, 57% of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia support the accession of our country to the EU. That's a very high percentage. Among other things, and because of policy, the clearly defined policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we support and when it comes to European integration. The European Union is our most important foreign policy priority. It's a system of values we want to inherit. And geographically and historically, we belong to Europe, and that's where we belong. However, what we must also talk about is that the European Union is also experiencing a crisis of leadership, that the European Union has some internal dilemmas and that the European Union also faces Bregzita both the migrant crisis and the elections in Germany, and next year there are elections in France. Finally, the issue of enlargement policy is raised - will the EU continue at the pace as its founders have drawn it, or will we simply have the redefine of that policy where we will make the EU first categories and some other EU categories? I sincerely believe that this will not happen and that we will have a single community of European peoples of the same system of values. The report is certainly favourable. Best in five, six years. The recommendation to open cluster 3 “Competition and inclusive growth” and cluster 4 “Green Agenda and Sustainable Connecting” is one quite good signal. I expect, of course, that the heads of state will accept this. What makes me particularly happy is the context in which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is mentioned in the report itself. We do have an unfounded criticism that this sage does not, as some say, have some kind of legitimacy. I've run for MP four times before this election, and I've been through it four times. And every single one of them was, in my opinion, a piece of shit from my auto-projection. The political attitude is whether or not you want to participate in the elections, no one can force you to. And a boycott is a political stance. Other parties participated in the elections, some became parliamentary, some did not, and that's that. What makes me happy is that we have a minimum number of laws that we have adopted by emergency procedure in this assembly of the National Assembly. We also adopted the Code of Conduct, and I think it's a very important step. What is specifically mentioned in the Report is inter-party dialogue. Our party, the Justice and Reconciliation Party, took part in both the track, and the one that was held here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia without the euro-ministers and this second track with the euro-mediators. I want to thank the Europarliamentaries, they're our partners, they're our friends. I think that there was both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Parliament and all the participants who showed high democratic awareness and what we did the other day by adopting a new RIK calling is proof of one democratic capacity, that even the parties that did not deserve to have representatives in the RIK will now get it. I think it's very important that no one ever points a finger at RIK again and raises doubts about the electoral process, because it is the foundation of our democracy. As for civil society, the Ministry of Dialogue has indeed launched a series of processes and I think it is a very important ministry, meaning, for social dialogue and human and minority rights. However, what I think we should work on is this one public discourse. So we can't attack someone who's our political opponent based on his ethnicity. We can attack, so to speak, criticise, face attitudes, disagree, but we can't agree on someone because he is Bosniak, Romanian, Albanian, Hungarian, that based on his ethnicity we criticise him and in some way disqualify him for performing the greatest state functions. I think the messages that came from the state's biggest summit, and from the president of the state, and from the Prime Minister, and we all need to send those messages. We're simply a society of diversity, and we should be proud of it. The space where I come from, I call it Sandzak, I totally understand that someone in their tradition, in their own language, calls it differently. But I don't accept that anyone or any of my people can impose what we're going to call it, even though we repeat the fence a hundred times that it's not a political termology, it's simply a toponym, a historical region. What I want in particular to point out and what the report points out - the area of the judicial system, limited progress. For me, it's a really big breakthrough, and I want to commend both the government and the Ministry of Justice and the resolution board. There is no limited progress if you are making a change to the Constitution. So it's one big historical thing and the Venice Commission has given a positive signal when it comes to changes in the Constitution. I also disagreed in that segment when we say politics choose judges. Judges, prosecutors, court presidents were elected by parliament, and parliament were representatives of the people. These people sitting here are not just politicians, the people sitting in parliament are representatives of the people. It was simply one of the conditions that we had to meet and I'm glad those conditions were met. I am sure that the citizens' and citizens' referendum will also give a positive view of these constitutional changes. As for the fight against corruption and organised crime, GRECO concluded that their recommendation had been met. One of the most important priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on which we have based our coalition agreements, is the uncompromising fight against crime and corruption. I think that in the past, evidence that one of the most monstrous criminal organizations, Veljka Belivuka, has been broken, and that a large number of police officers, even one state secretary, has been arrested, and that is proof of the state's complete commitment to deal with crime and corruption. It is something that will always be a priority in our parliamentary group. As far as media freedom is concerned, it's a million-dollar question. And when Donald Trump was president of the United States, he complained that there was not enough media freedom and that he was censored. I think it's enough that we can never get to that level to make everyone happy and I really absolutely advocate media freedoms, especially as someone who spent most of his political career in opposition. However, if we compare the situation in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, we will surely agree that today and on media freedoms of rights are certainly much higher, that you can express your position clearly. I remember those years that there were literally two televisions, one in Sandzak and one in Belgrade, where you could make public your position that didn't agree with the government's policy at the time. As for economic criteria, the report highlights praise, progress in tax administration reforms and privatisation of state-owned banks. I want one more time, and this report says it, and unfortunately we can't hear from independent analysts commending government policy here in our country. We just have to make a fair game. If there's anything good, whether you're the government or the opposition, you have to confess. Our country's economic policy is something where they take off our hats and the most significant countries today both in Europe and in the world, economic growth is over 7%, the decline in last year is 0.9%, the parameters that every country of the European Union would be proud of. The precondition for this success was the 2014 reform. I want to once again commend the economic aid package of eight billion euros that the government has given to economic operators. I think it's something that saved our economy. The party of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasants' Party will vote for the report in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11205	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11206	Thank you. Just a few things after two speakers, so let me make my comments. The European Union and membership in the European Union is our strategic priority and the first objective of our foreign policy. It's not just declarative, it stands for several reasons. First of all, because I think Serbia belongs to a valuable, economic and cultural family, ultimately and geographically, the family of European peoples. In addition, everything we see in our economy also says that we should belong to the European Union, in the sense that the largest percentage of foreign investors and foreign investment in the Republic of Serbia comes from the European Union, and that our products are the most exported to the European Union market and that this is our most significant market, but that we and the European Union and the Member States of the European Union, as I said, share a system of values. We live today under complex circumstances, in a complex world. Of course, not all EU Member States share their views on all issues and on everything that is happening. Of course, the MEPs, therefore, who come from different political groups or different EU member states, do not think equally about what Serbia is like, what Serbia does, how it does, whether it is positive or negative and how positive and negative it is. Then it's normal to hear all kinds of amazing and incomprehensible statements. Of course, it's also normal to hear different kinds and degrees of hypocrisy. Unfortunately, the fact is that for one reason or another, not to enter into the measure at all, had on some issues both double and triple standards or that we have no standards at all, so that the standard exists in some issues only and exclusively for Serbia and no one else, but it's all a fact, a fact of life. That's how it is. So that's what we need to deal with, that's what we need to talk about. Again, there should be, of course, dialogue with both the EU and EU member states, but there is no need to complain about it. We know that it is in our best interest to be a member of the EU. Finally, and all that we are doing on our European path, all those reforms that we are carrying out on our European path, and three most important areas, areas of rule of law, economy, public administration, we are doing to make us better, stronger society and country, so that we have a better quality of life for all our citizens, for all those living in the Republic of Serbia. Finally, again, whatever you can say about the EU and whoever might have resented the EU, I don't think anyone can argue that the EU is in the history of humanity, I've said it many times, and I think it's important to mention again today, that in the history of humanity, this is the largest and most successful peace project, so as such, it has a lot to give to us here, together in this space, in the Western Balkans. So everything that's rational is actually saying that the EU is still our house. It doesn't end or condition our partnership with everyone else. This partnership and friendship with neither the Russian Federation nor the US, nor Turkey, India, the United Arab Emirates, other countries never conditioned or raised the EU as a question, no matter what anyone said or what narrative they wanted to place. Never, never asked that as a question. It was never either – or. Yes, there are also problems, there are double arches, there are also things that piss us off, as I believe there are things that piss them off in relation to us, but it seems to me to be a unique platform that integrations are needed both for us and for the EU itself, that integration of the Western Balkans into the EU is necessary, desirable and good thing. I must also point out for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are monitoring this transmission, to remind people, the EU is the absolute and far-reaching donor to the Republic of Serbia. And, as a donor in terms of grants, therefore a gift of money, grants, and certainly the largest funder, in terms of favourable loans to our infrastructure, travel, rail, energy, for our health system. When you look at all the clinical centers we're working on right now. The Nis Clinical Center, which we have completed, the Serbian Clinical Center, whose first phase is to be completed by the end of this year, so we continue in the 2022nd phase, the Vojvodina Clinical Center which we are currently working on, the Kragujevac Clinical Centre, which hopefully we will start working either in the last quarter of next year or in the first quarter of 2023, is all funded from the European Investment Bank's loan. That's over 250m euros for that alone. When you look at the digitization of our education, education, modernisation of our schools, it is also loans or European Investment Banks or European Bank for Reconstruction and Development or both of these banks. You have here ratified a 65m-euro loan from the European Investment Bank for the modernisation and digitisation of our schools. So, all these things, maybe we still don't talk enough about it, talk about how important European integration is to us and how much practical and daily they really contribute to the better quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in each but in absolutely every segment. So that's one wave. Understand that we often talk, like everyone in the world, about some negative things. We have, of course, misunderstandings and different opinions on very important things, such as KIM, with some EU Member States, but dialogue is important. After all, the policy that Serbia is leading today, which was changed by the arrival of Alexander Vukic to power, that is, by taking over the prime minister's position, is that constant dialogue with arguments, fighting arguments is important and that it is okay to disagree with someone, but that you should also talk about it. So that, too, is the policy that we have now and in this Progress Report. Again, there are no, we do not agree 100% with all the things in the report itself, but we shared that with the European Commission and with the EU delegation in Serbia. We disagree with those parts of the report concerning Kosovo and Metohija, because I think it is deeply unfair to say that you are calling on both sides to fully implement international agreements. You cannot call both sides to full implementation from the report if one party, or Belgrade, has fulfilled everything it could meet with that international agreement, the Brussels Agreement is meant. It is not right, and as it is not right that every time in that report for Pristina, you repeat that same finding and you call them for application, if the report just says that they are not doing anything on application, but now and openly order that they will not and will never apply the Brussels Agreement. So, I think, but again it's all up to the European Commission, the EU, that you really must now give some other qualification. If you have given the same qualification for eight years, and now in April it will be nine years since the signing of the Brussels Prozum, without a community of Serb municipalities that is the spine, the key thing in this agreement, whose EU guarantee is, you must say something different in the progress report for both Belgrade and Pristina. Again, these are things we disagree on and continue to work on. But we should never lose sight of how important the EU is to us both as a partner, and as an absolutely far-reaching donor, and as a lender, a financier under the most favourable conditions of our health, education and so on, both politically and valuablely and in any other way. As for the frozen prices of basic life supplies, I saw, I guess that's normal, and praises and criticisms, for critics and so forth, I want to say you know what? At this point, this is the most responsible, best possible decision, not because we in any sense want to interfere in the free market, or intervene in the market, or change, or disrupt market relations, but because at this point we really have an uncontrollable price increase. Not only in Serbia, but no one at this time can imagine what will continue on the energy market, and in terms of prices, and gas, and electricity, electricity, how it will of course affect all other prices, where and at what level they will stabilise. The only thing we want to do now is keep the price of these basic life supplies predictable, stable and safe, until things on the market and these earthquakes are stabilized. Wherever they stabilize, at whatever level gas prices or electricity prices are stabilised, although again, thanks to the really best possible unrealistic agreement between President Putin and President Vukic, we extended everything that our existing conditions, the price of gas, of $270 more six months, with the possibility of taking more gas if we need it. So until we go where the prices will stabilize we'll intervene. We'll intervene if it's necessary from the stock reserves, we'll see to it that it's as little as possible, not to interfere in the market, but still, while such earthquakes are, we still guarantee one stability for all our citizens, above all for those citizens with smaller incomes. You've looked back at the protests and the calls for protests. Protests, I think, are, in their essence, natural, particularly in democratic societies, and I think that the way that we've come to the team and all the other protests in the past few years, as we have allowed, as the police have acted, members of the MUP, is also to show that we are a country that is not only safe on the European path, but rather a country that allows people to protest to do whatever they want, therefore, on any subject, without or with the minimum presence of the police and without the application of excessive force, well, even when the police are under direct attack, such as the institutions, and above all, this home, when the police have tried, after all, and let the protesters into the National Assembly, Parliament, this country, well, just threw them out. You can't see that, I think, in no EU Member State. We try again to be, in that sense, more Catholic than the Pope, so to show that we won't have any violent dealings with the protesters, that we'll let people protest, about anything, anything, and whatever, and wherever we want, and try to solve all these things with dialogue and arguments. This is extremely important for our European integration from one perspective. From another perspective, the reasons for these protests, the reasons why these protests are being launched also, and directly concern our further European integration. Here I am talking, first of all, about one reason for the ultimatum protests to withdraw the referendum law, about the president of the Republic of Serbia not signing the referendum law. The president, as we heard yesterday, signed the referendum law, and thank him for that. It is directly something that depends on our further speed of our European integration. Why? Because if we don't have an amended referendum law which, while reminding you once again and those who protest, and those who asked the president not to sign and from you not to vote for this referendum law, was our constitutional obligation. And once again, clearly and loudly, before these changes were in force was the 1994 referendum law. The 1994 referendum law stated in its Article 24th position that the referendum is of full importance if it was voted by the majority of voters who have voting rights and who are listed in the voter's list in accordance with this law. So, the referendum is important if it was voted by most of the citizens of the voter list. Then they changed the Constitution in 2006. The amended 2006 Constitution in Article 203, paragraph 8 says the referendum is important if the majority of voters voted for a change in the referendum. So, the Constitution lifts the threshold. Since 2006 the Law on Referendum, which was in effect in 1994, has been unconstitutional to you. We changed the referendum law to finally bring it into line with the Constitution adopted in 2006. Whether I like the 2006 Constitution, whether I voted as a citizen in 2006 in that referendum or not, whether I was in favour or I was against it, it doesn't matter now. I am here to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as we all are. Whether I like the threshold or not, it's not a question. The 2006 Constitution has lifted the threshold, people. When you protest then you protest against that 2006 Constitution, which is also perfectly fine, but if you want to change the 2006 Constitution, I'm sorry, but you have to change the referendum law the way we changed it to be in accordance with that Constitution, so change it, and re-introduce the threshold. People, to be clear, that's no different. So you can't protest and look for something that's unconstitutional. Neither we brought this constitution nor there was a public debate at that time, but you must respect the Constitution and everyone must respect the Constitution. So now we've changed the Law of Referendum. The 2006 Law on Referendum is in line with the 2006 Constitution. Let me tell you one more thing. As far as the thresholds are concerned, we, of course, were again in line with everything we were supposed to do on our European path and asked for the Commission's opinion for the referendum law. The Convention of the Venice Commission, the 2006 and 2007 code of good practice of the Venice Commission, states that the threshold of those who came out as an institute is not necessarily in line with best democratic practices and that the threshold of those who went out should not exist in the referendum law. So, if we did something else, we wouldn't get a positive opinion from the Venice Commission, without a positive opinion from the Venice Commission, the European Union or the European Commission would tell us – people, in the area of rule of law, we don't decide, we listen to the Venice Commission. Is what you did and whether you did it right or didn't do it right? So, again, the one protesting against it should know that not only does what it requires contrary to the Constitution, but that if we adopt, and thank God, we are not those demands that it will directly reflect that there are no further European integrations until we are done in accordance with what we have done, which is in consultation with the Venice Commission. And that's how it is. So, to be clear, as far as the environment is concerned, of course, citizens can protest. Personally, if you ask me as Anna Brnabic, I am glad, indeed, that we are increasingly in Serbia dealing with the environment. I think it's terribly important. I am, after all, the Prime Minister who put the first Prime Minister in the Republic of Serbia as one of the top priorities of the government that I am leading, one of the top priorities, because I made it clear in my exposé, if you remember, people, you know how, we have now reached that economic standard that we not only have to, we had to do it 40 years ago, but now we can invest in protecting the environment because these are terribly expensive investments. I don't get it, and I ask again why now? Why are you protesting now that we in the term of this government and in the assembly of this Assembly have adopted a whole series of extremely important laws regarding the environment. The law on the use of renewable energy has for the first time the Republic of Serbia. Prior to that, renewable energy sources were one member under the wider Energy Act. The Energy Efficiency Act and the rational use of energy that allows us to expand, practically allows us, and this is how we could, but this practically allows us to expand the central heating network, the district heating system because it introduces the category of "the privileged heat buyer", so people will be able to join the central system. On the other hand, we're changing coal energies, biomass and gas mules. We're spreading the net. People who couldn't afford it before now can afford it because they're privileged, so we subsidize their heat price and we all have much cleaner air together in a few years, but we're going to change it. The Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining and Geological Research Act, and it seems perhaps most important to me, as the biggest signal of the Climate Change Act as the first system law establishing the basis for limiting greenhouse gas emissions. Since 2014, have we just begun to build decommissioning filters on our thermal power plants? We did. No one's done this before us. Did we start building wastewater treatment plants? We did. Did we start working on a sewer network? We did. Did we start subsidizing for the purchase of electric vehicles? Well, you can't on the one hand, these tycoon media, tell us, when we introduce an electric vehicle subsidy, how we subsidize the richest, and on the other hand, when we have environmental protests and threatened air, that they say you didn't do anything for that air. Well, he can't do both. Or you're lying when you said we shouldn't have done it or lied when you said we weren't doing anything. We can't hear each other, and we hear each other all the time. From day to day we hear the opposite messages and criticisms or that we did something, so we shouldn't have done or that the same thing that they criticised us yesterday that we did not actually do it, but, well, it's up to us to fight on. "Rio Tinto", I think yesterday President Aleksandar Vukic put an end to the subject of "Rio Tinta" and all speculation, and who brought in and who gave the first nine permits and who gave the first permit for drilling and research. What is especially amazing is that in 2019 it was not even given by the Ministry of Energy and Mining, but by the Ministry of Environment. Minister Oliver Dilic gave it to me. So much for caring about the environment and our resources and how they exploit themselves, but good. Finally, let me just say this. As for not changing the Constitution now because this assembly has no legitimacy, you have again skipped one important step, as you always skip it, and that's what I'm talking about in the extraparliamentary opposition, which is citizens. Always forget about the citizens. Always. Declare a victory in the election before the citizens voted for you or for us, as you have now come to whether the Assembly will by two-thirds majority adopt or not. First, citizens should say whether they want to or do not want January 16th, and then, if it comes to the Assembly, then the subject is whether the congregation has legitimacy or has no legitimacy. But let me tell you, if you're going to say no, that's a stupid claim. You have a stupid thesis and a completely missed topic because no one in this world, no one in the EU, no one in the United States, has ever challenged the legitimacy of this call. Well, the EU partners also said go to the polls. It's, after all, democracy. The government can only change in the election and we're not up for a boycott. You've decided to boycott. Those who didn't decide to boycott, but went out, failed to get votes even for a 3% census. So the citizens voted, elected their MPs, and each assembly has legitimacy after the democratic elections. You can't determine whether or not some congregation has legitimacy, although I understand that they think they're above everyone and above everyone and that the only legitimacy is when they give him legitimacy. Well, it's not even legitimate if sometimes they cross the census by accident, so they have 5% but they have to have 20% or 25% to have legitimacy. It doesn't say anything. It's not democracy. So, let's go back to the citizens and democracy, and everything will just be nice to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11207	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, since it's full of leaves, I have to wipe you out. Samir Tandir probably asked for a brief replica, please, because some of the authorities have been waiting for a long time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11208	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your detailed consideration. The fact is, this government is the first to deal with a bunch of environmental problems, and I think it's something to take off a hat. For the first time, non-sanitary dumps are being solved. As for other problems, as we were saying, and waste water and gasification and biomass, etc. I think that even after 20 years, the EU is a very abstract goal for most citizens. I don't think we're talking about it enough. We are not presenting the results that, in fact, the EU is something about the everyday life of every citizen and citizen, and I think we should say more about it, that when we clean our rivers, when we are dealing with environmentalism, that this is actually the Green Agenda, and that the EU, when we see a politician, a judge, that it is not a force of some kind, but that it is a service of citizens and that it is a European fluid, and I think about these projects that in the local environments, in smaller areas, in smaller EU cities, were funded through grants, were through grants, that it should be talked about more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11209	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Dr. Muamer Bačevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11210	The President-in-Office, Prime Minister, Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, it seems to me, Prime Minister, that you haven't had a more meaningful speech in a long time, and you practically took most of what we wanted to talk about. It seems to me that your speech has been the most quality of all time, as far as I'm concerned. Probably because you've performed very emotionally and emotionally trying to point to everything that you've been working on since you've been here. I'm gonna start undermining some of the things you've already talked about, because you've been really content and quality. First of all, I can't figure out that someone can have something, even though I didn't want to talk about it, about five of the most basic foods being limited to the price, and how can someone run an opposition policy and oppose this decision? That's absolutely unacceptable to me. We see that this is not the problem of our country's economy, but that, in practice, we live in a non-prophylactic and non-standard time, in the time of the epidemic, and that the economy is in turbulence and that prices are growing everywhere. I call my relatives in Germany, it's a disaster they say. And it's really a responsible and good move. However, I must suggest one thing. Among these five most basic foods, of course, oil, flour, sugar, is a certain product of pig meat. However, I have to ask you, for the sake of the citizens of Islamic religion or Jewish religion, you should include perhaps something from, for example, a June aortaman, and that in that way, I know that it was not done with intent and I'm not saying it, I didn't absolutely want to talk about it, but for example, it would mean it to me, probably to all Muslims, to include, for example, a hero but also to have this respect and some religious specialities of all the citizens of this country. I certainly know that you are committed to this job and that it was most likely a matter of failure. Anyway, I'm glad you really talked very nicely about the EU's benefits. I'm not hiding, I'm a Eurofanatic, I wouldn't be living here if there wasn't a road, probably a road this country's way, and most serious people, serious experts, wouldn't do it. We really see our future in the EU, the only one, to say, today, the persian of world, human and minority and all other rights and freedoms. Here, she mentioned the chairman of Victor Ig, of his famous line on Europe as a community of all European countries, there he meant by analogy to the United States, through the unification of six EU countries, that is, six countries of Europe in the Steel and Coal Community, up to today and up to today's shape, you have said it well and should always be mentioned, and I know that the Minister of Human and Minority Rights has always said it and that is the most important thing, the main thing is that the EU is a major peace project. Since the EU was established, there has been no conflict or war on Europe's territory, nor is there to be thought, nor will there be any conflict and war, and that is the most important thing. The second thing, of course, seems to me that in 2012, the EU won the Nobel Prize for the promotion of peace, solidarity and all other major postulates of humanity. In any case, the decades of aspirations of the countries of Europe to gather to co-operate and, above all, guarantee security, and then human and minority rights, and then economic development, and then solidarity, is something that we need to pursue and pursue, and something that promotes, above all, the European values of all Europeans, and I see myself as a European. Another important thing, even though most European countries believe that, I think those who do not belong to the current EU, I think of the geographical European countries, think that their future in the EU, are, in the European Union, responding and being heard united in diversity. So, the EU does not eliminate our specialities and differences, even more so, it supports and supports them. This opening part I said was inspired by your sentence, and it's really the most important thing, the most important thing that human beings need is peace and prosperity and a chance to develop, which I, as a socialist, always primarily respect. The European Union today consists of 27 countries, but the reception of new members has not been stopped and it continues. Yes, we can hear from time to time that there has been some kind of enlargement fatigue, but the EU, in every place, its officials and its official institutions, points out that the European perspective for all the countries of the region on our continent and for membership is open. Of course, since democratic change, our country has been defined for the path to the EU, and a really significant progress has been made on that path, especially in the last, to say, two cycles, in the last two governments, indeed made huge progress. We, as you know, opened 18 chapters, even two temporarily closed. And after the introduction of the new enlargement methodology, the chapters are now grouped into six thematic continents, i.e. clusters, of which Serbia's first cluster has already opened. In the latest report, which is today ahead of us, the European Commission on the Republic of Serbia, published in the framework of an enlargement package that points to the reforms needed to take six countries of Europe and Turkey, it is clear and it is proposed to open two new clusters, which is really good information for all of us. That is, you said again, Cluster 3 refers to competition and inclusive growth and Cluster 4, which refers to the Green Agenda and sustainable integration. He was really inspiring, and, I'll say, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, your eulogy speech. It's really done a lot. Well, we've been debated all the time, we've been looking for a solution to the state dump, and then other dumps. We're handling it. And all of this that you've listed, and the introduction of sewers and treatment of waste water and much, much, much is true. It is truly incorrect to abuse laws, good laws, to enter into political promotion. It's the same as at the beginning, I deliberately said. Who in their right mind would be politically mature to attack the fact that we are limiting the growth of five of the most basic ingredients in use? I don't know that. Who in their right mind can attack the Law of Referendum? Look, I said here, the story of the referendum is whether we politicians want to hear the voice of the citizens, whether we want to hear what they need or we're the smartest, or if we think we've fallen from Mars, that we're not part of the people, that we're making decisions the way that suits us, or, God forbid, someone else. So it's absolutely unacceptable for me to discuss it at that level. In addition, you have excellently interpreted the Venice Commission as the main body of the European Commission, i.e. the EU, which deals with the judiciary of all EU countries and those countries that seek to join the EU. Her recommendations are imperative. They're asking us to change the outdated referendum law, which is bad, which shows our practice. How many successful referendums have we had? Did we have one popular initiative successful? And every day in Switzerland, practically in a month, they organize, create their country's policies through referendums. Well, is that a message to democracy, the rule of the people? Is that what democracy means? Absolutely unfounded attacks and calls to create some kind of disturbance in the state, which is absolutely incorrect, at an extremely difficult moment. Let's fight politically, politically, with political tools, with what is available to us, with our ideas, with our programmes, not in the way of blocking a country and its development and absolutely everything. It's absolutely unacceptable for any criticism. I am glad that today is the story of the EU, or the European Commission report ahead of us, because it is an extremely important story. You know that the main problem of this country, and you seem to be, I've seen in a few titles, I've said -- labour, we don't have labour, we don't have people to do and the departure of young people. Without a European perspective, and for God's sake, and European money, we wouldn't be here, most of us, and the future of this country wouldn't exist without this time, believe me. This is a road we should stick to for our own sake. Well, I'm plastically undermining some of your stuff. European Commission, I see European friends as friends. I see every suggestion as a suggestion and as a empowerment. It is always said that the European Commission wants to strengthen the government of the Republic of Serbia to strengthen the participation of national minorities in local self-government, thinking of institutions, which is correct, which we need to trust more in each other. We don't have any international serious problems here, we practically have one harmony. Another thing, to develop economic parts in which minorities are represented. I'm glad that's what it looks like. Here's the mention of the pipeline. The idea book was that you had a pipeline in New Market. When I spoke a few years ago -- it's going to get a new Pazar pipeline, I have a government promise, it seems to me in the past government, everyone said this man nebulose amounts, confabulates. I'm saying, people, I believe it, we have the documents, we signed it, everything's going right. Here, today and today, they're criticizing, and their pipeline outside New Pazar, entering the municipality of Novi Pazar, setting up pipes in Novi Pazar next year, we'll be running around the city. There, solving problems and pollution. Absolutely unacceptable are some things in political conflict, political struggle, calls for blockage of the streets. It's really unacceptable for me, as a doctor. Stopping the flow is unacceptable to me because I've been breaking my head for days to save one man's life. We need someone to die or a few people in the time of the epidemic when people die every day, absolutely unacceptable. There's a way, you said the protests well, no one takes away the right to protest, there's a way to protest, there's a way to fight politically. Correct ways that do not endanger lives, everyday lives, people's lives, the development of the state, etc. Furthermore, in the area of freedom, I have indeed singled out several parties here that are really talking about the significant progress of this Parliament which has certainly been made in this mandate, then in the areas of European flows, justice, freedom and security, Serbia said, continues to make significant contributions as a transit country to the management of mixed migration flows towards the EU, actively and constructively co-operate with neighbouring countries and EU member states. So we have answered the migrant question in one way that has been answered by the most responsible European countries, and from most other European countries we have answered much better, as is our tradition. Then, in the area of freedom of movement, Serbia has made progress compared to earlier recommendations such as improving co-operation with EU Member States on co-ordination of the social security system, etc. In particular, Serbia's progress in the area of road safety, rail reform, as well as the adoption of the Climate Act, a set of energy laws, including the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Energy Efficiency, is cited. All this has led to the conclusion that the criteria for opening clusters of four, i.e. green agendas and sustainable integration have been met. Although we have expanded the next census in a year due to the Kovid-19 pandemic, it is commended to improve the delivery of statistical data to Eurostat and is assessed progress in the field of statistics, because we are seriously preparing ourselves for this act that is extremely important for our industry as well. Of course, you have already mentioned the economy and the economy, and it is certainly commendable and that may be the most important thing, but the progress that Serbia has made in tax administration reforms is also recorded in terms of the structure of the economy and economic integration with the EU. The progress Serbia has made in this field, the field of human and minority rights, should be particularly highlighted. The report notes that a largely legislative and institutional framework for the protection of human and minority rights has been established. First of all, it is extremely important that we have formed in this government a special ministry dealing with human and minority rights and dialogue. It is a direct indication of the government's sincere desire to raise the level of human and minority rights that are now at a satisfactory level. I will especially commend the work of the Minister and the Ministry, since we have indeed had an extremely intense work on the legislative field in this area and you all know well that we have passed and passed extremely good and quality laws in this field. First of all, the Law on Gender Equality, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preventing Discrimination, and last month we strengthened independent institutions and thus in a direct way showed our desire and intensity to strengthen all levers that will strengthen freedoms and human rights in our country. Of course, it is very important to strengthen all other mechanisms that will enable the protection of the human and minority rights of our minority peoples. I've touched most of these things and I can see that time is passing quickly. I just want to finally illustrate how important it is, you said, since I come from the health sector, that really thanks to EU funds, everything we've done has been practically done. We had about 250m euros in investment in our health institutions, over 20 hospitals throughout Serbia and four major clinical centres were renovated, a huge number of equipment, investment in a human factor that supported and implemented the Ministry of Health, a huge number of vehicles. It is all something that the EU has funded and something that is commendable. They donated over 200m, and the European Investment Bank credited with 250m euros. So we're approaching the half-billion-euro figures that we've placed through European institutions in our health system, and that's why today we have a quality response in this serious epidemiological crisis. In the end, I want to conclude my presentation with the fact that we as SDPS will indeed persist and our constitutional commitment is to seek the EU, and we will always support all the progressive laws and decisions made by this government, which bring us closer to this common goal, which is modern Serbia in the EU that exists today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11211	I thank the authorised representative of the SDPS parliamentary group. Before we move on to the next authorised representative, said Minister of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue Gordana Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11212	Thank you. Several answers to the honourable MP and because he is the chairman of the Committee on Human, Minority Rights and Gender Equality and as such one who directly oversees and controls the work of the ministry. I am glad that we have remained firm to understand how far the EU is an overly peaceful project. The strength of our belief will help Europeans who have somehow forgotten it along the way, so they deal with various topics that have strayed from the key idea on which the EU was created and from the key idea that we want to make living everyday life in Serbia, which is that people build peace and democracy in dialogue and thus build trust in society never forgetting that criticism must be heard, that different opinions must be heard and that it must be discussed, that it must be discussed precisely all the topics that the European Commission's report is also talking about. The answer to you is because a year ago, as a ministry, we came before you and we promised a year of the plan, in fact asking for approval from the Committee members and you if you want to have a ministry that is willing to do everything to increase the European Commission's assessment by 20% and to be 2.64, since we have now heard that 2.8, thank you for believing that we can. I think Serbia can do much more and of course we will have suggestions on how Serbia will do it and much more. The things we owed the committee were to submit the Ministry's work report, which we did on November 19th of this year and to submit the 2022 Plan, and again we had the same exchange of questions and answers. The president asked last year – and what about a year? We said, 'Cause if we can't do this in a year, we certainly won't. Why just for a year again? Same reason. One step at a time. One by one, verifiable, willingly subjecting itself to parliamentary oversight. It's the only way to succeed and we're glad we had in the Committee and critics and associates and someone who's always been willing to dialogue on everything that's going to happen in the Ministry. This was the case with the presentation of a work plan approved by the Ministry, as well as a report. We will work for 2022 a year to adopt a human rights strategy in Serbia, and that is to say, by agreeing with Mr Bačevac's remarks, to show in our conversation with people how much the European Union is a living, daily, routine project, except that it is a peace project. How much of what this report says is something deeply permeated through our daily lives and how it is related to human rights, to the desire to decide on human rights, to measure human rights and to have a dialogue on human rights at a local level, because it is a place where almost 70% of all the laws with "akia", with what we agree, with the EU, are brought. This is served by the Strategy of Human Rights, and we hope for co-operation during this year, both the National Assembly and MPs, such as the Parliament of the People of Snezana Paunovic, who has applied to our ministry whether someone will take care of the mental health of the nation during the two years of the epidemic, will we talk about how excited we are, how scared we are, how in suspense we are. We organized social dialogue, because that's what the National Assembly asked us to do. And binding action is taken by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, and a kind of dialogue will flow through the dialogue that we will have on aging. How much more grief is in the oldest of us and we said, when we look at the oldest of us, you don't look at them, you look at yourself in the future. If we can't understand differently how important it is to understand that it is the EU. So we started working on the creation of the Strategy of Human Rights and that we will also work on a dialogue on a major legal project, the Law on Civil Victims of War and the Law on Birth Identity, as laws concerning human rights, and that we will support the dialogue for the application of the Law on Missing Persons, as we are in support of the law. These are all human rights laws that need this society to, as Parliamentarian Samir Tandir said, talk about a public discourse that is changing and, as Parliamentarian Elvira Kovac said, what all of the European Union's recommendations are to do better, more effectively, in order to measure the next year with an even 20% higher estimate. So, let's cross a group of very good three-ways. Although I think if we try, if we're asked from the European Commission, next year -- how are you, let's say -- very well, we serve the people, so that's 3.51. It's not impossible, if people agree to talk about who needs to do what, how much does it cost, who's going to pay to talk in this same room in December like that. Mrs Elvira Kovac said what are the recommendations that we need to make sure that they are applied from the report, concerning human and minority rights, and it is up to us to share with you in the comments of the Report and how we did it. We visited all the administrative districts, in their seats, in the spring of this year. We started our second tour this fall. So far, we have visited Toplički, Pcinski, Jablanski and Nisavski County because we deeply believe that the EU, that human rights are being defended, built, improved, discussed locally. Believe it or not, it does. Let me give you an example. In the previous tour, for example, we all asked if they had advice on international relations, since it's a space where you build a dialogue between different ones. It doesn't matter if they're just international or security advice. You have it in the legislative framework, in the Law on Local Self-Government. If there is no money, there is anyone to assist, there is cooperation between international authorities, organisations and institutions, what do we have no advice on? Then it happened that in the second round of the tour, for example in Nis, we informed that it was formed and we immediately solved a human-legal problem on the spot as the representative of the Macedonian national minority said – yes, but we are not on the council, as the law says must be 1% minority. We asked – does he defend if he is less than 1% to be a member? Don't defend it. That's how you build human rights. People have to listen, they have to be heard, and they have to understand that human rights are the tissue of everyday life. We also went to all the national councils in their seats and here's another example of how we apply the recommendations. The last national council we were on was the National Council of the Albanian National Minority in Bujanovac. Social dialogue was organised on their initiative. We said what was the problem, what was it that the ministry could do. They said education, we want education as a topic, we have no translator, late textbooks, fourth and eighth grade, late licenses. We said -- you say who should participate in this dialogue, you want to go to Belgrade, you want to go to Bujanovac, they want to go to Bujanovac, please. This dialogue is our support to the Ministry of Education, because Minister Branko Ruzic did the lion's part of the job, but we need a place where people will gather to exchange information about it, such as the place and social dialogue sought by the coordination of national councils on the 2030 Education Strategy for their demands. Once again, the Ministry of Education said, "Well, we're coming, let's talk." We have solved the controversial parts of the strategy to the general satisfaction. That's evidence of what we told Mr. Bačevac last year, November 16th, we, the Ministry, are the tools. We believe that this is the essential role of each of the budgets of the paid, appointed, appointed, elected person. We are a tool for change, and so we have served as a tool for both national minorities and the Ministry of Education, and so we are ready to continue. Does it work since social dialogue was under the greatest light of mockery – what it is, what it is not used for, what you have to talk about, slap your hand. That's not how democracy is built. Until we learn to talk, we will have a daily problem with someone jeopardizing our rights, and we have nowhere to say who it is, what anyone should do differently and how all the people in Serbia feel better than some of us right now, or most of us if you ask them about the economic situation, if you are wondering about the fear of treatment or if you ask them about the atmosphere in general social, what Mr Samir Tandir was talking about public discourse. So, in the previous dialogue that we once again organised on the civil society initiative, this dialogue had a theme of civil society and the media. The invited representative of the Serbian Journalists' Union came forward and said, "Why are we just talking about media like freedom of speech, why aren't we talking about the socio-economic position of journalists?" We said – come on, talk to the Ministry, we will organise a social dialogue where the topic will be the socio-economic position of journalists, because it is important. As important as it is for you to have the freedom to work as a professional journalist, it is so important that you know that you will have something to feed your children if you have a home or yourself or whatever you have at home. I mean, that eating habit is pretty indelible. The dialogue was held on 30 November. All the representatives came, public service came, TV, private television, two associations, NUNS and UNS and the consequence was likely to continue their demands for the Serbian government on their own next week, according to the Ministry of Culture and Information, which was also present as the Ministry of Labour for its border collective contract. These are the consequences of building social dialogue. We said November 16th last year will be 12. Here on December 10th, on the day of human rights will be 22, as we will have 21 dialogues on 8 December. We planned next year 24 dialogues on the topics that people are asking us to do. Why am I sharing this information? Because listening to you now from our jurisdiction we will ask, above all, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality - do they want to be our partners by the end of December with an organised social dialogue on the outcomes and nature of the Law on Referendum? If it's so important that we know exactly what the law says, let's sit around the table and they all know in advance that the referendum law is wrong, all of us who read it so we know it's right, but I don't know what can be the outcome. It's the rule of law. This is how we build binding actions for all of us who want Serbia to stick to the rule of law. All of the remarks mentioned by Parliament Elvira Kovac, therefore, the list and education are ongoing, as well as the finalisation of three strategies that will be in front of the Serbian Government by December - a strategy for an incentive environment for the development of civil society, a revised Strategy for Roma and Roma inclusion and a Strategy on the Prevention of Discrimination, or as we say anti-discrimination, because it is important that we have these documents, as well as that we have action plans that will arise from this. All of that will be, of course, in front of you when we follow the application of these documents. What Mr. Tandir was still saying about the public discourse of how we can and what tools we can allow to be in our daily lives what is written in our documents. In all the atmosphere of hostilities and one's will to discriminate and insult, we have already said in public and on the Ministry's website that there are two ways to make a good public discourse. It is one thing to humanize and refrain ourselves from using verbal garbage with one another in communication and reading. If we want to be critics of results or if we want to be creators of change, we both have to read. Too often, unfortunately for us, no one reads anything, because everyone knows everything. Our response to the public discourse is reduced to the application of Article 387. A criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, which has to be applied when there is no natural state for you to refrain yourself from propagating anything in this society that is punishable by the Criminal Code, which means exclusively prison. Article 387 says -- who, based on differences in race, skin color, religiousity, nationality, ethnic origin or any other personal property, violates fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by universally accepted rules of international law and ratified international agreements by Serbia will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. We will plan for next spring a social dialogue on the application of a member of this law. If it already exists, why isn't it applied? Is it necessary to change it and is it good enough for all those who will not volunteer and humane to refrain from doing the actions that the police can determine and the prosecution's investigation to check and to file charges? They say countries that are more advanced than us are very successful in the rule of law when someone breaks such members of the law and gets a prison sentence. Secondly, the penalty referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article will punish anyone who prosecutes organisations or individuals for their commitment to human equality. This is the point of Article 387, which will turn into an entire section on human rights defenders in the Strategy of Human Rights. Further, who spreads the idea of one race's superiority over another or propagates racial hatred or encourages racial discrimination, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years. Whoever spreads or otherwise makes publicly available texts, images or any other representation of ideas or theories that advocate or encourage hatred, discrimination or violence against any person or group of persons based on race, skin color, religious membership, nationality, ethnic background or any other personal property, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years. Point 5. - who publicly approves, denys the existence or significantly reduces the severity of genocide, crimes against humanity or various crimes committed against a group of persons or members of a group designated on the basis of race, skin colour, religion, origin, state, national or ethnicity in a way that can lead to violence or cause hatred against such a group of persons or members of that group, if such crimes are found by a judicial verdict in Serbia or an international criminal court, they will be punished by a sentence of between six months to five years. Point 6. – who publicly threatens to commit a criminal offence against a person or a group of persons because of a particular race, skin color, religion, nationality, ethnic background or other personal property for which a prison sentence greater than four years in prison is threatened will be punishable by a prison of three months to three years. The reading of this article is to be an illustration of the sentences that Elvira Kovac correctly repeated that Serbia has an excellent normative framework for the construction and improvement of human rights, but that there are weaknesses in application and we will discuss it. In the end, I would simply like to express my deep belief that the amount of doubt is prepared for ridicule and mistrust, that it is possible that Serbia is truly committed to the rule of law, human and minority rights, which is divided in this public discourse in November 2020, now probably and larger and I want to tell you that this is good news and that this year we will ask both the world and Serbia for the benefit of doubt because the well-being of doubt is what creates room for dialogue. You say it in yourself -- I don't want to talk about this, I can't stand it, and then you say it -- and maybe that's how democracy starts, and that's how the rule of law begins. We sought the well-being of doubt because the well-being of doubt is a fundamental pillar of rule of law. It's based on an independent judiciary. It's where the dialogue is based. It is based on a culture of political compromises and we will look for them further. We don't ask for any relief, we don't ask for credit, we don't ask for anyone to look through our fingers. We ask that the next meeting with the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality in December and November 2022 to end the issue – and how, very well, we serve human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11213	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SVM Group, Mrs Rosalia Ekres.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11214	Dear Vice-President, honourable Prime Minister, respected minister, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, on December 28th of last year at the 9th session of the Second Regular Session in Plenum, the European Commission's Annual Report on Serbia was discussed, which was the first time ever that the National Assembly was plenaryly considering an EU institution document dedicated to Serbia. With today's session, we continue through good practice to talk about the essential positions of EU institutions in the open debate. Our parliamentary group, the SVM Parliamentary Group, is convinced that this way of work has a positive impact on the EU accession process because it shows that, according to the views and recommendations of the EU's highest institutions, we are making ourselves responsible, by giving them a very important place in the work of our Parliament. Joining the EU is a strategic definition of Serbia. There is absolute support in the National Assembly for the issue of European integration, which rests on a broad political and social consensus. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians as a pro-European, more accurate Euro-Atlantic party is seeking to speed up Serbia's EU accession process, consolidate democratic institutions and strengthen the rule of law. We believe that there is the technical readiness and political maturity of society to achieve that goal. I remind you, the National Assembly adopted two resolutions on the EU, 2004 and 2013. The resolution on EU accession since 13 October 2004 confirmed that the accelerated entry of our country into full EU membership and accession to the Partnership for Peace of Strategic and National Goal, which will provide full and permanent support in the future work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The resolution of December 2013 obliges the National Assembly to seek to strengthen social and political consensus on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU during the negotiations. The European Council granted Serbia candidate status in 2012. Membership negotiations are launched in January 2014. Since then, 18 of the 35 chapters have been opened. The EU Council approved the European Commission's proposal for a revised enlargement methodology for the Western Balkans in March 2020. Serbia accepted the amended negotiating methodology officially at an intergovernmental conference on June 22nd 2021. The new methodology involves the grouping of negotiating chapters in six clusters, six thematic continents and is based on four basic principles - on the principle of credibility of the process, i.e. A stronger focus on basic reforms, on more intensive political governance of the process, on speeding up the dynamics of accession negotiations and on the fourth principle, the principle of predictability of the process. Serbia opened all chapters in the first cluster, which concerns fundamental rights and covers the rule of law, justice and democratisation. The second cluster is the internal market and free flow of goods, capital and labour. The third cluster consists of competitiveness and inclusive growth within which social policy, health, science and media are. The fourth cluster relating to the Green Plan and the sustainable connection, i.e. from transport to ecology, is the only cluster in which no chapter has been opened. The resources of agriculture and cohesion, i.e. rural development, food safety and regional co-operation, are within the fifth cluster. The sixth cluster covers foreign and security policy. The European Commission's report on the Republic of Serbia for June 2020-July 2021 not only confirms the continuity of policies, but also gives an end to seven-year pledges and achievements. We look forward to the assessments concerning the work of the National Assembly, which found that the use of the emergency procedure was reduced to a minimum, that it was continued to consider the report of independent state authorities, and that the revised Code of Conduct of People's MPs was adopted. Part of the Report on Vojvodina and the weak capacities of local self-government has been repeated for years and it has been said - As far as local self-government is concerned, the Law on financing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina has not yet been passed, despite the fact that its adoption is foreseen by the Constitution. The capacity of local self-government units is still weak and there are significant differences between municipalities. Certain operations are still being transferred locally, without adequate analysis of the capacity, human and financial resources needed to implement this. Otherwise, the word "Vojvodina" is mentioned three more times in the Report, but only as part of the name "Vojvodina Radio-Television", which is described as public, the only media institution in which minority language programs are implemented continuously. Radio and television programmes are broadcast in Serbian and in 15 languages by national minorities. In the part of public administration reform, the European Commission considers it positive that in July 2021, the government adopted a Programme for the Reform of the Local Self-Government System for the period from 2021 to 2025 as part of a public administration reform strategy. There has been limited progress in public administration reform, and the assessment of the situation is moderate preparation. The European Commission's recommendation is that employment should be credited and that it is necessary to reduce the number of officials in senior management positions, that the control role of the Public Policy Secretariat in the development and coordination of public policies should be strengthened. The European Commission's report finds that Serbia's judicial system has made limited progress and a certain level of preparedness and that, after the constitutional amendments are adopted, a thorough revision of the system of appointment of judges and prosecutors and evaluation of their work is needed, in order to enable employment and progress based on capacity, since the current legal framework is not sufficiently guaranteed against potential political influence on the judiciary. In order to ensure the independence and accountability of the judiciary, the Action Plan for Chapter 23 provides that Serbia should make a thorough analysis of existing solutions, i.e. possible amendments and additions to the law, i.e. The constitution, taking into account the recommendations made by the Venice Commission and European standards. As is known, two days ago, more precisely on November 30th, the National Assembly adopted the Act of Amendment of the Constitution, the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Act amending the Constitution and the Decision to call a Republic referendum to confirm the Act of Amendment of the Constitution, and the president of the National Assembly called a referendum on 16 January 2022. In order to strengthen the European perspective of the Western Balkans through regional co-operation, the European Union continues to treat the region as a privileged partner through various EU mechanisms and instruments, such as the Health Security Committee, the joint procurement agreement, emergency protection mechanisms, the Solidarity Fund, as well as the exemption from current EU export bans on medical equipment. For the past seven years, as part of the Berlin process, special attention has been focused on establishing a common regional market. A project of the common regional market, based on four areas: digitisation, innovation, investment and industrial development, is expected to be implemented by 2024. An important step towards the creation of a common regional market is the Roma Agreement, which took effect on 1 July 2021. The report welcomes the concept of "Green Corridors" between the EU and the Western Balkans. "Green Corridors" are an example of what a region without borders can look like, which is one of the key ideas with which the Berlin Process was launched seven years ago. Why Are “Green Corridors ” Important? U2020. The year, starting in March, 500,000 trucks have taken advantage of the possibility of using "Green Corridors" and since then no major delays have been recorded. Currently, at a monthly level on average, about 61,000 trucks use green crossings. Given that there are 14 border crossings between the Western Balkan countries and 18 other EU member states, the necessity of extending the "Green Corridors" to all border crossings leading to the region, including three railway crossings, has been agreed in order to reduce the waiting time at the crossings, reduce the total costs and speed up control. In addition to numerous initiatives, the start of the "Autopute of Peace" between Nis and Merdar was announced. The economic investment plan and guidelines for the implementation of the Green Agenda for the Western Balkans are of particular importance for strengthening regional co-operation. The plan envisions an investment package to mobilise more than 30 billion euros for the region for the next seven years, consisting of nine billion euros in grenades and 20 billion euros in investment. As regards freedom of expression, the report finds limited progress by adopting and starting to apply a number of measures from the Media Strategy Action Plan and believes that the general environment for the smooth achievement of media freedom needs to be further strengthened in practice. To sum up, the SVM Parliamentary Group welcomes the efforts so far made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Integration Ministry to improve the negotiating capacity, which, despite the difficult pandemic conditions and many other challenges, has accepted a new methodology of negotiations and has shown motivation to continue with reforms, in order to ensure a faster path for our country's EU partners and institutions in co-operation with European partners. In the voting day, we will support the draft conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11215	Thank you. For our children, Nemanja Joksimović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11216	The Honored Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, is ahead of us today with a proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2021, which was submitted by 15 MPs. The proposed conclusion, in an objective manner and in the shortest lines, outlines the European Commission's report and makes recommendations for the further work of all competent state institutions and bodies, which is why I will take the opportunity at the beginning of my presentation to invite all MPs to vote for its adoption. Before I start talking about the report itself, I would like to remind you that on 5 February 2020 the European Commission adopted a new methodology for the EU accession process, which the Council officially adopted in its conclusions on 25 March 2020. Although it was not obliged to accept a new methodology, which was originally intended for Northern Macedonia and Albania, Serbia did so in July 2020. I also have to remind you that on 9 March this year, the European Commission adopted a document on the application of a new amended methodology for Serbia-Montenegro, adopted by the EU Council on 6 May this year. By waiting for more than a year for the EU to establish a new methodology for candidates who have already entered deep into the negotiation process, it shows that the EU itself needed time to use and shape the application of the new methodology. It was this transition period that was a challenge, not only for candidate countries, but for the EU Member States themselves, because there were dilemmas among them in which the new methodology would be applied. It was necessary to find a way to make a difference between countries that are already negotiating according to the old methodology, which is the case with Montenegro and Serbia, compared to countries that are yet to start negotiations, as is the case with Northern Macedonia and Albania. Just accepting a new methodology at a time when no one knew for sure what it would look like shows the trust that the state leadership of the Republic of Serbia has in the EU, but also the willingness to speed up the dynamics of the accession process. The main methodology of the new approach highlights four aspects: stronger focus on basic reforms, more intensive political governance, increased dynamics and predictability of the process. The more dynamic process also involves the grouping of negotiating chapters, so that focus is no longer on individual chapters, but on clusters that follow the EU's leading policies. The negotiating chapters are now a secondary instrument for the process of European integration, as EU sectoral policies presented through six clusters are now key: basics, the internal market, competitiveness and inclusive growth, the green agenda and sustainable integration, resources, agriculture and cohesion policy and external relations. I would like to remind you that until now the Republic of Serbia has negotiated a very demanding methodology, under which no country has negotiated, nor has Montenegro, since our country could only progress if there is progress in chapters 23 and 24 and 35. We have also managed to open a large number of chapters and temporarily close two, which shows that in the previous period we have worked hard on our European path. As for the start of the new methodology, it officially started to apply to our country on 22 June this year, when it was held in Luxembourg on 12 June. An inter-government conference on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, where we opened cluster 1 "Basics". At that time, in the course of accession negotiations, the Republic of Serbia opened a cluster and 18 negotiating chapters, while the two negotiating chapters were temporarily closed. The Republic of Serbia has implemented a change in the negotiating structure by adopting a new methodology, in line with the basic principles of a new methodology that refers to stronger political management by the negotiation process itself. In this regard, a decision was adopted on 15 April this year on the establishment of a co-ordination for the conduct of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU and the Team to support the negotiations. All of this shows that in a responsible and serious way we have approached the application of new methodologies, in order to further speed up our European integration process, which you will agree, for every commendation. When we talk about the European Commission report, I have to point out that he is, in my opinion, quite objective, although we are not thinking the same thing about certain things, although I expected a little better grades for some questions. The report showed that Serbia has made progress in almost all areas and provided guidance on those things that need to be further worked over the next period. As for political criteria, the report finds progress in all areas, both in the area of justice and in the area of fighting corruption and organised crime, fundamental rights, as well as freedom of expression. I must point out that we have received excellent grades in the sphere of economic criteria. The report finds that we have achieved a good level of preparation in terms of the development of the functional market economy and that it has seen only a slight decline in 2020, as the impact of the crisis caused by the pandemic of the virus is tempered by a strong momentum before the crisis, the sectoral structure of our economy, as well as significant and timely measures of fiscal and monetary support. It has been pointed out that the fiscal space created before the crisis has allowed our country to provide significant financial support to mitigate the crisis and thus lead to a significant increase in capital consumption. With this practice, we continue next year, and we will define the available fiscal space to continue investment in capital investment and health systems, to continue tax redundancies of the economy, as well as to continue to increase wages and pensions. Exactly, capital investment in new highways, hospitals, schools, plumbing, sewerage network, as well as water treatment plants will bring new quality of life to all our citizens, which we all stand for in SNS. We are also praised for the fact that there has been a further reduction in unemployment in the labour market, as well as for the continued growth of public investment, all showing that during the coronary pandemic, the virus continued to be responsible and seriously managed by public finances. When you see how much investment is in our country, when you see that we have more and more investment from the European Union countries, you don't need a better indicator of the level of rule of law in the Republic of Serbia, because no one who takes care of their capital will invest their money in a country that is unstable and where business is insecure. As for the question of the capacity to take on the obligations arising from membership, the report finds that Serbia has done an important job when it comes to harmonising with the legal assets of the European Union in many areas, especially in the field of taxation and energy, which is why I am particularly proud of the president of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about Cluster 2 - the internal market, Serbia is praised for progress in the area of company rights, freedom of movement of workers and business housing and freedom to provide services. As for cluster 3 combating competitiveness and inclusive growth, we are commended for progress in the fields of taxation, social policy, employment, industrial policy, scientific and technological development and education. The 4 cluster, relating to the Green Agenda and sustainable integration, praises the adoption of the Climate Change Act, as well as the energy law package, including new laws on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, as well as progress in the area of road safety and rail reform. As far as the Green Agenda itself is concerned, I must point out that it is very important for us, and therefore our country must slowly replace coal with renewable energy sources, but only by not jeopardising our energy security, because at the end of the day it is the most important for further development of our economy and our country. In cluster 5 – resources, agriculture and cohesion policy, Serbia is praised for making progress in the area of food safety, through the employment of personnel in national reference laboratories and for the development of the Fisheries Action Plan, for financial and budgetary provisions relating to the management of its own resources, as well as for the area of regional policy on financial management. As regards cluster 6, relating to external relations, the report praises Serbia for continuing to participate in European Union crisis management missions and operations under the Common Security and Defence Policy and for contributing significantly to the management of mixed migration flows towards the European Union, playing an active and constructive role and working together with all neighbours and Member States of the European Union. The European Commission also recognised in its report that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given priority to reforms related to the European Union and that it has set the Agenda on the rule of law, as one of the key priorities, that it has met the criteria for opening clusters 3 and 4 and therefore recommended that they be opened, to which we are very grateful to the European Commission. It is an important political message and the countries of the European Union, but also to our country and our citizens that much has been done in the area of the rule of law, as well as in all other areas. This Commission recommendation further confirms that all decisions by the state leadership of Serbia are well prepared and directed towards a better future for all citizens. It is also an excellent basis for members of the European Union to agree on the European Commission's assessment and recommendation to open these two clusters by the end of the year. I must point out that to get the recommendations to open these two clusters, it was necessary to assess that progress has been made in the area of rule of law, which is what this report is saying. Also, the report and the recommendations from it are an additional incentive for the continuation of reforms, and in that sense, it is very important for us and for the support we receive from the European Union and its institutions. I am also glad that Serbia did not use the pandemic of the virus's coronary as an excuse to reduce the intensity of reform implementation, but rather, we went even more strongly into the reform process which resulted in the Commission's recommendations. I am particularly proud of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister, as well as of the Ministry of European Integration and the Minister himself, that under the difficult conditions of the pandemic of the Coronary Virus, but also of the many other challenges facing today, the whole world has shown its will and desire to speed up our European path. This just shows that Serbia and its leadership are committed to European integration, which shows primarily through the internal reforms we are implementing, but also through regional co-operation. I want to take this opportunity and thank the European Union for constant support and assistance, as well as for numerous investments. The support our country receives through pre-accession funds is very important to further improve and speed up our reforms and reach our goal – full membership in the European Union. It is the European Union that is our most significant external trading partner with 63% trade exchange and our largest donor with more than three billion euros in grants. It is therefore extremely important to make maximum use of IPA III funds and focus them on the further even development of our country, in order to achieve all the plans and objectives outlined. In front of our country, it is an important task to prepare projects that will support our reforms, to make maximum use of these financial resources and to further improve the daily lives of all our citizens. I must also point out that Serbia currently receives 150m euros to 200m euros from the European Union's IPA funds on an annual basis, and when we are a member of the European Union, we will have between a billion and a billion euros of grants annually, which is incomparably more money. When we talk about the Report, I must also look back on the assessment of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, we are praised for reducing the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law, as well as the adoption of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, and that's fine. But what I don't agree with is the estimates of debates in the National Assembly, because I can't agree that MPs don't have the right to respond to brutal campaigns and untruths that are being placed by individual opposition politicians and the media that are close to them. Just by responding to their constant attacks, we defend the right to freedom of opinion, but also the right to freedom of speech. Our right to respond to the headlines calling for the physical liquidation of the President of the Republic of Serbia, the brutal attacks on his parents, brothers and children, who are not politicians, nor are public figures just our right, but our obligation, as responsible and serious people who sincerely advocate European values. It's no pressure, no assault on the media, no assault on political opponents. It's a reaction to the violation of basic human rights to something that's everywhere in the world for conviction. Just by reacting, we protect democracy and European values. I am sure that the reaction would be the same in the European Parliament or in any of the Member States' parliaments that such things happen in any of the countries of the European Union. What kind of relationship they have to the institutions of the European Union are those who run a brutal campaign against all those who disagree with them showing that the first phase of inter-party dialogue was boycotted, while at the second stage of the inter-party dialogue they came and appeared for a day and a half to leave it. What attitude they have towards EU representatives shows brutal attacks and targetling and European representatives in inter-party dialogue. First of all, we had the opportunity to hear from Dragan Gilas, who accused representatives of the European Parliament of abandoning European values. What to say is that this Dragan Gilas has been asked by journalists about the realization of the conclusions of the inter-party dialogue, I quote: "You are talking about this fraud they have prepared together by SNS, SPS and gentlemen who have come from Europe. I spoke very clearly of this and said: shame be upon you. Shame on you, Tanya Fajon and Flekenstein and Bilchik and Kukan. There, MPs, dear citizens, are his words. Or yesterday's interview with Dragan Gilas, in which he said that the second problem of our European integration is now, the European Union, which supports Vukic, continued to say that the European MPs sold everyone who believes in Europe, because they came out with meaningless paper that is evaluated and evaluated by Gilas and his former regime parliamentarians, does not change anything. These are dear People's MPs, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the opportunity of today's opposition. It is a picture and an opportunity for people who must think that they are god-given, that they have the right to discipline everything, including the European Union and MPs in the European Parliament. That is why I believe that the representatives of the European Union, but also of the Member States, now understand what we were referring to when we talked about the brutal campaign that these people are constantly leading against the President of the Republic of Serbia, his family, and all those who support state policy. As it leads against the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, it is now leading against representatives of the European institutions and the European Union, only because they have not bought the truths that they constantly bring up on Serbia and its leadership. I don't want to stay too long and simply look back on members of the former regime, I want to take this opportunity to look back on key things, which is that for us, for the Republic of Serbia, membership in the European Union is one of the key, foreign policy priorities and strategic definition. For this reason, we are watching closely the conference on the future of Europe initiated by President Emmanuel Makron in connection with the European Union's reform and efforts to strengthen it in the coming period. In this regard, the Ministry of European Integration and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue decided on 2 September this year to form an inter-resociative team to organise a permanent dialogue on Serbia's monitoring and participation modalities in the work of the conference on the future of Europe. Although there are different Member States' views on the way and extent of candidate countries' participation in the work of this conference, when we talk about Serbia, it takes the view that we can make a significant contribution as a reliable partner of the European Union to the debate in the future of Europe, as well as that Serbian citizens have both the right and the obligation to participate in such dialogue, because the future is Europe and our future. I sincerely hope that the enlargement policy, as one of the most successful policies of the European Union, will remain high on the agenda, because Serbia, but also the whole region, is a place in the European Union. Serbia is part of Europe and it is natural to become part of the European Union, which is why we are sincerely committed to our European path that should result, precisely in our full membership. I therefore hope that by the end of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union we will take the next step in the process of European integration and open a minimum of one new cluster, because, as the European Commission's report notes, we have earned it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11217	Thank you. Since there are no more authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups in the system, we are moving on to the list of declared by word. The first on the list is Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11218	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, honourable Minister, honourable MPs and MPs, it is very important that we speak today on this subject and all come together to the conclusion that we are going unquestionedly forward when it comes to our processes, according to what the European Community demands in relation to the state, the Republic of Serbia, in relation to what is necessary for us to do from what is put before us in order to meet all the conditions and to finally get to where our country deserves to be, that is, in the community of European peoples. Everything that's been said today is very important. It is important to me that part of which the Prime Minister spoke and struggled with organized crime. It's very important to point out that too. We are pleased that this struggle has yielded results especially in the central part of the state, but it is necessary beyond that to do the same in all other parts of the Republic of Serbia. We have spoken here many times, and in particular, rickets, our president, academician Mufti Zukorlic, that what was done in Serbia with a group of Belivuks, should be done in the Sandzak area, because we have, unfortunately, certain Belivuka who are not sufficiently punished to stop all that is done. Now, a few days ago, we had, say, one of the most frequent streets, between three schools, two high schools and one elementary school, a university, and so on, a shooting involving participants who were previously known crime convicted of serious crimes, but they were arrested by the police and released immediately by the prosecution. You know, those are terrible messages. We had a situation that a journalist was killed in the Shadow, that the investigation was still ongoing, but a few days ago the one who was, therefore, the inspiration of that murder, the father of that murderer came most normally and walked around that city. These are terrible messages to the citizens of that part of the country. Or we have a situation that three days ago in a car accident, a prominent New Market citizen was killed, that on that day, a group of drug dealers were arrested, but the media in Serbia made such a scene, that the brother of the woman who buried his sister was accused of being among those drug dealers, and he was a prominent citizen, an educational worker who had nothing to do with anything. It was simply someone's responsibility to make that spin, that one who was part of an organized criminal group be saved from the media link and so on. Unfortunately, the greatest danger to us is precisely, in this context of organised crime with certain parts of the judiciary, the prosecution, and unfortunately the police, and that must be put into effect. We now have, unfortunately, the biggest fear is that there is no association of organised crime with some extremist groups that could contribute to this whole hot situation what is good for all citizens of Serbia, what is good for both Serbs and Bosniaks, is not, as long as it is primary. That is why I use this situation to warn myself of such scenarios and to say that it is encouraging that we have very positive results at the level of the state, but that we really must do so in the space of the entire Republic of Serbia, because criminals, drug dealers, they have neither faith nor nation, they belong to one particular soy that regardless of these other differences only looks at their own interest, and who is against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who is against the interests of each one who thinks well, this country and all the peoples who live here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11219	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11220	It is cynical to talk about the EU in Serbia. It is a fact that when we know that for 20 years, all governments and all regimes have been expanding their hands towards the EU, they want to be part of it, and the EU is at the very least moving away, and sometimes it pushes us away with its feet. Best of all, President McCron explained when he said our trip to the EU was very conditional and it is a very big question whether we will ever be there. Then it's only cynical when they judge how much we've done on that European path. I will not remind you of everything in the national interest of the Serbs and the Serb people in the Balkans, in southern Slovenian spaces, is not good when the EU is asked. Representatives of your authorities often spoke of the hypocritical stance of Brussels towards Pristina's behaviour, the hypocritical attitude of Brussels towards the behaviour of Zagreb, towards Serbs and their rights, about the hypocrisy of the EU military wing, which is NATO applies in Montenegro when it prohibits Serb leaders from entering the government, about supporting the violation of Dayton and the imposition of people who have not passed the Security Council to be galulators and commanders of Brussels and in colonial terms manage Sarajevo, Serbia and all people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I won't talk about what we've all talked about, and often you from the ruling coalition have agreed that Brussels is working to destroy our family values. We don't have to talk about it, the Visegrad Group says it much better, although it is in the EU. I want to talk about what she's doing to our social structure, how much she's destroying our social justice, how much she puts us in a position that more ordinary people, people, don't feel like living in their own country. The Serbian tears have no comfort or understanding of Brussels, we all know that, but under Brussels Serbia and people's tears there is no comfort and no one understands it. So we need to remind ourselves that the way Brussels sees Serbia and how it sees reforms, that we no longer have judicial departments that verify everything necessary for citizens, but a rich notary that fills high taxes with private pockets, and we don't have a budget for co-workers in courts, so I come to the position that courts are overwhelmed by cases, they can't give one of the basic human rights, and that's the right to judicial protection and justice to people. We cannot help but see that foreign banks that rob citizens today are so brutally and obviously supported by the EU in terms of imaginary services, both by the law and by such measures of EU reform adaptation. We cannot see that even those who are still under the influence of the National Assembly, and they are called the judiciary today as exaggerators of foreign banks, are trying to justify them robbing our people. What will they do when they are completely freed from our influence? Whatever we are, and we are not the best, we are the people's representatives. The referendum that goes is a direct violation of constitutional protection that this people can once again and somehow control their own judiciary. These days, there's a stand-alone movement growing. It's made it very weak to break the sovereign forces of both parties and individuals. Many of my friends from the opposition are attacking me that as a constructive opposition, I am too moderate to you, to rephrase you too mildly. I don't have a problem with that. I even think that sometimes I get too hard on you from SNS. Now I want to invite you as people, because I know that many of you feel the same way as we do from the constitution movement, to help us not let the judiciary get away from this people, to help us when we do the campaign, not to give up the people's control over those who need to judge, to help us by defending our votes, and perhaps to sabotage some of the managers of European influence in your ranks and to give the people back the right to another thing of their sovereignty. This is not a question or a party, this is not a question or a political attitude, this is a question of human responsibility for our future. To friends of the constitutional defense movement, I want to say that we need to focus this fight not only on the abstract story of the Constitution and the protection of constitutional norms. We need one of the EU's most carcinogenic influences, which are private and forced perpetrators, to get out of the system and we need to focus and we need to fight against private perpetrators, and they are part of the European view of how the judicial execution is conducted on citizens. It's time to work for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11221	I guess it's some new organization of that movement. It's hard for a man to remember everything. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11222	Thank you. Minister Comic asked me to invite you to a dialogue on these issues. I don't think we understand each other very well, and I don't think you may have quite understood everything we're doing and changed, but let me tell you what you're saying, the people aren't stupid, because they understand what's good for him and what's not good for him. I think that 57% of citizens' support in the process of European integration and membership of Serbia in the European Union, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, seems to me enough to understand what is good for them and for their families, for their family firms, for the companies in which they work, for the career and perspective of their families, but certainly your policy is the policy we need to listen to and we need to respond to what you are talking about. Now, some of the things you say, as usual when you say, and when I'm here every last Thursday of the month to answer parliamentary questions, they're simply not true. So these are claims that do not have any support in reality, in reality, in fact and on purpose or by accident, by saying this, you deceive the peoples and citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, after all, follow us to this session. One, for example, that when we enter that European Union, we will no longer decide about us. That's never gonna happen. No one's ever said that. The Member States of the European Union decide on themselves, have their congregations, their parliaments, have their own elections, choose their representatives in these parliaments, these parliaments decide what will be done in the country. So I really don't know how you think that when a country becomes a Member State of the European Union who decides on it. What, no more of his own assembly, his own parliament, no more of his own government? I really don't understand, or maybe you don't understand how the European Union works or you deliberately deceive citizens. In any case, it is a big problem that you as a MP and at so many years don't know that no country loses its sovereignty by entering the European Union. None, neither will Serbia. So, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will continue to question everything here, they will continue to decide on the direction in which the country will move in the elections, the country will continue to run, practically the highest legislative authority, which is the National Assembly, the president of the Republic that is directly elected, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia as the executive body elected by the Assembly. If that were not the case, Bregzit could not have happened, since no one from Britain had thrown out of the European Union, but their people had declared that they would no longer be members of the European Union. So what you're saying really doesn't even stand in theory and even less in practice. When you talk about our judiciary and what we suggest changes to the Constitution in the area of justice I must now say, also to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that we have worked seriously on this, and we have seriously measured, balanced and appreciated it. So, executive power, Prime Minister, Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Justice will no longer have any effect on the judiciary, none, but the National Assembly will of course choose people in the judiciary. I'm sorry the Minister of Justice isn't here. I said why she had to be absent, but certainly members of the High Council of the Judiciary were partly elected and the National Assembly. We never wanted to agree to exclude the National Assembly from this because it would alienate the judiciary from its citizens, which it cannot be. I personally said in public debates that it cannot be that the judiciary is completely independent, so independent of both the legislative and the executive authorities. All right, if it's independent of the executive, but the legislative authority requires all of us to be dependent, because the legislative authority has to balance all of us. Why? Because, gentlemen, you're being elected by the citizens. You here every 250 of the MPs represent the number of direct citizens in the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly continues to play a role in selecting judges and VSS. It is possible that a slightly smaller or certainly different parliamentary majority is needed, but still, we have said -- okay, even we who now have this large majority in the Assembly, we think it is good for democracy, in the end, and citizens who disagree with us and think differently from us, that judicial decisions require agreement between the majority and representatives of the opposition. That's how we, the honourable MP, said that tomorrow you too will have a much greater vote in what the High Council of the Judiciary, the judiciary, etc. looks like than we would have today. So we have fought for a greater right of opposition, but it is not possible that the National Assembly or the MPs have no influence on the judiciary. That's just not true. We fought for it, because ultimately, the basis of democracy is the balancing of three branches of government -- judicial, legislative and enforcement. One out of three can't be alone for herself, because then it doesn't match the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And we've always said that we want a judiciary that is certainly independent of politics or more independent, and we said okay, it doesn't have to be completely executive power, it can be excluded from the process, but it can also be more efficient, much more efficient and much more responsible. We have to keep it safe. Now, let me tell you about what we are, whatever we are, we do know for ourselves what is true, but to tell you, when politics has too much influence on the judiciary, then it happens to you, and it doesn't matter that this influence of abuse, which we unfortunately saw in the Republic of Serbia, then in 2009, judicial reform, overnight and literally overnight, thousands of judges, public prosecutors, deputies, deputies, out of work, just because we weren't members of the party at the time in power or the headquarters of the then government, which, by the way, they didn't like something at the Ministry of Justice, so they left the people out of work, and that 579 judges of the basic courts, 152 judges of senior judges, 70 judges of the economic courts, 11 judges of the Court of Justice, 24 judges of the Supreme Court of Justice, 75 of Justice and their deputies. All of these were subsequently paid by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all of us living in this country, paying taxes and over 44m euros. That's why it's not good for you to have politics, politicians, and any possibility that someone wants to replace the judge or the prosecutor himself. It could have been in 2009, today can't, and we have in Serbia today a power that would have abused something like that, and finally, we want to find out somehow, and in this sense it's the rule of law, not the rule of law of Ana Brnabic, not the rule of SNS, not the rule of government of Vlad Glisic, but the rule of law, which is therefore above all of us. It is a practical proposal that we have and we have put it, after all, and in a referendum to be decided by the citizens. Now, as far as crowded courts are concerned, everything we've done, so let me tell you, and as part of the reform in the area of justice, in the rule of law, on our European path, has caused our judiciary, although I would not, if I could afford that freedom, say it's effective, because it has to be much more efficient, that it's much more effective again than it used to be. Then we also have the fact that in 2021, in the Serbian judiciary, too, we continue to reduce the number of old enforcement cases and that we, or our judiciary, and I congratulate them on that and thank our judiciary for that, for the fifth year in a row of the judicial system in Serbia solves more cases than they receive. So, the whole backlog, the whole legacy we had, we're slowly cleaning it up. So when you say - the courts are crowded and it's getting worse, it's actually not true. That might sound nice in your politics. I understand that's the narrative you like to say. But either you don't know what's actually true or you don't care about the truth, and I'd like to think this is the first thing, so you just don't know, that you don't know that five years in a row we're solving, or our judiciary, more cases than we're receiving, and that efficiency is increasing and that the number of cases that have accumulated slowly but certainly cleared. Just one more thing, it hit me specifically, so I left it to the end, because I think everything you said is the most incorrect and wrong one, and that's your line that people don't feel like they're living in their own country. I think it is a great insult both to the Republic of Serbia and to our people, a great and unacceptable insult. Our people and how they feel about living in their own country and how much they know how stronger, stronger, more stable they are every day. Both the Army of the Republic of Serbia and all the security services and economies, which is the first time ever since our existence, Serbia will have the cumulative economic growth largest in Europe, and so on and in sport, without talking about finally and again having to say, thanks to Alexander Vukic, we are returning to ourselves, to our history, to our tradition and to celebrate everything that was most beautiful and best in our history. That is why today we have in Belgrade and a magnificent monument to Stefan Nemanja in Sava Square, which was the worst, worst, ugliest hole in our country's capital, today is one of the most beautiful, if not the most beautiful square with the monument Stefan Nemanja. Today we also have the highway "Milos the Great". Not only do we have a highway to Chačka, who dreamed so much and promised them so much, but what that highway is called the "Milos the Great" highway. So we'll have a freeway to the Karajords, and soon we'll have the marking of the jasenoid victims. These are some things that seem to me that you need to know, but unfortunately, since it doesn't match your political narrative, it doesn't matter what's true. That's not gonna work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11223	Thank you. The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11224	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, President and Member of the Government, that I am not addressing the People's Parliament directly, I am as the author of the conclusions, I will remind all of us today that we are actually voting on the conclusions of the European Commission's report, I have planned to speak at the very end of the debate, and I will really shorten that address, in order to allow other colleagues, because there are more of us among the promoters, to participate in the debate before the vote, but I simply couldn't without reacting to what was said a few minutes ago. There have been several emotional discussions here, and I would like to join that, and I am a Eurofanatic and Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, the party from which I come, is not only for European integration, but for Euro-Atlantic integration, but I don't want to open a debate about it now, I just want to share a few data. Today there's talk of numbers and on the other hand, citizens think otherwise. I don't want to make anything beautiful. So I'm going to share concrete data from two or three different public opinion researches, or concrete numbers, so everyone can interpret them in their own way. One of the most recent surveys since 16 November this year, a research by the Balkan Public Policy Advisory Group in Europe, according to which 53% of Serbian citizens are ready to join the EU and 43% are against joining the EU. When we compare our country with the region, or the Western Balkans, in Albania, the percentage of this support is 94%, in Kosovo 90%, in Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, 83%, in northern Macedonia. It is clear that citizens of this region believe full membership is the best option for their country, and only respondents from Serbia have given priority to economic integration without EU membership. While citizens of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia consider the national governments the most responsible for slow progress in the process of European integration, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia blame the institutions themselves, the EU institutions. On the other hand, which is why I am personally unhappy but these are facts, Serbian citizens are among the greatest pessimists in terms of the date until the country could become an EU member: 25% believe it will happen in the next 10 years, 16% in the next five years, while a large percentage of 44% thinks it will never happen. Another survey, even fresher than November 24th this year, the report "The Vulnerabilities Index – Serbia", the ISAC Fund's Centre for International and Security Affairs, supports more than half of Serbia's citizens' European integration. However, what we heard earlier, at the same time 55% of citizens believe that the process of integration threatens democracy, traditional values, promotes a moral-corruption and decadent way of life. Although citizens see the EU more as an opportunity to improve the lives of ordinary people, which is good, everything based on this survey, 18% of citizens view the Union as a strategic partner, 84% of respondents do not consider China a threat to Serbia, and even 59% think China, alongside Russia, is Serbia's most significant strategic partner. According to research results, Russia's greatest support enjoys among the younger population between 18 and 24, which means that we who deal with European integration should improve and improve communication towards them. Seventy-one percent of respondents share the view that the West unfairly blames Russia for many problems. The good news refers to the Eurobarometer survey done in EU member states and shows that for the first time since 2009, most EU citizens, 44% of them, according to 42% against EU enlargement to the Western Balkans. It's clear. So it's very easy to read these results and make conclusions based on them, because the fact is that in Serbia's public opinion there may be widespread opinion that the Russian Federation or some other factors may be larger donors or far above donations coming from the EU, so I'm going to share just a few data. Official records show a drastically different picture. According to data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce for the period from 2010 to 2018, the total net investment of residents of the Russian Federation in Serbia amounted to 1.47 billion euros, taking the fourth largest investment in Serbia. According to data from the National Bank of Serbia, Chinese investments have been 1.6 billion euros in Serbia over the past 10 years, but when we look at it on a percentage basis, therefore, according to data from the National Bank of Serbia, investments from China, e.g. Since there are statistics for 2019 and 2020, in 2019, the total amount of 321,8 billion euros accounted for only 8%, meaning 8%, less than 10%, of the total investment of all countries in Serbia, which is 3.8 billion. The example works in 2019, the EU invested 3.2 billion euros in Serbia, almost 85% of all investments in Serbia, while in 2020, during the crown, of course for clear reasons, this fell to 70%. Another report, I say, one of the fresher ones from June this year, 2021. A report by the UN Conference on Trade and Development on which the inflow of direct investment in Serbia last year amounted to $3.44 billion. According to the National Bank of Serbia, from 2010 to 2019, the inflow of 13 billion euros by foreign direct investment was the highest percentage of foreign investment inflows from the EU. I say, that percentage is about 70%. During the same period, China invested a much smaller percentage, while 9% of these total investments arrived from Russia and, individually, what is known, it is one of the largest investors – the Republic of Italy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11225	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. The right to reply has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group, Mr Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11226	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I want to look back at the previous presentation of my colleagues, but also to say that Prime Minister Ana Brnabic responded in her presentation and said in the best possible way what the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what SNS policy is, and that is why I will use these two minutes just to look at two things and two findings. The first thing concerns the Constitution, i.e. the Law on Referendum is anti-constitutional. First of all, it's not true. It is quite the opposite, it is the constitution and according to the highest legal act of our country, but those who passed the Constitution in 2006 did not obviously read it, so now they present the lies and deceive the citizens who listen to this. As for the attempt to spread panic among citizens that someone on the side decides in Serbia today, I want to look back, because it is absolutely not true, and we have had the opportunity to see it during the period of the former regime, between 2000 and 2012, when ministers, Prime Ministers, State Secretarys and everyone else chose exactly in foreign embassies and chose precisely by some restaurants where others on the side and with some other people from different miles, not to say businessman, tycoon, were just making decisions on who would represent Serbian citizens. Today the situation is different. Today it is the citizens who decide Serbia's future. It is the citizens who will decide at a referendum on the change of the Constitution in the area of justice, as they will decide at the end of our accession process on whether Serbia wants to join the EU. These are facts and we have shown this on several occasions, and precisely thanks to the responsible policy of Alexander Vukic since 2012 only the Serbian citizens decide in the Republic of Serbia. That is why I am sure that in the next elections, which will take place in April, that Aleksandar Vukic will receive absolute support, that the SNS list will receive absolute support and that in the coming period we will be responsible and dignified for representing Serbian citizens to make their lives better and better every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11227	Thank you, Mr. Joksimovic. The next reported on the list is Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11228	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Orlic, Honored Prime Minister Mrs Brnabic, Minister Komic, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today when we discuss the conclusions of 15 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2021, I would like to remind all citizens of Serbia that Serbia's European integration and membership in the EU are our national interest and our strategic commitment. The Republic of Serbia sees the EU accession process as an incentive to continue reforms and strengthen European standards. We must not forget, several fellow Members of the People's Parliaments today were specific numbers when it comes to this EU financial assistance, I would like to point out that the EU is our most important trading investment partner, our biggest donor and one of the most important partners in the creation, I would say, of our country's economic stability. In preparation for today's presentation, I was really reminded of all the opportunities created after World War II and how we have come to the concept of formation, above all, of the European Coal and Steel Community, of the European Economic Community of all those EU ancestors, and I have encountered a very interesting speech on the unification of Europe by British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, who spoke to students in Zurich in 1946, after just one year after the end of World War II. Winston Churchill then said: “This noble continent, which includes in everything the most beautiful and cultural areas of the earth, enjoys a mild and moderate climate, is the homeland of all the great old races of the Western world. Here are the sources of Christian faith and Christian ethics, here is the cradle of almost all cultures, art, philosophy and science, both old and new age. If Europe were to unite once in the mutual division of the common heritage, it would be an immense happiness, prosperity and fame that would enjoy its three or four hundred million people." This visionary, such as British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, spoke of the fact that the time might be short and that at present there was a break, that the cannons had been silenced after World War II and that the fighting had stopped, but that the dangers had not stopped and that if we wanted to build the coin that he had devised by the United European States we must begin now. He concludes his speech with the following thoughts: "If initially all European countries do not want to or do not want to join the EU, we must go to the gathering, to the association of all those who want to and can." It is this famous speech by Churchill that ends with the sentence, "Let Europe rise again." Somehow, this is the right time to remind ourselves of this speech, because the EU itself is really facing a number of challenges. Soon, a whole controversy was launched about the future conference on the EU itself, which includes all actors and national parliaments and governments of EU member states and accession countries and representatives of the civil sector, local levels of government, students, young people, to talk about why it is good to be back in the EU, why it is important for the EU to survive and why it is important for the EU itself to continue its reform processes. When we talk about this EU financial assistance, I would say that the EU is providing Serbia with more than two decades of financial assistance and that these specific data, which I have come to according to official data from the EU delegation in Serbia, speak of Serbia and the EU signing IPA financial agreements for projects whose implementation is planned in the next period of each year and that the first part of IPA for 2022 is worth as much as 70m euros, that the EU has provided Serbia with 93m euros in aid in the fight against the global pandemic, such as Kovid 19, that the EU has indeed been a reliable partner and has provided us with both equipment and financial resources and during the May floods in 2014 when we, but also the whole region, were hit by these great historical monsters as the May floods in 2014. Also, we must not forget that the EU is our largest donor for 20 years and that the trade exchange between Serbia and the EU accounts for a total of 62% of Serbia's total trade. Also, over the past 10 years, foreign direct investments in Serbia amounted to 15.4 billion euros, which accounts for 67% of the total inflow. The biggest investors in Serbia, when you look at this previous period that all factories have opened in Serbia, which investors are coming in and what's good is that despite the second year of the pandemic we manage to preserve jobs, but also to open and create a good business environment that opens up new jobs, it is very good to point out that these biggest investors have come from the EU member states and that when we look at these figures, they are really impressive. In the period from 2016 to 2019, the level of foreign direct investment in our country amounted to seven billion 315m euros from EU Member States, and then came investments from the east, I am thinking primarily of the Republic of China and the Russian Federation. Direct foreign investments are really welcome in our country. They do a lot of good to our economy. They lead to us introducing new technologies, new skills, new business skills, creating new jobs. Also, when we look at the main sectors, i.e. those in which the EU provides financial assistance, we will see that significant financial resources go into the restoration of our education, our schools, our hospitals, our health care sector, not only in financial assistance, but also in helping with vaccination or medical equipment. We have IPARD financial resources which are also related to aid in agriculture, aid to our owners of agricultural land, aid to development and further improvement of rural tourism. Not only that, there is certainly an incentive that goes towards local economic development, incentives that go towards innovation, environment, transport, energy, justice, rule of law, but I would also say what you are today in your opening address and, as you have pointed out, strengthening the capacity and further reform of our public administration through the process of digitisation and modernisation. The Republic of Serbia has EU membership candidate status and this is indeed our strategic goal, the foreign-political priority, defined by the 2019 National Security Strategy. In the construction of society, it is in this strategy that states in Article 3. which defines our national interests that in the construction of a society based on European ideas, that Serbian thinkers participated in the first half of the 20th century, that the Serbian people have indeed suffered great sacrifices for building a free and stable Europe, that Serbia becomes part of an organisation that represents one of the most significant global actors and that it really achieves the opportunity to participate itself in the process of making and creating decisions within this organisation. Indeed, the Government of the Republic of Serbia as the main negotiator in the process of European integration is indeed making an enormous effort to make this European course, that the process of European integration itself really makes it alive and that every day we can see progress in this process. When we look at the history of our country's European integration, when we look at these important dates, I would say that the European integration process was actually unblocked in 2013, when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement came into force, after that and in 2014, when the first intergovernmental conference between Serbia and the EU was held, then in 2015, when we opened the first two negotiating positions of 35, how many Serbia has, that the results are really good in the process of European integration. So far, we have opened 18 negotiating chapters, two have temporarily closed, and that the Serbian authorities have indeed accepted the process as their integral part. Although we didn't have to adopt this new methodology, and how we defined ourselves for it. Opening clusters, and earlier opening chapters, is always an important signal, an important impulse for all of our citizens who show that Serbia is on a good path today and that Serbia's reform course is clearly marked. Serbia has its own policy and we are developing partnerships with both our partners in both the East and the West. We're really trying to keep this process dynamic, the dynamics of opening, the earlier chapters, and today the cluster, alive. As an active member of the Committee on European Integration, I believe that this dynamic of the opening of chapters does not follow the real dynamics of the reform process and the real progress of our country. We are not looking for any shortcuts, no concessions, but only looking for one real relationship, one fair relationship, to look ourselves in the eye and see where we are and where we want as a society to go, but to valorize every reform progress and every step that our country, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also all institutions in the integration process and how they are making efforts to make it visible and to ensure a significant shift through the opening of clusters that today represent so-called. Grapes of the chapter. On October 19th, the European Commission published a report on Serbia for the year 2021 under the so-called so-called "Second" programme. The enlargement package, which contains a report on candidates and potential candidates for membership. It is good that the report, as you said in your opening presentation, is also presented to representatives of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities and the National Convention. We discussed it at the Committee on European Integration in October and was presented at a meeting with the ambassadors of EU member states. Last year was the first time we discussed the report in a tide. It is good to open topics of European integration and to have active dialogue in this process, but not with ourselves, but with all these actors across the way from us and to include in this process representatives of the media and student organisations and the academic public, including the National Convention, or representatives of the civil sector. During the Portuguese presidency, a cluster of fundamental rights opened at the Intergovernmental Conference "Serbia of the EU" on 22 June 2021. The Commission, when it submitted its Report on Serbia this October, gave positive instructions for opening two more clusters -- cluster three, related to competition and inclusive work, as well as cluster four, relating to the Green Agenda and sustainable integration. A lot of things don't depend on us. We are part of our homework and how well we have done, as good students, now all this depends on full members of the EU who will give their position at the Intergovernmental Conference in December of this year on the opening of one or two clusters. I would like to say that this report is truly a positive assessment of the country's progress made in the European integration process and that it gives clear messages when it comes to the willingness to expand, at times when Serbia meets the criteria for membership. Also, I want to say that when we look at the full text of the 2021 Report for Serbia, we see year by year that these economic criteria are very well evaluated, very well assessed and that Serbia has made some progress and a good level of preparedness with regard to the development of the market economy and that as many as 62 times there has been limited progress in as many as 15 chapters and that the notified moderate preparation of our country has been recorded. When we talk about economics, I just want to remind our citizens, I come from the township of Rakovica and by 2012 Serbia faced bankruptcy. I'm a witness to a cancer factory where we could see chains and locks. Over one night, tens of thousands of people were out of work, unable to finance their normal lives and their families. The government of the Republic of Serbia, together with President Aleksandar Vukic, is indeed making an enormous effort to preserve jobs and help everyone, both pensioners and unemployed and all full-time citizens and people living in KIM through different packages. During the adoption of the budget and the accompanying laws, you recently presented in the National Assembly information that we helped with as much as eight billion euros and that during 2020 and in 2021 and how we faced a number of challenges, but that we have somehow succeeded and that we have good news when it comes to reducing unemployment and that we are leaders in attracting foreign direct investment in the region of Southeast Europe, which we do not boast about ourselves but are worth others. You can find such posts today in world-renowned magazines from the Financial Times to the others. The level of foreign direct investment in Serbia from January to October this year exceeded 3,140 billion euros, making up more than 60% of the total foreign direct investment for the Western Balkans. Serbia actively participates in strengthening regional co-operation and developing good neighbourly relations. We are committed to strengthening bilateral relations in the enlargement process and we are supporting both Albania and Northern Macedonia to get a date for opening negotiations. We have also been active in all these previous years and in a number of regional initiatives such as the Berlin Process, a mini Shengen that precedes the "open Balkans" initiative made up of three Western Balkan states. Besides the Republic of Serbia, there are still northern Macedonia and Albania. I would like to remind all citizens and all of my fellow MPs that Serbia was some kind of regional vaccination centre during the coronary pandemic of the virus, that we donated more than 600,000 vaccines to the citizens of Northern Macedonia, the citizens of Montenegro and BiH, and that indeed, in the Republic of Serbia, thousands and thousands of not only of our citizens were vaccinated, but also citizens from neighbouring countries, from northern Macedonia, from Montenegro and BiH. This report also notes the role of the National Assembly in the process of European integration and appreciates its work during the previous reporting period, and has just been positively assessed by the National Assembly, that it has reduced the use of emergency procedures and that we have adopted the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. The role of the National Assembly is also important, not only in harmonising legislation with EU rules, but also in this supervisory function when we adopt certain negotiating positions and return them to the government for further development. The role of the National Assembly is also seen in Parliament's presidency, as our joint task is to bring the European integration process closer to all our citizens in order to get as broad a consensus as possible for this process. In August of this year, the European Integration Ministry, I would say, organises a public opinion survey every year and supports European integration was 57%. This support has changed in these previous years and ranged from 2017 to 2021 between 52% and 57%. As you said, Prime Minister, 57% is the result of support higher than in the previous five years. In the end, I want to say that there is really a lot that we have to do on our reform tower, that we have to devote more time to youth policies, youth policies, public policies, that children are and will remain our priority when we talk about the Law on Financial Support for Children, but also when we talk about all the other laws that we adopt as MPs. At the very end, indeed the last sentence, Serbia will continue to make its own decisions on the issue of internal and external policy, taking care of the protection of our national interest. We are often aware that the whole world is connected and that the crisis in one part of the world and how it can be spilled into another part of the world and that it is for small countries such as the Republic of Serbia and how important that we make decisions in the interest of a better quality of life, in the interest of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11229	Thank you, Mrs Stojkovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Amos Ujhelji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11230	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, the Presidency, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group will support the proposal for conclusions on the presentation of the European Commission report on the Republic of Serbia for 2021 because we believe that EU membership is the most important priority of our country. Our parliamentary group welcomes the decision that the European Commission's report is again on the agenda of the regular session because EU accession is a process in which not only the state participates, but society as a whole, and therefore it is important that, apart from the state administration in charge of implementing reforms, the process is understood and included in it by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia themselves. Understanding the process increases support, active participation by citizens, which inevitably leads to quality strategic decisions. Today, we are not only having a discussion on the European Commission's report, but also on how we want Serbia to look at the end of the negotiation process and we are all asking ourselves that we are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, we need to take all steps so that we, as responsible citizens at the end of the negotiations, can safely say that we are ready for Serbia to become a full member of the EU. Serbia shows commitment to European integration with all the difficulties that exist in both the EU and the region. It is dedicated to overcoming the burden of the past and implementing internal reforms, which is mostly said that the recently adopted budget of the Republic of Serbia fully corresponds to the Mastric Treaty, or the EU Treaty. This translates into figures means that in addition to the planned GDP increase of 4.5%, the fiscal deficit of the Republic of Serbia will be 3% and the general government's public debt will be 56.55%. Dear MPs, under the laws passed in the first half of 2021, it is clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia has given priority to reforms related to the EU and set the Agenda on the Rule of Law as one of its key priorities. The government has met a number of important, unsettled criteria within Cluster 3 and 4, so far, the Commission has recommended that these clusters be opened. The European Union has continued to provide essential support to the Republic of Serbia. It allocated 78.4m euros to Serbia for socio-economic recovery and 15m euros for urgent needs, such as medical equipment, support for vulnerable groups in society, and has engaged 200 additional medical workers to ease pressure on medical staff. In addition, nearly 12m euros were allocated to Serbia under the EU Solidarity Fund. The European Union has approved more than 27m euros in grants to Serbia to obtain vaccines from EU member states, as well as equipment. In terms of economic criteria, Serbia has made some progress and has been moderately prepared, i.e. it has achieved a good level of preparation for the development of the functional market economy. Our country's economy has seen only a slight decline in 2020 because the impact of the crisis caused by the Kovid 19 pandemic is tempered by a strong momentum before the crisis, significant and timely measures of fiscal and monetary policy, sectoral structure of the economy and the relatively low average severity of the control measures. The combined balances decreased during the crisis while their funding continued to be fully covered by foreign direct investment inflows. The fiscal space created before the crisis allows Serbia to provide significant fiscal support for crisis mitigation in 2020 or 2021 and to significantly increase capital consumption. The stability of the banking sector is preserved with strong credit growth, supported by a moratorium to pay off loans and measures to increase liquidity. The labour market registered a further reduction in unemployment in 2020. Some progress has been made in tax administration reforms and the privatisation of state-owned banks. Dear MPs, if known, are an instrument for pre-accession assistance, an EU financial instrument supporting an enlargement strategy aimed at helping candidates and potential candidates in the EU accession process. The priorities of this programme are to assist users countries in meeting political, economic and other criteria relating to the adoption of legal flows of the EU, building administrative capacity, strengthening justice, and helping countries prepare for the use of structural and cohesion funds after EU accession. Help should, among other things, support countries in their efforts to strengthen democratic institutions and rule of law, reform of state administration, reform of economy, respect for human and minority rights, improve regional co-operation, achieve sustainable development and reduce poverty. The Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance is a targeted mechanism created by the EU to successfully assist Southeast European and Turkish countries, the IPA is designed to focus support for reforms through a unique and flexible system from which citizens benefit directly, while countries receive additional assistance to achieve European standards. Through the allocation criteria, each country's capacity to use funds and manage funds is taken into account, as well as respect for the conditions for accession. Furthermore, IPA provides different forms of assistance to countries implementing reforms on their path to EU membership, the IPA offers an EU-related framework for management and gradual decentralisation or management carried over to users. In addition, it allows flexibility in the preparation of aid, IPA creates a strong link between the budgetary and strategic aspects of enlargement. It makes it clear to users countries what they can expect in terms of helping them meet their requirements. In this way, IPA further strengthens the guidelines that the EU further strengthens to candidate and potential candidate countries on the priorities to follow, primarily IPA helps these countries meet the Union's standards and values. In this way, IPA is a real investment in the future for the beneficiary countries, but also for the EU itself. Thanks to the IPA programmes, in recent years we have successfully achieved extremely important projects such as the construction of technical documentation for the Subotica – Baja railway, the revitalisation of the Begej navigation infrastructure, the construction of the Hungarian culture home in Palić, the construction of several kilometers of cycling trails in Subotica, the construction of the Raba border crossing – Kubekhaza etc. Under the European Commission's proposal, the EU should provide 14.5 billion euros in grants to IPA 3 to Southeast Europe and Turkey to finance projects that contribute to the implementation of political, economic and institutional reforms and progress of the European integration process by 2027. Dear People's MPs, the essence of the negotiation process is not only the opening of chapters, progress on the road to EU membership is not measured by the degree of readiness to assume the obligations arising from this membership. A real success can only be seen as meeting the necessary conditions for closing the chapter, because this means that Serbia is really ready to take over all its obligations. We believe that it is necessary to significantly improve public information on the necessary reforms regarding European integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11231	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11232	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Prime Minister, Mrs Brnabic, respected Minister Comic, respected Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Serbian Parliament I was elected from the list of Alexander Vukic-For our children and I represent the United Peasants' Party. In the framework of the report we're talking about here for 2021, I think that colleagues who spoke before me have said a lot of data, a lot of things that are visible, I can only say one thing that is visible, which just happened today, which is the beginning of the work of the Nis-Medara highway, which today our President Alexander Vukic opened, is now starting with the works, where in the next two, two and a half years this road will be completed. That's part of it. The second part will continue and it will mean something to every citizen living in that part of Serbia. It will mean anything to anyone who wants to get to Nis, to Belgrade and to do something about it. It's a big deal. That's what the EU is, that's what you see, that's what it feels like every moment. I think it's a good thing we're doing all this. Our citizens of Serbia have at some point certain things that are good. Sometimes something critical is said, but the bottom line is that our government, our president and we all work and we want to move towards the EU. The tendency of all of us is to get that standard, but, on the other hand, those things that happen around us and that maybe in one part aren't what we expect, these things have to change, and that's all we can do together. Today, the opening of the Peace Highway, today and tomorrow, will be more such works that will be good for each of our citizens. It is important to me that these chapters that are being opened, like Chapter 28 concerning health care, our country of Serbia... (President: Time. I have five minutes left from the parliamentary group, if we can use it. (President: You can't. You had a minute and 40, now you're at two and forty. I was tolerated. Here, I'm done. I can only say a few things about Chapter 28, which is very important, where our country is Serbia, and as far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, which is doing very well and successfully, and is fighting the crown, with Kovid, where great power is giving us this boost, because our country has provided vaccines and all that is needed, and this is done together with our government, with our president, with our health minister, Mr. Loncar. To this day, we are the "Right to Life - Mary" Association, which has received EU funding for the need for emergency assistance... (President: People's Parliament, time.) Here, I'm done. I'm just saying this, because it's a positive thing, because it concerns all of us. The health ministry will form a task force where we will have the opportunity to provide emergency assistance in these small areas if funds are provided. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, I will support the report. I think it is necessary for all of us to go to the EU, use and make the most of what is worth to us. Thanks again and don't mind me wasting a little more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11233	Thank you. Just to point out, your parliamentary group, that is, the head of the parliamentary group, has time. You can use that at the end of the debate. Now you've had a minute and a 40, and you've talked three and something. I think we're sticking to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word is a member of the Committee on European Integration, MP Vesna Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11234	Thank you, Chairman. Before I look back at certain parts of the European Commission report, which we are talking about today, I would like to stress that the European integration project was created as a peace project. We could hear this today, but to that I would add that after 70 years, it turns out that the best guarantee for peace, democracy and progress has proved to be also very successful in overcoming open issues between the current Member States, which can also be a significant message or should be an incentive for our region. Serbia, as an old European state, is connected not only geographically, but also culturally and economically with the countries with which we share, of course, the same continent, whether they are EU members or not, we share the same values and it is perfectly logical that we strive to become part of the world's most developed community. All of us who participate in this process, I mean the government of Serbia, the Ministry of European Integration and the National Assembly, our Committee on European Integration, are fully aware of the importance of the reforms we are implementing and what impact they will have on the development of our society in general. We are under these changed circumstances, circumstances where the whole world is very difficult to function in, I mean, the Kovid 19 pandemic, we have managed to continue our activities. This is recognised by this report, as for the first time all areas have been estimated to have made some progress. On the other hand, the report also showed that our main foreign policy goal is EU membership. But we need to be aware, all of us who are in this process, that the EU has been facing a number of challenges over the last few years, perhaps for the first of its founding, which are both Bregzit and the migrant crisis, the fight against terrorism, as of course this last challenge that I mention, the pandemic Kovida 19. All developments within the EU have contributed to different Member States' views on enlargement. Some countries believe it is necessary to implement internal reforms first, and only after that to talk about enlargement. However, I hope that these views will be consolidated and that everyone will see the benefits of the enlargement that is important for the stability of not only our region, but also for the stability of the EU itself. I mention all of this for one reason only, I am fully aware, and I believe all of us who are participating in this process, that negotiations are taking place in very difficult circumstances and that they have one specificity in relation to the negotiations that have been conducted by other member states, which is, for example, Chapter 35 - the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, which is currently taking place with the EU's intermediation. However, regardless of all these challenges, the new circumstances I mentioned, enlargement remained on the EU agenda. One of the best examples and perhaps to say the freshest is certainly the Brdo Declaration adopted on 6 October this year, in which EU leaders confirm their unequivocal support for the European perspective of the Western Balkans and welcome our commitment to the European perspective that is in our common strategic interest and remains our common strategic goal. The European Union has prepared an economic and investment plan and guidelines for implementing the Green Agenda for the Western Balkans. The plan includes an investment package worth around 30 billion euros for the region over the next seven years. Nine billion grants and 20 billion euros in investments. The plan should lead to long-term socio-economic recovery and competitiveness of the region, support green and digital transition, sustainable integration, regional integration, trade, which strengthens co-operation with the EU and the convergence of the EU, as well as climate change objectives. Serbia has received green light from the European Commission for the opening of cluster 4, this is the Green Agenda and sustainable integration. The cluster combines chapters related to transport, energy, trans-European networks, environmental protection and climate change. Our Green Agenda is in line with European regulations in the area. I believe that these evaluations in the European Commission report, but also the recommendation I mentioned by the European Commission, will lead to the opening of Chapter 4, but also Chapter 3, which are ready, and that Member States will accept this proposal. I would also refer briefly to part of the report concerning good neighbourly relations and regional co-operation. I will quote the part in the report that I think best describes all the advantages of regional co-operation, but also the benefits of the benefits we can have, and not just our region, but the European Union. It reads: "Good neighbourly relations and regional co-operation are a key part of Serbia's European integration process and contributes to stability, reconciliation and a suitable climate to address open bilateral issues and the legacy of the past. Serbia has continued its participation in a number of regional co-operation initiatives, such as CEFTA, the Energy Community, the Transport Community, the South East European Co-operation Process and the Regional Co-operation Council. The Kovida-19 disease pandemic has accelerated its ambition to improve regional integration, showing important links between the region's markets, as well as between the European Union and six economies in the Western Balkans region. At the summit in Sofia on 10 November 2020, six Western Balkan leaders adopted a Declaration on a common regional market, based on four freedoms – freedom of movement of goods, services, capital and people. This makes the most ambitious effort so far to achieve regional integration in the Western Balkans." What does the common regional market really mean? I have already said it is based on four freedoms, but it is also a springboard for the faster integration of the region with the single market of the European Union, even before accession. The common regional market will be key to increasing the attractiveness and competitiveness of our region. Speaking of the region, although we have taken important steps towards integration, I must point out that we, as MPs, are taking part in a number of regional initiatives. Every meeting with colleagues from the region contributes to deepening our co-operation, but also to better understanding, because we all have the same goal, which is membership in the European Union, although we are at different stages of this process, some countries have actually not received candidate status. I hope that happens soon. All these meetings I mentioned are very important to exchange experiences first and foremost in this area, which is our main foreign policy goal. Finally, I am pleased that in the National Assembly for the second time in a second year in a row, we are talking about the European Commission Report, because I think this is the best way for our citizens to be familiar with all the advantages we have from joining the most economically developed countries, but also with the standards that we introduce to our society, which will certainly improve our standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11235	I thank the MP Vesni Markovic. The word is made by MP Milan Radin, also a member of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11236	I thank you, Chairman. Listen to my colleagues, I don't want to repeat myself, but I have to repeat what the prime minister said, that the European Union is our largest foreign trade partner, that the European Union is one of the biggest donors, that the European Union is something that we are seeking, and I hope, to express my hope, that something like that will not be far away. But again, on the other hand, I have to say that I read this report and that there are a few things that don't exactly agree with what we've been listening to and what we've been listening to from our European partners, with what we've been doing here. I would just like to draw attention to page 39 where it is said, look, here we are talking about the official European Commission report, at station 39 where it stands, a report based on research by an NGO, which says over 93% of the time in the media is devoted to the ruling coalition. And now, I am a stubborn man, I had to find out who the report was, who wrote it, who did it, and I found it. That research is actually eight slides at Power Point. I'm very sorry that something like this happened in the report, the official report, again, underlining the European Commission. I don't believe it, I really don't believe it has anything to do with the people on the European mission, especially that it has nothing to do with the people in Brussels, for the simple reason that I've had the opportunity to work there and to communicate with them, and I know with what commitment and work they approach to reports like this, that it's not something that's easy to do. On the other hand, and related to this, just to point out, on page 107 of the same report, I would really like to read this, and I will explain to you why, it says: “RTS still does not meet its obligation to provide enough relevant content as a national broadcaster for all national minorities. Content intended for national minorities is limited to only one information emissions in Albanian to RTS2." I'm from Novi Sad, and Minister Comic is the same, and I grew up with TV, then called NS Plus, in my day, and before that Radio-Television Novi Sad. I can tell you that we are now talking about a ten-language broadcaster, of which nine languages are national minorities – Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian, Ukrainian, Roma, rebel, I missed some, someone will correct me. What's particularly frightening to me here is that this same sentence in the same formulation was found in last year's report, with how it is now on page 107, and last year it was on page 120, if I'm not mistaken. I was also forced to mention to the ambassador of former Mr. Sam Fabrizio, and I was assured that such a thing would be corrected, because I can't believe that something like that still stands here. We all know here, and the people at the gallery who listen to this know that something like that isn't true, but unfortunately for us, it's in the official report. That's what you were talking about, Mrs. Brnabic, about double standards. Yeah, I know, I get it, don't get me wrong, I don't think there's much bigger Eurofanatics in this room than me, Eurofanatics, that's what it's called. I really believe that it is our place in the European Union and that it is our future, but this is the kind of thing that we all have to do together. I'm afraid these aren't the only mistakes. Let's say, let's take an example, page 124 of the report, same as page 71, as regards energy efficiency and green energy transition. Whoever wrote this report definitely ignored the European Commission's decisions from the end of 2016, when Britain's Drax, a large power plant, a large plant in Great Britain, was given carbon neutral status, that it was not polluting, for one simple reason because it works on pellets, means on biomass. The problem is that biomass comes from Canada and South America, crossing the ocean by ships. And yet, if I'm not mistaken, the combustion process is the combustion process, whatever you're burning, you're on fire. I'm not the only one who figured that out. In the end, if I'm not mistaken, this year it's actually the same "Draks" as the largest polluter in the UK. And yet, if we're going to say that biomass is renewable, I think, and coal is then renewable, especially given the degree of restoration of the Amazon and the other forests from which it comes. Again, I don't believe something like this should discourage us. Moreover, something like this should make us do a little bit more work, work with our partners in the European Union, work with our partners in Brussels, with our friends, because I don't think it's their fault that something like this happened in the report. I believe it's domestic subcontractors' fault, if I may put it that way. I hope that the next report will be given a little more attention by those who draw it up, because the process of joining it is not a small matter. The accession process is extremely important for our country, one day I believe it will also be significant for the European Union, when we finally join, when we reach that stage. Until then, we have to work on it, we have to be committed to all this, and I know that this government is absolutely committed to the process of joining the European Union and European values, as seen from previous speakers. Again, I apologize for having to be the bearer, how can I say, not very bad news, but someone who had to get a little bit more into those details and I hope again that the following reports will maintain a little more reality, again I can't say that there is no such chapter on economics is a great description. I am pleased that the EU has recognised economic momentum and this is said to be here, that Serbia in a global crisis that has hit the world because of the Kovid-19 pandemic has maintained its economic success only thanks to a previous swing that has been violent. I am glad they recognize the huge decline in unemployment in the Republic of Serbia, as well as GDP growth. I hope that something like this will also be visible in the next European Commission reports, especially in the areas of human rights where huge successes and shifts and steps have undoubtedly been made, in the area of media freedom. I wouldn't get too into it right now, there's a few more things here that aren't very good at painting the situation, let's say it's written again, marked again, about culture, about freedom of artistic expression. There are some grudges. There is no objection to the creative rage that Mr. Vidojkovic expressed. I mean, we're seeing these double standards again even in our society. So I just hope that they will be recognized, I repeat again, I know, but what I will do, will be recognized in the next European Commission report and will be significantly, significantly better regarding some of these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11237	Dear People's MP, if I were to answer your TV and RTS now, then it would be an abuse of my function, I would give the word of Minister for Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue Gordani Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11238	Thank you. I thank you for the shared and accurate reading of the report. Before I answer what we did, because we read it as a recommendation, just to remind all of us, the report that's in front of you is being made based on the data we give. It is often forgotten in public and, of course, what is said, data from a shadow or consultation with alternative data providers about what happened in Serbia in a year. Then through several levels of consultation comes to a document that has been adopted, so now it's before you and we all have opportunities to either participate or comment on what the state authorities are giving data. Serbia's state authorities are making the data report, so it is good that we are working much more on data, and in this it is a great result that has been achieved by the Digitalisation Strategy launched by the prime minister before the government's mandate. So, what's a grudge is in dialogue with RTS director, we're waiting for results, as a programming editorial on RTS, not on RTS, where there will be languages that are not otherwise available in the Directorates of the Public Service Radio Television Vojvodina, such as Albanian, Roma, Bulgarian and Vlachs, etc. The furthest deal went with the Roma national minority, the Bulgarian national minority and the Albanian national minority, and we are still waiting for finalisation in the framework of the RTS Public Service, as well as to discuss what national minorities have as a proposal or as comments on minority language programmes. So, even in the time when they react and in the topic itself, it is the coordination of national minorities, I have indeed achieved a consensus that is much more important for most of the good information programme to get enough information about a minority living in Serbia. We have even had experience in the tours that, for example, we have received questions as to why the Russians came to Serbia? What we said probably they don't know about, but they came long ago, as did the Slovaks or Hungarians who have always been there. So you simply have this lack of information that most should get through information programs in minority languages that have been titled or transmitted. Therefore, the public service of RTS is important not to bring down information about minorities on how great they cook, sing or dance even better. We share that together as a common cultural heritage. That's about the explanation. State Secretary Olena Papuga is in charge of the process at the Ministry and she maintains regular communication with RTS in order to really raise the level of information in other languages that traditionally, routinely, have editorials on RT Vojvodina. That's our goal, to get through the differences the better we get to know each other and to see what a huge part of history we share. It is generally what we consider to be the law of the National Councils on Information, Education, Culture, Official Use of Language and Letters, that this is something that we need to do with dialogue, to make the common benefit better. I fully agree with you, you should read carefully, monitor carefully and see what data is given, because once you give the information, then he will enter the report because it is from the country on which the report is being made. That's why this kind of debate that you've organized is precious, because it's being followed by people who write reports and then correct their approach or how to collect data for the next report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11239	Thank you. Milan Radin, straight to replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11240	Thank you. Minister, I'm not sure we understand each other. My grudge here was why TV wasn't included in the report. I understand that the data here comes from both state institutions and from what you said in the shadows. I'm worried about her being in the shadows. That's what I just said which is some of what was presented as research, actually a slide show with eight slides. Take away that headline slide, seven slides, seven pictures. Now, as far as I can remember, the methodology of scientific work and scientific research, it takes a little more than seven slides. What I'm most afraid of is that something that's undermining ends up in your report. That's what I told you, this is the second time that this formulation appears, that TV is completely erased, that TV doesn't exist as a media service here that, I say, broadcasts in ten languages, among other things, in Roma. That's what you said there isn't, there's Roma on TV. I understand that I may have had to go because of the rest of the population on RTS, but that's another question now, it exists. So I'm telling you, tell you that I'm a patriot or whatever you want, but I think something like that should be painted in this report, that we need the right state, we're not looking for anything that isn't, just what's the right state to be painted in the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11241	The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11242	Let me just add something short. You've certainly had the chance to see me quite frustrated and emotional about some previous progress reports and as someone who hasn't had much experience in politics, I have to say that it was completely vague, unacceptable, unprofessional, but it is. I don't think there's a meeting going on that when something like this happens, we don't draw our partners from the EU's attention to it. There are worse examples than this. This report is, in that sense, the best we've ever had. I remember, I really remember when one of the tycoon media published as breaking news that their whole letter to Brussels ended up in our progress report. It's repainted. So what they wrote from their angle, their complaints, someone actually just painted it in the Progress Report, which is extremely incorrect, but that's right. We've been since then, as you say, that's life, and I like that attitude, because that's how it is. We have to keep working and we have to do even more. We learned some things at the time, I personally learned how it was going, and then I was in the term of this government right from the first month I started making a monthly progress report in the area of rule of law, and so we gave each month what was done and what were all the concrete results, and from month to month we added things that we did in that month, by marking it red, to see exactly what was new. So, completely transparent about all the information. I said, at the end of this government's term, I'm going to publish one book that we've done in the area of the rule of law, so I can see that it's not enough for progress. And here, we did that, and after six months we saw finally progress, because no one could say no progress and they were really quite concrete, tangible results that they had to accept and admit. But if there are, as Minister Comic says, various influences exist, and we end up having to talk about it all the time because it's our Progress Report, it has to be objective, it has to be impartial. It must not involve personal impressions, the impressions of various NGOs, however important NGOs may be. But it's neither personal impression nor me as Prime Minister nor any media or any NGO, it's a report on what's been done and what we're currently getting from the results. If there were such things, there are only fewer, but it's good, we've learned how to solve it. I would now take this opportunity for one, and also an important thing, I have issued a statement through the media. That's something I talked about earlier during the debate. So, you see when the report is not objective enough and when certain things are not said clearly enough, such as the European Commission's Progress Report, where we said -- you can't treat Belgrade and Pristina as well and you can't keep repeating the same formulas from the report in the report, because if nothing changes in the new report compared to the old report, you are practically commending the lack of progress. Today we saw again that temporary institutions in Pristina banned the entry into the territory of KIM Petar Petkovic, and this is the fifth time only during 2021 that he was banned from entering, and even worse this ban comes days after the EU clearly told Pristina that it should not work and that it must respect the Agreement and allow Petra Pektovic to enter the KIM territory, i.e. crossing the administrative border. So that's what the EU said clearly. After a few days, Pristina said - no, you can't come in. You understand, that's why when you're not clear enough in official reports and you're not talking about things that are important for the implementation of international agreements. So, I ask the EU today – how long? This is the fifth time this year alone to ban the Director of the KIM Office and our negotiator from entering AP KIM territory, from crossing the administrative line. How long will the EU suffer? So, what's gonna be the next reaction, or we're just gonna hear it soft again, please, come on, let it go, and then they're gonna let it go, and then they're gonna ban it again in a month. When will the European Parliament's rapporteur for Kosovo and Metohija, Mrs Viola von Kramon, who deals with all issues in central Serbia, from mining to beetles, finally declare on this issue? But that's why she hasn't responded once to the ban on Peter Petkovic's entry, and on the subject of the shooting of special units to Ross by the naked Serb people, she came forward by saying it was for the utmost respect and that it was the rule of law. Well, here's what I'm really asking again. How long till like this? What reactions will follow now? Again, this is not out of the question because this is also the subject of the Progress Report, which when not written in a way that gives the right picture of what happens then, practically puts the wind in the back, in this case temporary institutions in Pristina to continue to act as they behave and not only not to implement the Brussels Agreement in the domain of implementation, i.e. creation, formation of communities of Serb municipalities, but also in the domain of the most ordinary freedom of movement and that for our negotiator. These things must be clearly said to change and we will not give up on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11243	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11244	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. The Honorable Prime Minister, Mrs Brnabic, distinguished Mrs Comic, respected colleagues and colleagues, Serbian citizens, I will really use the shortest possible time from the time that belongs to the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, above all, and to apologize for not being present today, but under justifiable circumstances. This is an important topic, and I am sure that my colleagues have spoken in the most qualitative way about everything that is ahead of us in terms of conclusions and on the subject of the European Commission Report. I can't help but repeat what you said, dear Prime Minister, which is that perhaps the biggest bitterness and bitter taste in the mouth leaves the fact that these double arches are always present, that Serbia is always viewed from an unreal angle, that we hear very often an identical warning for Belgrade and Pristina, although there is a big difference between what Belgrade and Pristina are doing. Ahead of Belgrade, which is ready to discuss everything is Pristina, which except that it is not ready to talk and what was once agreed absolutely does not want to implement. Our resolve, and we have talked about it over the past years when it comes to the European path is clear. We do not have a dilemma, and we have said countless times as the ruling majority and almost all MPs in this room, but on the other hand, somehow there is no respect, somehow a difficult man endures the moment in which the European Commission's report is good, but the opening of the cluster is delayed under some excuses that are completely unwarranted, under the pretext of the referendum we issued two days ago. It's actually this story that's hard, that's hard to digest, that we all as humans have a hard time putting up with and we can't understand. But on the other hand, you mentioned perhaps the loudest of them that has, I'm convinced, personal motives. For decades back, we've been looking at all these prominent purchased speakers of what should be Pristina's idea. It is no longer their independent Kosovo, it is unfortunately a major Albania that is not only a danger to Serbia, it is a danger to the whole region and it is a danger to this very Europe which, I am almost convinced, does not recognise this danger well or thinks it will not happen. We can't stop people who were bought to deal with the way they deal. We will not offer more money to international policy because we have no money unlike Pristina to provide funds we have not traded to people, nor bodies we have not killed, we have not expelled, we have not destroyed, there is nothing left behind. They're forgiven for everything. With one strong faith, above all in humanity and in that the time that lies ahead will change, that it will change the relationship, that it will build awareness, that it will overcome that reason that exists in Europe, that we will not be unjust, there are among European officials who understand very much what this is about, I hope that it will recognize what the dark side is, and what the lights of this whole story and I firmly believe that everything we do from this moment on, as everything we've done here has been done in support of Serbia going the way forward, and it is seen that we are a constructive associate, that we are always for discussion, that we are the creators of the idea of the "Open Balkans", perhaps at some point, recognize our good will and decide to respect it in spite of the balance on any one of them. The People's MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia will certainly support the conclusions proposed by the Committee in the day of voting and I believe that Mrs Kovac and her committee have done it to perfection, as I have always said, again, in the hope that we will discuss a further report with perhaps less bitter than we, unfortunately, have reason to be now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11245	Thank you. The next one has been reported with Ana Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11246	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us a proposal for a conclusion on the European Commission's report on Serbia's 2021 progress report. The fact that such a report was again held at the National Assembly session shows that we are permanently defined and fully committed to the EU accession process. The report is an instrument measuring once a year the degree of progress and reforms in all 35 chapters. Despite severe epidemiological circumstances, the report shows that there is no setback in any particular area, confirming that Serbia is committed to reforms and the EU accession process. The government of the Republic of Serbia runs a policy of continuity in the process of European integration and the fact that in 2017 we were the only one to form the Ministry of European Integration, as well as that we accepted a completely new methodology so-called. The cluster methodology once again proves that we are serious and determined to implement all necessary reforms and pass the necessary laws to speed up the EU accession process. The Republic of Serbia and its negotiating team are working hard to adapt the existing structures to a new methodology, with expectations that the results so far, as well as reforms implemented by the Republic of Serbia, will be adequately valorised by relevant European institutions. I think it is important to strengthen a positive attitude towards enlargement policy and to make an additional impulse. The new methodology has put an additional political emphasis on the whole negotiation process and has brought additional credibility to the whole process. Also, the Republic of Serbia, along with existing capacities, has managed to ensure that this process goes smoothly with mutual respect and respect. What is particularly important is the European Commission's recommendation to open two clusters, Cluster 3, which concerns competitiveness and inclusiveness and Cluster 4, which relate to the Green Agenda and sustainable integration. The European Union implements reform processes through financial instruments, i.e. It helps and thus connects the region. We have an economic-investment plan. It is a programme for the recovery of the Western Balkans and, according to the Commission's assessment, Serbia is the potential of the Western Balkans, as it is working daily to strengthen regional co-operation and good neighbourly relations. Serbia is also the bearer and active participant of numerous regional initiatives that include the needs of the Western Balkans. One of the initiatives launched by President Aleksandar Vukic, "Open Balkans", means establishing free movement of people, goods, capital and services in the Western Balkans. The creation of a single regional market will regulate a number of trade regulations, customs and tax policies, but will further highlight the European commitment of all countries in the region, with clear and concrete results, which will be visible both to the economy and to the citizens. What is essential to us is to preserve peace and stability in the region, where we work daily. The European Commission found in its report that Serbia has maintained European integration as its strategic goal, and gave positive reviews and commendations according to all economic criteria. Despite the pandemic of the virus, we managed to remain the leader of economic reforms and at a good level of preparedness in developing a funkional market economy. We have reduced unemployment, budget deficits and responsible fiscal policy, we have managed to preserve economic stability, achieve good results in the economy and have a large number of direct foreign investment. The report also found that moderate progress has been made in the fight against corruption and organised crime. To a large extent, a legislative and institutional framework for respect for fundamental rights has been established, and what we need to take care of is a consistent and effective application. Reform in the area of government is a right of fundamental importance and co-operation with EU institutions is a good way to improve this area. We have implemented reforms in the area of justice by harmonising and adopting adequate institutional and legislative frameworks. Some of the reforms are structural, some long-term, and what is important is that Serbia adopted recommendations from the Venice Commission when it comes to constitutional changes to strengthen judicial independence. The European Commission also found that the assembly reduced the number of laws passed by emergency procedure, as well as earlier obstructions of parliament's work. We also adopted a new Code of Conduct of People's MPs, which certainly contributed to a greater degree of mutual tolerance, as well as the quality of political debate in the National Assembly. The National Assembly has very successfully organised a dialogue on improving electoral conditions through the format of the Interparty Dialogue with the intervention of the European Parliament, which was attended by representatives of the ruling majority and the opposition, in order to improve the electoral framework for the upcoming elections. But what is certainly not in line with European values and standards is daily threats and insults to President Aleksandr Vukic and his family, who come from individuals hiding behind different civil organisations and media, who act purely politically. It is clear why it is necessary and why we must criticise it, because it is certainly not acceptable in civilised society. This report is an incentive to speed up reforms, but it also gives us guidance on what is needed to improve this whole process. The European Union is a natural space for Serbia. We are committed to reforming and adopting European values and standards in all areas. We are aware that the EU is Serbia's most important trading investment partner, but that our citizens' interests are our first priority. Our goal is to improve the quality of life of all citizens and to make them feel better through better life, investment and rule of law, but also to preserve our culture, tradition and history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11247	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 96? The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11248	Thank you, Vice President. President, who has just arrived, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try, on behalf of the Commissioners of the Conclusions, to make something rather than a conclusion, to have a retrospective one and to talk a little bit more about percentages, research, concrete support data or what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia think, and to end up talking about what we've gotten all by being a candidate for membership, by supporting us by the EU. I'm going to talk about concrete projects, about concrete money, about the visible advantages of that path we're on. So, in March 2021, a public opinion survey was carried out. The views of Serbian citizens towards the EU worked by the Institute for European Affairs, based on the results of this survey, when it comes to information on the EU itself, is very interesting that 39% of citizens believe they have, while the same percentage of citizens feel that there is insufficient information on the EU. Compared to some of the previous research waves, related to the same issue, a slight decline in those who do not have information has been observed, hence uninformed citizens about the EU. The largest number of respondents in this survey said that EU information expects it to receive 32% through the media, then more than 28% from the government of the Republic of Serbia, from the EU itself 11.7%, from parliament, so of us, 9.7% from NGOs, slightly more than 9%, schools, college 6.4%, while other responses appear slightly, means less than 2%. It is interesting that nearly half of Serbia's 47.6% of Serbian citizens consider the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the EU to be the average rating of three, 53% of respondents supports Serbia's EU membership, 35% has the opposite view, 59% think Serbia has the benefit of co-operation with the EU, encourages that the majority, while 25% of citizens believe that Serbia does not benefit from co-operation with the EU, 17.9% of respondents believe that Serbia is the biggest friend, first of all, Greece, 10.5% says France, slightly less than 8.6% and 7.6% say Serbia is Hungary's biggest friend. A second survey of July 26th this year, i.e. a survey conducted by the EU delegation for the needs of the EU delegation, says citizens would like to be better informed about the EU and the EU integration process, 55% of citizens believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia and only the European Integration Ministry are primarily responsible for communicating on the effects of Serbia's EU accession, 54% of respondents support Serbia's EU accession, while one third of this research is against. According to the delegation's statement, counting those who have not expressed their opinion, a referendum based on these data would lead to the following results: 62% of citizens for, 38% against. So 6:38 in favour of EU accession. More than 40% of respondents know the EU is the largest donor in Serbia. The survey mentioned by the prominent prime minister, Prime Minister, the European Integration Ministry, which is regularly done, has been 57% since August of this year for EU accession, and last year it was 49%, while in 2019 it was 54%. The EU's accession, based on this August 30% survey, last year was 33% and in 2019 it was 24%. And let's talk a little bit about money, projects, concrete investments and benefits. The European Union has supported more than 300 projects across Serbia in 17 sectors between 2007 and 2020, providing 2.79 billion euros through pre-accession funds and 6.5 billion euros in favourable loans. The European Union has defined 78.4m euros for Serbia's socio-economic development and 15m euros for the necessary needs such as, during the pandemic, medical equipment, support for vulnerable population groups and in particular, what has been heard today in one of the discussions, the employment of 200 medical workers. In addition, nearly 12m euros have been allocated from the so-called. The EU Solidarity Fund, the EU has provided a grant of over 27m euros to allow Serbia to buy vaccines from EU member states, as well as vaccination equipment. Serbia also benefited from a sevenm-euro regional project implemented by the World Health Organization, which was the support of the Western Balkan countries' vaccination. By October 2021, Serbia received about 8.3 million vaccines from different suppliers, and in early April 2021, the EU provided 32 freezers, 33 vaccine refrigerators, with the help of the UN Office for Project Services for 26 different health institutions throughout Serbia. The value of the donation is almost 500,000 euros. The necessary equipment, and we heard it in one of the discussions, received among others: Institute of Virology, Vaccines and Serums “Torlak”, as well as the Institute of Public Health “Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut”, then seduced for public health in Subotica, Sombor, Pancheva, Čačka, Kraljev, Čuprija, Vranja, Pirota, Valjevo, etc. From the IPA two programmes, Serbia received 1.5 billion euros for the period from 2014 to 2020. Serbia participates with the support of IPA and various European programmes, such as Horizon 2020, COSME, Erasmus Plus, Creative Europe, Europe for Citizens, Employment and Social Innovation, etc. As far as agriculture is concerned, it's a little bit of a talk, and I find it extremely significant. Since 2000, EU support for agriculture and rural development has been worth more than 230m euros, IPARD 2 175m from 2014 to 2020. At the end of October 2021, the situation at the end of October of this year, in particular, that the IPARD two total approved 771 projects worth 129m euros, totaling 458 projects worth nearly 25m euros. The IPARD three programme will be implemented between 2021 and 2027. The indicative budget is 288m euros. Traffic and infrastructure. EU traffic support is worth more than 64.8m euros for the period, again, from 2014 to today. The IPA funds have been reconstructed, among other things, by the ship's translation at Gjerdap, and by the EU's 11m-euro donation. It's an extremely significant education. If we have been counting since 2003, the EU has donated over 100m euros to education infrastructure and equipment procurement. More than 300 primary and secondary schools have been renovated, equipped and modernised by EU 27 colleges, research centres, equipped with modern equipment, and numerous laboratories have been equipped. Among them is new equipment for the chemical laboratory of the Agricultural School in Vrsac. Equipment for agricultural schools worth 2.8m euros has been obtained. The rule of law. Currently, 19 projects are being implemented in Serbia in the area of the rule of law. More than 163m euros were invested for the period from 2014 to 2020. Of the total assistance in the area of rule of law, 40% of the funds have been allocated to reconstruct and build new court buildings, funded by the training of judges, prosecutors etc. Emergency situation. The esteemed deputy president of the European Integration Committee mentioned that 20% of the total funds were allocated from IPA 2 and that Serbia received 89m euros for the floods that hit it in 2015. To deal with the migrant crisis, Serbia received 100m euros, and during the pandemic caused by the 67m-euro coronary. Social inclusion. Since 2016, the EU has donated and invested more than 115m euros to improve the life standard at stake during this period. Local self-government units, social work centres and NGOs have successfully implemented more than 60 projects in 110 different cities of Serbia, cities and municipalities, bringing direct benefits to more than 15,000 people across the country. The July 19th information -- then worth 10.2m euros, aimed at implementing social housing projects and active inclusion in 19 units of local self-government. These funds provided an adequate housing solution for 421 families for more than a thousand and a half people in sensitive categories. These 19 local self-government include, for example, Kula, Lebane, Loznica, Odžci, Pančevo, Raška, Topola, Čačak, Vrsac and Šabac. I think this is more than enough for citizens to be informed and see the advantages of approaching and then entering and full membership of Serbia into the EU. In the voting day which is clearly approaching us, I would like to ask the MPs' support for the conclusions regarding the discussion of the European Commission's report, members of the committee, or those MPs who are interested in European integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-0.u11249	Thank you. Do the government's representatives want a word? (No) Since there are no more reports, I am concluding a joint single search. According to Article 87(5), Rules of Procedure, I order Thursday, December 2nd, 2021, starting at 6:00 p.m. as a day for voting on the agenda points of the ninth session of the Second Regular Session in 2021. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please take your seats. Before we make a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 162 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda. I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of a European Commission report on the Republic of Serbia for 2021, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 167 for – 165, not two. I find that the National Assembly accepted the proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2021. The second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 167 for – 166, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Before I close the session, I'll just remind you that I called the 11th session of the Second Regular Session on Tuesday, December 7th, at 10:00 p.m. The items of the agenda are: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Service Employees; then Law on the Public Sector Payments System; Law on Salaries of Public Agency Employees and Other Organisations set up by the Republic of Serbia, the Region or the Units of Local Self-Government; Law on the Payments of Officials and Deputys in the Authorities of the Region and the Units of Local Self-Government; Law on patents and the International Agreement with Mongolia on Trade and Economic Co-operation and Guarantee of Serbia under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia". So depending on whether there are amendments or no amendments you plan on Tuesday, Wednesday... I mean, I'm not asking you to submit amendments, I'm asking you to plan. So it's up to you whether we're working Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday or just Tuesday and Wednesday. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Thank you.
