ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 124 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the sitting. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 153 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word is Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6308	Thank you, Your Honor. Today is the 11th day of the Bosniak national flag in the Republic of Serbia and I am taking the opportunity to ask all Bosniaks before I wish this day Mubarek Olsun hairli and happy, in accordance with their culture and tradition, to spend this holiday in the family environment and according to how our beautiful tradition demands it. The Justice and Reconciliation Party is a party that primarily stems from the Bosniak National Corps, but with its programme, with its ideas and, above all, with its leader who has shown the breadth and intellectual and political and promotional reconciliation policy has become a supranational project, so today we represent not only Bosniaks, but voters from the majority people, but also other national communities that have given confidence to the parties to Justice and Reconciliation in the previous elections. With that in mind, we are obliged to be here as representatives of the people and the microphone of all our voters. So today I will take the opportunity to speak to the Roma national community in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and at the request of a large number of our members and voters from this national Corps. This is the national community that is most sensitive in our society and which as such faces major challenges and integration problems. According to their unofficial data, they count between 500 and 800,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia and therefore their demands for greater inclusion are justified. With this in mind, I am asking more questions to the authorities in the executive authority, with the intention of encouraging and launching certain processes that will enable this community to have a better standard of living. So first of all, we have very high-quality laws when it comes to collective-individual community rights. However, what we have always said about national communities is their application in practice. So it is very noticeable and the Roma feel very well that equal representation in the state system of their members is not what their number is, especially in those environments where they make an enviable figure in local citizenship. It would therefore be important to take as much action as possible by the state as possible, to bring it down through the ministries and local communities, to include more Roma in all the structures of the executive authorities and all other institutions that allow them to get regular employment in accordance with their competences and education. Also, one of the main problems is the issue for the Ministry of Education. It's about schooling in the Roma language. In the state of Serbia, only a few years ago were written several textbooks in the Roma language, and this textbooks for teaching in Roma language with elements of national culture for primary school students until the fourth grade, and was then conducted in collaboration with European institutions and the particular training of this teaching staff, and there are only 47 teachers, teachers, educators with such competence. There is an disproportionate number of teachers, professors, teachers who need to teach that class with the number of Roma students. We have schools in the state of Serbia with over 50% of Roma population students, and there are no teaching staff in them, and very often there are no technical staff who are Roma nationalities. The question for the Ministry of Education is when and whether or not it is even considering launching a truly comprehensive process of including the teaching staff of Roma nationality in teaching processes and introducing compulsory teaching for children of the Roma population where legal conditions and frameworks exist. Also, one request to the census institution, I will conclude, is that, in the upcoming Roma census among each Roma censusor, there is also one member of the Roma nationality, so that they are free to show their national commitment and thus to show a real number of members of the Roma nation in the list of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6309	The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6310	Thank you, Vice President. My question today is addressed to the Ministry of the Interior. We had an unpleasant situation at the last day of the session last week, which is that there was some protest organized that seemed to me to have some request to disband this assembly, a shift president or whatever. It is not the subject nor the number of this protest, nor what the demands were, how much is the subject of what the MPs who left the assembly after the end of the session. One percent of SNS colleagues were attacked with physical stones, one percent brutally offended. What was said to the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, it's all just not normal and it's not brought up. The greatest sadness is actually happening at a time when they have some features in view of some icons. From what I understand, it's people who are being cleared from the SPC, which means they're trying to abuse it, too. However, what we've all been used to, we've read about ourselves, we've heard all sorts of things as a definition, is a physical blow to an esteemed colleague, Djolet Milicevic, when he tried to leave the assembly parking lot, they literally turned him over by inviting him to deal with it. I especially respond emotionally to this because I am talking about Djorđa Milicevic, who, you know, is in serious health problems today. That you are insulting, that you are attacking, that you have the idea that some changes are happening in a way that you will attack these ladies of the Serbian Parliament or that you will call for the account of Djolet Milicovic or any of you, which will call children by ugly names, characterise women, that is no longer the case that is happening in Serbia, but becomes one practice. It becomes one model that, I'm afraid, anyone who has a personal problem, so if you want health care, it shows its diagnosis right in front of Serbia's parliament. This tradition since the attack on counterpart Marijan Rističević cannot become something that is not allowed, but becomes something that is practice, something that is needed, something that we absorb from time to time. Why, I'm asking the Home Office? I know that Serbia is a country where everyone has the right to express their dissatisfaction. I know we'll never get to the point of banning the gathering, but on the other hand, I ask that when such gatherings are registered, pay attention to who the organizers are, and therefore make a security assessment of who the organizers are. Thirdly, it would not be impossible to legitimateize people who have come, because they use such opportunities that mostly, I said earlier, do not show their dissatisfaction, but try to deal physically with people who are unsympathic to them for this or that reason. So, I appeal to the Ministry of the Interior, that when it comes to the protests that are taking place, unbound whether they are in front of the Serbian Parliament, unrelated to whether they are in front of another state institution or simply protesting, paying attention to the organisers, assessing the security risk of such protests, and ultimately, where there is a risk and not allowing them to be held. You know, if we're supposed to be people who just because we're public figures exposed to some kind of lynching, it's lucky that Djordje Milicevic passed without consequences, my colleague Risticevic didn't, what happens every third time? Shall we wait for any of us to actually experience more serious injuries and then act as institutions? I am saying this fully consciously from the parliament of the Republic of Serbia because I really think everyone has the right to seek our shift to challenge the right of people who have given us confidence that they may have been wrong, but no one has the right to be physically, for the sake of inexplicability, accounted for by anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6311	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6312	Dear fellow Members and colleagues, distinguished countrymen watching this Assembly, I will remind you that we are in the last week of the holy month of Ramadan, when Muslims are particularly committed to prayer, especially dedicated to doing good works and solidarity. However, this harmonic, beautiful moment for all Muslims has been cut off and has aroused the really ugly scenes that come from Jerusalem, where terrible terror and violence are being carried out and carried out on believers in a large complex, the great Islamic center of Al-Aksa. The situation is really threatening to escalate. There are already a large number of Palestinians and children killed in this brutal attack. And this is something that has condemned the entire cultural and the entire modern world. Look at the statements from Putin, of all the other dignitaries, including Beyden, condemns violence. Political implementation, I say, is condemned in a violent way. Basically, it is a desire to use force and violence to achieve political goals and impose a political solution by Israeli authorities, which is the occupation of Jerusalem, which today is a common city of all those who live there, which is, I will remind you, Israelis and Palestinians. But the Palestinians are not only Muslims, but they're very numerous and Orthodox, let's say, confession, which is second in numbers, and which has also suffered really great pressures for years and has no ability to exercise its general rights, the general human right to life and to carry out religious rituals. The Israelis, contrary to the UN Security Council's decision, I say, are forced to occupy all Jerusalem and declare it the capital of Israel. I deeply believe in Montescay's thesis that when a lot of evil appears in one country or on earth, it takes faith and religion is the one that needs to give a lot of reasons for reconciliation. So I call on all the religious communities in our country, I call on all the organisations involved in the preservation of human rights in this country to condemn any violence, especially this violence against civilians and this terror that is being carried out in Jerusalem and to appeal to a peaceful and just solution that is in everyone's best interest. Peace in Palestine and a fair solution to the Palestinian issue is the key not only to the stability of the Middle East, but to good and good interreligious relations throughout the world. Of course, I also want to remind all of you that today is one of the national holidays of Bosniaks in this country, that is the National Flag Day, which is a symbol of, to say, the national unity of Bosniaks and the desire for prosperity, but that and the witnesses, this holiday of traditional, good neighbourly relations and the co-operation of Bosniaks with other national communities in these areas. So I want to congratulate the Bosniaks on this holiday, in order to experience a common prosperous future in this country together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6313	Thank you, Mr. Butcher. The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6314	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, imagine you're Dragan Gilas. Imagine being Dragan Gilas and having to come up with new and new ideas every morning how to construct an affair through your media, which would distract the public from your millions of accounts abroad. Imagine you're Dragan Gilas, so you've got to do whatever you want to do to cover up the company tracks and the companies you started in the white world. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas, so that you must also actually have the main concern of being the level of tax rates in Mauritius, Hong Kong, Switzerland and other tax havens. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas and that every morning you have to think of a way to try and downplay some of the results that Serbia has achieved on any subject. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas and that every day you have to come up with a new lie and a new invention directed against Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas and that you truly hate every success of Serbia. Imagine that you are Dragan Djilas and that every day you have to give new tasks to Marinika Tepic, Borko Stefanovic and the rest of the sad team. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas and that through the media you control, you are campaigning in a senseless way against everything that has to do with Alexander Vukic, regardless of whether it is good for the state and the citizens of Serbia. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas and that you are powerless to the fact that Serbia is among the best countries in the world when it comes to population vaccination. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas and that you are completely powerless in front of the fact that Serbia is among the countries with the largest economic growth despite the pandemic of the virus's coronary. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas and, despite the tremendous effort you are making, you cannot in any way dispute the fact that Serbia today has an incomparably greater reputation in the world than, I would say, in who knows how many decades ago. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas and that you are absolutely powerless in front of the fact that Serbia today is the most military force in this part of Europe. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas and that you are powerless before the fact that more than three billion euros of foreign direct investment arrived in Serbia in 2020, which is twice as much as it entered four countries in the region together, so total. Imagine you're Dragan Gilas and you can't argue that Serbia has never had more isolation for its people outside Serbia, so for Serbs in the region. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas and there is absolutely nothing you can do to challenge the fact that Serbia today is an uncut leader in the Balkans. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas and that you are able to attack even measures of financial assistance to citizens affected by the crisis due to the crown of the virus. Imagine being Dragan Gilas and using even your children to shed false tears in front of the cameras while, at the same time, you run a dirty campaign through your media against children, but your political opponents. Imagine that Dragan Djilas and no matter how hard you try, you are unable to undo the fact that Serbia today is a decent and successful country, light years away from that Serbia led by both Tadic and Jeremic and Borko Stefanovic and Marinika Tepic and Ponos and Lutovac and all others from that pest team. Imagine that you are Dragan Gilas and you know that your rating is such that your censorship, the transition of censors, is a mental noun, and then again, you re-emphasise pointless demands and nebulous ultimatums. Imagine that you had a monopoly on the pre-sales of advertising TV seconds on RTS and other TVs and seduced the full media darkness in Serbia, and today you have a minimum of two TVs from which you run the campaign 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and you are still looking for a national frequency for those two TVs. Imagine that you were Dragan Gilas and that you were Belgrade's worst mayor in history, whose mandates were marked exclusively by a number of corruption scandals and a multimillion-dollar corruption affair. Imagine being Dragan Gilas and having 619m euros and not being able to find a way to explain to people where you got that money. Imagine how sad that is. Imagine how sad that man is. Fortunately, Serbian citizens do not trust that and such Gilas and his media while support for Alexander Vukic is measured in millions of citizens who support him, as the elections will show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6315	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, we're moving on. I would like to inform you that it was prevented the session from being attended by Parliament MP Jelisaveta Veljkovic. You have been presented the minutes of the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Issues has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has made a written complaint to that minutes and that is why we are moving to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 8th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 15 and 20 April 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: total - 183, for - 170, it did not vote - 13. I find the 8th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 15 and 20 April 2021, the National Assembly adopted. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Article 192(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to supplement the proposed agenda and a proposal to merge the debate. National MP Ana Karadzic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic, Bojan Torbica, on 16 November 2020. The word is Anna Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6316	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, I am speaking for what time I am addressing the formation of a committee to examine and determine the exact number of NATO bombing victims, i.e. NATO aggression. For the first time, we have proposed this in the previous term and since then we have proposed every session. Neither the citizens of Serbia nor the families of the victims are interested in how many terms have passed, how many sessions have passed, no one is interested in this story, but they are interested in justice. A great injustice has been done. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was bombed without UN Security Council approval. Civilian targets were bombed, schools were bombed, hospitals were bombed, even public service was bombed. It all sounds abstract today when we talk, 22 years later, we talk all the time and never stop and everything sounds like some history lesson and something that we accept as a fact that we can't do anymore, but that's not true. What we can do is we can change our relationship to this aggression, because we don't have those facts. We don't know exactly how many people were killed during NATO aggression. We don't know the exact number. We don't know who these people are, who these civilians are, who those children were killed during NATO aggression. We know it was a crime that wasn't punished and that it was committed by aggressors and killers because they were targeting civilian targets. They killed our innocent children, destroyed our entire families. We may not have the power to punish them, that's for sure, but what we have is power, obligation and duty to put together a list of victims of NATO aggression, to know the exact name and last name of those people who gave life and who those people whose lives were taken from. We need to know by name and last name exactly which member of the Ministry of Defense was killed, who a civilian, who a woman, who a man, whom a child was killed by the criminals of NATO aggression. If we'd done it in 2000, we wouldn't have talked about it today, but they weren't interested in doing it. Today it's been 22 years since NATO bombing, we still don't have it, and today it's much easier than in 22 years when we're just going to do it the hard way and the question of whether or not we're going to have the exact list of killed. This is the obligation that belongs to us, this is the duty that we have felt that we have proposed this addition to the agenda. I also believe that all of you in the O.R. today feel the same duty and obligation. I would like, at the very end, to know what it is that prevents us from finally putting this supplement on the agenda, to finally begin to discuss this commission that, indeed, nothing bad can bring us except some peace to the victims and their families that there is this unique list and a list of people who are murderers, aggressors and cowards cowardly killed by targeting civilian targets in 1999. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6317	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am concluding the vote, and I am announcing the results of the vote: of the 185 MPs, for -16, there was no vote by 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraph 2, 157, paragraphs 1, 170 and 192, paragraphs 3, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: Joint principled review of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Employment and Insurance Act be carried out, Proposal for a Law on Technical Requirements for Products and Assessment of Consensus, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Museum of Victims of State and Other Bodies; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Transport in Railway Traffic, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocide; Joint Single Review on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandums between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominika on Cooperation in the field of Agriculture, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on Extradition of the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Argentina, the Republic of Argentina, the Republic of Serbia's of Serbia's proposal to the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Convention to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Convention to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Protocol to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Does the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and announce the results of the vote: a total of 187 MPs, for – 176, nine MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on a proposal to supplement the proposed agenda of the session and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda to the vote, as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and announce the results of the vote: a total of 185 MPs, for – 177, did not vote eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 11th session of the First Regular Session in 2021, in general. The draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act, which was submitted by the Government; the draft law on technical requirements for products and the assessment of conformity, which was submitted by the Government; the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the sealing of state and other bodies, which was submitted by the Government; the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contracts of the Republic of Serbia on Transport in Railway Transport, which was submitted by the Government; the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocide, which was submitted by the Government; the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Memorands between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Commonwealth of the Republic of Serbia; the proposal for the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia (the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia's Law on the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia's law on the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the Republic of the Republic of the law of the Republic of the law of the Republic of the law of the Republic of the law of the Republic of the law of the law of the Republic of the Republic of the law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure that they are invited to attend the meetings of Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information, Prof. Dr. Daria Kisic Tepavcevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Boraric and Social Affairs, Angelka Atanaskovic, Minister of Industry, Marija Obradović, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Tomislav Momirović, Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Zoran Antić, State Secretary, Maja Macužić-Puzić, State Secretary, Vukica Kilibarda, V.d. Ministry Secretary Daniela Vanušić, V.D. Assistant Minister Aleksandar Starcevic, V.D. Assistant Minister, mr. Anita Dimovski, V.D. Assistant Minister Nikola Mirkovic, Head of the Department, Vida Jerkovic, Head of Department, Aleksandra Jovanovic, Group Manager, Mile Mitrović, Head of Department, Milos Stanojevic, Advisor, Tatjana Čabak and Irena Otašević of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Svetlana Jovanovic of the Office of the Prime Minister and Milan Josimov of the Office for Information Technology and Electronic Administration. I welcome all present representatives of the government. Welcome. I ask the MPs' groups to now, unless they have already done so, file an application for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), I open my rules of procedure a common principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment and Insurance for Unemployment, Proposal for a Law on Technical Requirements for Products and Assessment of Consensus, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the sealing of state and other bodies, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport Contracts in Railway Traffic, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocides. Do the representatives of the motionor, the representatives of the government, want a word? If you wish to contact me now, please sign in, in any order you wish. So, Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6318	Dear MPs, on a proposal from the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted an amendment and addition to the Employment and Insurance Act at a session held on 22 April 2021, detailing that the employment strategy and following the Action Plan are a basic document of public policies in the field of active employment policy. Namely, the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment was adopted in 2009, followed by amendments and additions from 2015 and 2017, with a view to more effective implementation of these rules in practice. The new Amendments and Supplements Act has further improved the law, as well as the precision of individual terms in accordance with the Planning System Act. The amendments to the law found that the employment strategy was adopted for a period of six years, instead of how it has been done so far for a period of ten years. Also, implementation of strategies is planned through action plans that are being adopted for a period of three years. On a proposal from the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, the government adopted a new employment strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period 2021/2026 on 25 February this year. the year, whose overall goal is to establish stable and sustainable employment growth. Specific measures under the new employment strategy are designed to improve the position of the most sensitive categories on the market when it comes to employment, and above all to women, then younger persons from 30 years of age, to persons over 60 years of age, then to persons with disabilities, to beneficiaries of monetary social assistance, Roma and Roma women, taking into account the representation and other characteristics of those categories which point to the unfavourable position of their members on the labour market. In order to implement the strategy, the Action Plan for the first three-year period under the strategy was also developed. Namely, for the period 2021/2023. The year, adopted by the government on 18 March 2021. The action plan sets out the active employment policy measures to be implemented over the next three years, which primarily implies the following measures: additional education and training measures primarily on these most sensitive categories of labour market, then, subsidized employment and self-employment, public works and active employment policies for persons with disabilities employed under special conditions. The plan was to include 18,225 unemployed persons during the year 2021 with a dynamic increase from these categories of total number - employment from the unemployed category. In 2022, 20,165 unemployed persons were planned to work according to this strategy and during 2023, 21,205 unemployed persons. To realise the active employment policy measures, the National Employment Service issued public calls and competitions on 2 April this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6319	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Angelka Atanaskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6320	Proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment. Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the government proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to pass the Law on Technical Requirements for Products and Assessment of Consensus for the following reasons: in the Republic of Serbia, the area of technical legislation was governed by the Law on Technical Requirements for Products and the Assessment of Consensus, the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No.36/09, as well as the sublaws adopted under this law. Given that 12 years apply the applicable law and the need to further strengthen the competitiveness of our businesses and facilitate trade through appropriate legal solutions, as well as in order to further comply with technical legislation in the Republic of Serbia, with the regulatory and practice applicable to the EU, EU Decision No 7068/2008. The European Parliament and the Council of 9 July 2008 on a common framework for trade in products, the need for the adoption of a new law that will regulate the area of technical legislation closer. The new law is under 1. - It allows for the relief of the economy and the relief of trade. The process of foreign documents is simplified, in particular the certificate issued by bodies in the EU, as they apply the same technical requirements as Serbia. Also, simplified principles and ways of prescribing conformity assessment procedures in technical regulations have been specified, which aims to make business of our businesses easier and more efficient. Under 2. - It prevents unfair competition because the obligations of businessmen in the chain of supply of manufacturers, importers, distributors are specified. Thus, the law lays down the obligations and level of liability of economic operators in accordance with their role in the market, as well as the way in which products are monitored in the supply chain. The application of this Regulation should ensure more effective market surveillance, i.e. that products are safe to use, in accordance with the rules, properly significant and declared. Under 3. - Prescribes a legal basis for setting up quality advice, i.e. A advisory body that will involve in the work of the wider professional public and stakeholders, which will provide better professional support in this area. Under 4. - Defines a Serbian sign of consistency and a presumption of product compliance, further promoting the visibility of the sign, but also expanding awareness of the importance of applying regulations and standards in Serbia. Under 5. - The law prescribes requirements for laboratories and bodies controlled or certified by products by regulating general requirements for the designation of bodies for the manufacturer, for assessing the conformity of the obligation of the designated body in relation to the engagement of the subcontractor, the adoption of a decision on the designation of bodies for the assessment of conformity, the notifications provided by the designated body, the supervision of the work of the designated body, the suspension and withdrawal of designations, the notification of bodies to the European Commission and the EU Member States, as well as specific requirements for the authority responsible for the notification. The possibility of suspending or withdrawing a designation shall also be foreseen if the competent minister determines that the designated body no longer complies with the prescribed requirements. Under 6. - In order to facilitate business conditions, a new law will create a framework for removing unnecessary barriers to trade. This is another principle important for our accession to national and international organisations in the EU, but it is primarily important for businesses, as it allows free trade with minimum necessary state interventions. In order to introduce an effective market surveillance regime, the law specifies jurisdiction in certain sectors that have created problems in practice, such as elevators, pressure equipment and others, as well as why non-aware trade and avoidance of obligations will be sanctioned in time. Criminal measures for non-aware suppliers have been prescribed, and in that part provisions are in line with best international practice, all in order to reduce the number of non-secure products that can endanger citizens. Therefore, the adoption of this law will ensure better protection of the lives and health of our citizens and our assets, raising the competitiveness of the Serbian economy, as well as better market surveillance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6321	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6322	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, it is my pleasure that today we will have the opportunity to discuss minor amendments to the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocide, but the essential importance of this museum for a memory culture that this country has recently started and developed growing. Because of the minor changes that lie ahead of you, I will speak more about the significance of the Museum's genocide victims for our country. I want to remind you that he was founded by the Law establishing the Museum of Genocide Victims and that this law is his founding act. It was done in 1992 and of course we didn't have the legal system of our culture that exists that year. So in the last month, we have had to simply access the 1992 harmonisation of this legal normative with the laws that we have recently passed here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The museum was certainly founded to remember permanently the victims of genocide, over Serbs, above all, for the collection, processing, use of data on them and the fulfillment of the obligation under the International Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of genocide. The museum is an institution of culture, the Republic Institute of Culture and performs the tasks of collecting, processing and storing data, as I said, on the death of Serbs in the premises of the previous Yugoslavia, but also of suffering, genocide, collection and data on genocide against Jewish peoples, Roma and members of other peoples, national minorities, and all in accordance with the law and legal acts governing the work of this museum. As you are aware, Museum Day is marked on April 22nd on the Day of Remembrance of the victims of the Holocaust, genocide of other victims of fascism in World War II, when in 1945 there was a breakthrough of campers at the Jasenovac concentration camp, and that day we recently joined the leaders of Republika Srpska and marked both in Serbia and at the site of death. The Museum of Genocide Victims during the three decades of its work has developed and publishing activity, I don't know how familiar you are with it, certainly individuals are those who deal with this matter, in the realization of these projects, anyone who cooperates with numerous cultural institutions of a similar type, both in the region and around the world, some of them are the Jade of Yours, Jerusalem, the Museum of Holocaust in Washington, a related museum in Vienna, the Visental Centre in Jerusalem, the centre in Los Angeles, America, the center for collecting buildings on war conflicts from 1991-1995 in Banja Luka, the Veritas Documentation Centre from Belgrade and Banja Luka and the Museum of Republika Srpska from Banja Luka, of course, with the Croatian Institute of History from Zagreb and many others. We have recently spoken here in parliament and adopted the Law on Museum Activity and I would only remind you that this law has made this Museum of Genocide Victims a parent museum compared to the museums dealing with this matter, and one of those, which is also a republican institution of culture, the Museum Memorial Centre "The Old Fair". As for the change, you saw yourself in preparation for the session that they were very small volume, so there was no need to conduct a public debate, although we had a brief discussion here in preparation for the session within the Committee on Culture and Information. I said, it's all the harmonisation of the functioning system of this museum with existing laws, applicable laws, the Law on Culture, the Law on Cultural Goods and the Law on Museum Activity. The basic change is the change of seat. So, in 1992, this museum was registered as a museum in Kragujevac, at the address where there was a special legal person, and they had a completely separate activity. Not to get into so much trouble, more trouble than financial control, the finance ministry has also requested that accounting be reported where the headquarters is registered, which was impossible, because since 1995 this museum has been operating also in the culture and information building here in Belgrade. With this bill, we're actually only doing this change and we're verifying that their headquarters is here in Belgrade. It was the only possible solution because of these technical problems and misunderstandings with the Ministry of Finance that this museum had. I say, it is one of the museums in the system of museums that we have recently established in our country, primarily by the initiative of the president of the Republic of Serbia, who insists on this memory culture that in the previous period, thanks to the policy of hiding crime against the Serb people in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, above all, in the so-called. The independent state of Croatia simply undermined this truth and hid it under the carpet, and with the Old Fair Memorial Center, we try to revive and restore this important culture of memory, so that such crimes never happen to us again. The film "Dara from Jasenovac" and films and series that will certainly follow on numerous topics of our people's suffering at the premises of the former Yugoslavia should certainly be taken into account. Historical memories of these sufferings truly have the meaning of a sublime tragedy, given the tragic loss of a large number of people, especially women, especially children and older people, expressing the deepest respect for the victims and the need to honor the victims as a provision for the future. By establishing these two museums, the Museum of Genocide Victims and the Old Fair Memorial Centre, we will preserve, above all, the memory of the victims in the past. Of course, they are there as a reminder that the suffering must never be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6323	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The word has a minister, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6324	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today I will present a law on amendments to the Law on the sealing of state and other bodies prepared by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia whose aim is to establish a qualified electronic seal for state and other bodies. The law was prepared to increase the efficiency of public administration, which was one of the priorities of the government, which Ana Brnabic, the prime minister of the government, cited in her exhibition in October 2020, when the government was formed. The aim of this government, as well as the previous successful transformation of public administration into an efficient service of citizens, means the introduction of an economic and transparent public administration, one of which is one of the means and development of electronic administration. With the possibility of electronic exchange of documents between the authorities, as well as in communication with citizens, with the fact that an obligation to exchange data electronically between the authorities of the administration has already been introduced, it will gain full purpose by establishing a qualified electronic stamp for state and other bodies. According to the applicable Law on the sealing of state and other bodies, state and other bodies, public authorities have the authority to confirm the authenticity of a public document arising from the work of these bodies, obtaining the consent of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government so that only the stamp in the form of a print was known in practice. The Ministry and the Government have defined that they do not lift the seal in the form of prints, such as business entities because in our international practice, a stamp in the form of fingerprints continues to be used in certain types of businesses. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the sealing of state and other bodies, which we will discuss today in the National Assembly, is prepared for further development and application of electronic business in state and other bodies. In this proposal of the law, we will arrange for the purpose, content, appearance and use of a qualified electronic seal when, for example, government and other bodies are doing business in their work. The National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the authorities of the state administration, the Protector of Citizens, the Army of Serbia, courts, public prosecutors, such as public authorities, public agencies, public enterprises, companies, institutions, organisations and individuals when they exercise certain public powers entrusted to them by law, so when all these bodies and entities exchange documentary material prepared or produced in the work of these bodies by electronic means. In this way, the alignment of the existing Law on the sealing of state and other bodies with laws so far governed by the functioning of the electronic administration, such as the Law on Electronic Administration, whose aim is to facilitate electronic communication of citizens, legal entities and NGOs with the authorities of the administration, as well as between the authorities of the administration and the Electronic Document Act, of course on electronic documentation and services of trust in electronic business, which regulates trust services in the field of electronic signature, electronic stamp, electronic time stamp, electronic delivery, web-site authentication and electronic document-keeping. In March 2020, the Government also adopted a Regulation on the office business of the Authority of the State Administration which provided for the electronic exchange of documentary material certified by a qualified electronic seal, i.e. qualified electronic signature, via the service bus of the Authority or the e-mail order, so that, in the light of all the above, this proposal provides for a harmonised application of all those rules, and all in order to improve the development of the E-Government. It sounds very dry and administratively like everything I've been talking about, but this is what it sounds like in law. But basically, our lives will be greatly facilitated, and now through one click and through eGovernment communication with the state and other bodies and institutions, and even within the economy, we will solve everything that we have lost for days, waiting in front of the counters, through several offices, and waiting for various officials to inform us that we are really no longer missing any paper, to make a little joke about this topic. To make a parallel between these difficult, rogue administrative expressions and everyday life. In this regard, this alignment is supported by the fact that this bill provides that the process of granting consent to the content and appearance of the seals will be applied in the same way for both types of seals, so both electronically and the classical one with the print so far. The proposal for this law also provides that the process of granting consent to the content and appearance of the seals will take place via electronic service on the eGovernment portal, regardless of the seal forum, i.e. for the qualified electronic seal and for the stamp in the form of a print, which will fully switch to the electronic administration in the light of this procedure, by applying it to the stamp in the form of a print provided for in January 2022, so early next year. In view of the need for state and other public authorities and public authorities to provide technical conditions to enable and submit requests for consent to the content and appearance of the seal in this form, electronically, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, in order to realise this new competence, in cooperation with the Office for Information Technologies and Electronic Administration, it will ensure that the request for obtaining consent on an electronic qualified stamp is submitted through the electronic administration service on the e-Government portal. The draft law did not modify the time limit of three days from the date of submission of an orderly application in which the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government agreed on the request, on the content and appearance of the seal, as well as in the form of the print, and so is now the case for a qualified electronic stamp. The ministry will continue to seek to maintain efficiency in the future, when it comes to giving consent to the content and appearance of both types of seals. In addition to the above, the proposal also made certain amendments concerning the erasure of the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior under the Law on the sealing of state and other bodies. In particular, those amendments have been made in the light of the fact that registered entrepreneurs can carry out all activities which are not legally prohibited, i.e. in this case they can make stamps on the orders of the state and other authorities, only if the Ministry is responsible for the tasks of the administration, or the competent authority of the Autonomous Province have given consent to the content and appearance of the seal, as well as that the Law on the sealing of the state and other bodies has prescribed the criminal liability of the responsible person and of the entrepreneur, provided that the establishment of the seal without the consent of the competent authority is, of course, a criminal liability in the event that the abuse which constitutes a criminal offence is committed. These are, in short, the most important solutions contained in this legislative proposal. In particular, I would like to point out that this law will give one new dimension to the work of all the bodies covered by the Law on the sealing of state and other bodies. In particular, we note that the Law refers to more than 10,000 bodies that will now have the opportunity to use an electronically qualified seal, such as ministries, administration bodies, special organisation, government services, courts, prosecutors, local self-government units, so cities and municipalities, public agencies, schools, pre-school institutions, hospitals, social services institutions, autonomous provinces, public notebooks, public executioners and others. Of course, in front of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, I call on all the bodies to which the law applies to recognise the benefits of the application of an electronic qualified seal and electronic communications, to request the consent of this ministry and to obtain an electronic seal and wherever possible to place paper documents in communication with other bodies, or to replace the citizens with an electronic document. Finally, I want to thank you for your attention and to express my hope that you, as MPs of the National Assembly, will adopt this proposed law after the debate in principle and in particular. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6325	Thank you. The Minister wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6326	Dear President, honourable MPs, you have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on transport contracts in railway transport. This law regulates contractual and other bonding relations in the field of public transport of passengers and things in domestic rail transport. As early as 2019, the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure joined the construction and initiated a procedure for the adoption of the draft law on amendments to this law, which the government also adopted on 30 January 2020. However, in line with the Government's conclusion of 29 October 2020, the bill was withdrawn from the assembly procedure for the establishment of a new National Assembly. The draft law, adopted by the government on 30 January, was once again drafted. The draft law was prepared by the Working Group, which consisted of representatives of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and the Railway Directorate. Also, in order to draw up the draft in question, a statement and an opportunity to make a proposal to the relevant railway sector companies has been requested. The "Infrastructure of Serbia" a.d. and "Serbian Kargo" a.d., whose proposals were discussed and then included in the text of the draft and, with reasons, were rejected. In accordance with the rules, the public debate on the draft law was conducted in accordance with the adopted Public Discussion Programme from 22 November to 12 December. The text of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Railway Traffic and the Public Discussion Programme were published on the website of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and on the eGovernment portal. During that period of public debate, the company ‘Serbian train’ a.d. submitted its observations and suggestions to the draft law, which were discussed in detail and with reasons accepted and included in the text, partially accepted or rejected. The draft law carries out a further procedure of harmonisation with the legal assets of the European Union, i.e. Regulation 1371/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail transport, and above all in the area of passenger rights, and then, the harmonisation of the terminology used in the Law on Railways of 2018 and the removal of technical and practical shortcomings in the text of the law. This harmonisation primarily refers to the implementation of the terminology used in European Union regulations, which is made up through Article 4. A draft amending Article 5 of the basic law. Among other things, this includes defining the terms of a single ticket, general terms of transport, travel organisers, ticket seller, travel pass, contract carrier. Furthermore, this harmonisation also refers to the conditions and rules relating to the rights of passengers and liability of carriers in the event of train delays, i.e. the conditions of partial or complete return of the price of the ticket, to which the passenger is entitled in the event of train delays. The most significant amendment shall be introduced by Article 6. The bill, which shall be added by members from 14a to 14d, who, among other things, prescribe all the conditions and rules. In fact, Article 14b prescribes the conditions and rules to be applied when a situation arises during the journey where the delay of 60 minutes in the instruction station has become certain. In this case, the passenger is offered a choice between returning the full price of the ticket, continuing to travel or rerouting under similar conditions, as soon as possible or continuing to travel or rerouting the second day according to the passenger's wish. Article 14v. prescribes conditions and rules in case the train arrived at the station, but with a delay. In that case, the passenger is entitled to a fee of 25% of the price of the late ticket between 60 and 119 minutes, while at 50% of the price of the ticket is in case of a delay of more than 120 minutes. Also in case of train delays on arrival or departure, which is longer than 60 minutes, the carrier is obliged to provide meals and refreshments whenever possible for passengers in a hotel or other accommodation as well as transport from the train to the nearest train station or other alternative place of departure in case the train is blocked on the track. These conditions and rules are prescribed by Article 14g. With regard to the rights of disabled persons using rail transport services to Article 14d. a derogation is prescribed from the provision, on the financial limit, the amount of compensation provided for in Articles 26 and 30. Laws, in the case of complete or partial loss or damage to movement equipment or other special equipment used by these persons. Therefore, regardless of the value level of the damaged or lost object that is damaged or disappeared by the fault of the carrier, the person who owns it will be compensated in full, thereby improving to some extent the position of this category of our citizens. Article 8 Proposals to which Article 22a is added. The basic law provides that all issues, conclusion and implementation of the Agreement on the Transport of Passengers, which are not regulated by this law, are to be duly complied with by the provision of Appendix A to the Convention on International Railway Transport, resulting in a comprehensive and complete alignment with the provisions of the European Union. Articles 14b. and 14v. Due to high financial commitments potentially put before the carrier, two years from the date of entry into force of the draft law are being postponed. Also, attitudes 2. - Article 14g. They shall be applied delayed from the next day from the date of Serbia's accession to the European Union or on the day on which the full application of the transport community begins. Paragraph 1 of Article 5 of this Article relating to the obligation to notify passengers in the event of a delay in the train and the obligation to indicate, at the request of the passengers on the map, that the train is delayed, shall apply after the entry into force of the law. The draft law sets out the harmonisation of the terminology used in the law with the Law on Railways, which was adopted in 2018. First of all, this is about the definitions of the railway carrier, infrastructure manager, combined transport, station manager and others. The bill implements the removal of certain technical and practical shortcomings in the text of the basic law, i.e. the precision of certain provisions. In addition to detailing certain provisions, this is about implementing adjustments that are the right of a technical nature, such as connecting to laws, which are no longer in force and literal errors. In Article 45 of the Law, there is an example, for the purposes of amending which is next to the Koli list, a copy of the paper as a document confirming the Transport of Cars Treaty is added. This was done in order to comply with the Act with existing practice. The bill has 21 members, which provides for the amendment of 15 members and the addition of seven members, and the Transport and Railway Contracts Act itself, has 118 members. As regards the practice of the Member States of the European Union, as regards the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013, 13712007, it should be borne in mind that passenger transport at European Union level remains largely non-profitable. It operates according to the principle of public transport obligations and allocations and compensation under the same, as well as to be characterised by a low degree of development and competition and a small number of profitable routes. Given the fact that the financial and economic power of national rail transport remains low, in most European countries, there was the possibility of a delayed application of that regulation until 2022. On the other hand, as an example of a country applying the relevant provisions of this Regulation, which is to a certain extent comparable to Serbia, is an example of Slovenia. In Slovenia, during 2018, the average train delays were 4.5 minutes per 100km, mainly for the purpose of maintaining the infrastructure, but they did not significantly refer to passenger trains, but only to freight trains. Only 11 passenger trains were cancelled in the same period, representing 0.009 total. During 2018, a total of 1340 different requirements were submitted in relation to passenger rights, of which only 146 were related to train delays and compensation for the same. It can be said that, to a relatively high extent, European regulations in the area of passenger rights have contributed to the high quality and reliability of rail and transport services in this country. One of the reasons for this is that the provisions on compensation for passengers in case of train delays, which have been delayed by the application of the rules of this bill, should have a motivating effect on the railway undertaking, to operate effectively and raise the level of quality and reliability of rail and passenger traffic. In view of the financial effect of this provision, which can have on the national carrier Serbia train a.d, as well as the fact that a large number of infrastructure works currently are being implemented on the railway network, which currently have a negative effect on the regularity and reliability of railway transport, those provisions are being applied on a delayed basis, i.e. until the completion of a number of reconstruction and modernisation of railways, as well as the achievement of the full financial stabilisation of Serbia's train a.d. It should not be ignored that this bill directly affects the improvement of the disability situation, i.e. facilitating their access to rail services, which will be further improved by adopting this draft law, and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6327	Thank you. We're moving on to reports from the committees in charge. Do they want a word? The president of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6328	Just one correction, I'm the vice president of the board. The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, held at its session yesterday, discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment. The Committee unanimously adopted a bill amending and supplementing this law because employment and the issue of continued employment growth are essential for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What is also pointed out on the Committee is that this bill on amendments and additions to the law, particularly agreed, because the issue of employment and the issue of continued employment growth is essential for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What is also pointed out on the Committee is that this bill on amendments and additions to the Law, first and foremost in line with the Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia, which provides that the most significant act which is the ministry, and here it is the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, proposes to the government, and the Government adopts it, is exactly a employment strategy. The deadline that was earlier 10 years, exactly in line with the plan system law, has changed and that time period can be at least 5 to 7 years, and the employment strategy has been adopted and the government adopted for 2021. - 2026. I must also point out that the Ministry has done so, and the government has adopted an Action Plan for implementing active employment policy measures to minimise the number of unemployed persons. Health issues, labour issues of dignity are one of the most important issues for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are in this case constantly working in that direction. I must point out that last year, regardless of Kovid’s pandemic – 19 in August 2020, there was a historical decline in unemployment of 7.3% by the end of the year, the percentage of unemployment remains single-digit. What I must also point out, and what is of great importance and what we have found on the Committee, is that the measures of active employment policy, i.e. by the Action Plan for implementing these measures, are covered by those most vulnerable and vulnerable who, in a difficult way or with more difficulty, come to work, which are young to 30 years, are Roma, they are beneficiaries of financial social assistance, those are persons with disabilities, they are unskilled labour, as well as victims of domestic violence. What is very important to this law is that local self-governments need to coordinate their employment-related planning documents and must also plan and programme to predict exactly how much financial resources are needed to implement one measure of active employment policy, in order to address the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Labour has had a realistic and real view of the financial situation of local self-government and to allocate funding. The fight for each job, the fight for employment, is what is one of the priorities of the government, because that is the sixth objective of the programme declared by our President Aleksandar Vukic, which is the country's economic progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6329	Thank you, colleague. I remember you from the last time you were president of the Social Affairs Committee. I apologize, colleague Hardisic, who is now president of the committee mentioned. The word has a folk letter from Sandra Christmas in front of the Committee on Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6330	Thank you, Mrs. Yevdzic. Dear Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Culture and Information discussed the amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing museums of victims of genocide. What I would like first of all to point out is that the adoption of these amendments and additions will be resolved, first of all, by the problem of alignment with the provisions of the Law on Culture, and thus this institution will, in practice, equalise itself with other cultural heritage protection institutions and will determine the specificities of this museum which still require special regulation. As the minister herself said, the Law establishing a museum of genocide victims has been in effect since 1992 and is one of the few regulations in the area of culture that specifically regulates the establishment and operation of a culture institution, i.e. a museum. By passing the Law on Museum Activity, we are witnessing the exceptional commitment of the Government and the Ministry of Culture and Information, which recognises the importance of preserving cultural heritage as one of the most important priorities of cultural policy of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to establishing more efficient procedures and improving legal regulation, it is much more important that the Government and President of the Republic of Serbia devote great efforts to the memory of all victims in the 20th century, by adopting, above all, as we have heard and reminded ourselves of the Law on the Memorial Centre of the Old Fair in February 2020, by investing in a film industry that cherishes the memory of genocide victims, then opening an exhibition titled 22 April - The Day of Remembrance of the victims of the Holocaust, genocide and other victims of fascism in the Second World War, which is marked in Serbia on 22 April 1945, when there was a breakthrough of the work of the Jasenovac prison system. It is precisely an indicator of this policy, which is being promoted by the Ministry of Culture and Information, but also by President Aleksandar Vukic. Let me also quote this occasion to the President of the Republic who, at the opening of this exhibition that I mentioned a little while ago, pointed out - The restored culture of memory, we do good things for our people, and we show responsibility and seriousness, above all, of accessing the problems of the region. This is also the essence of the work of this government and the National Assembly, commitment and fundamentality in solving essential issues, not only areas of culture and art whose task is, among other things, to deal with man in the past, future and present times, but also in other areas that are important to the prosperity and progress of society in general. Culture is what remains when everything else is forgotten. We will not allow this and therefore remain firmly on the path of preserving cultural heritage and implementing the strategic objectives of the cultural policy of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course, with the support of, above all, President Aleksandr Vukic's initiative. In voting day, I invite my colleagues to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6331	Thank you. The word is held by the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6332	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, all the proposals that we have before us today have been discussed on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law where we have assessed that they are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. We can see from a number of proposals coming before the government's MPs, i.e. by the resolute ministries, that it is really working really fast to solve many issues in all areas in our country and that our country continues, on the one hand, to fight very well with the coronary virus that has hit us, but, on the other hand, and to continue with the unconstitutional development and construction of infrastructure by strengthening the economy and economy. I'll remind you. A few days ago, the 30-euro dock payment started for about 150,000 beneficiaries of financial social assistance and for about 10,000 people deprived of freedoms. Today, at this point, that number is certainly bigger. Also, the pensioners got their first payment. This is exactly how citizens can see that our country is strong, that our state is financially stable, that we have one financially stable system and that we have the capacity to care for both citizens and businesses. In the second half of May, a 100-euro payment will be possible to expect Serbs in KIM, including children, and those unemployed at KIM will receive 200 euros each. As we also have a proposal on the agenda today regarding rail traffic, I want to point out as someone coming from Nis, the importance of the announced high-speed railway Belgrade – Nis, which Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic spoke about at the end of last month, when he agreed in Brussels to support the EU, both for the Belgrade-Nish section and for the Nis-Nis-Nin Macedonia stock. So it's about new infrastructure projects, it's about creating a better economic and political position for Serbia. Cities, municipalities in Serbia are connecting. Serbia also connects in the region. So we also have a link between regional character, which is also very important for Serbia. What I wanted to say at the end is just to remind myself of the fact that the minister today spoke about active employment measures, to just remind myself of the fact that in 2012, the unemployment rate was 26%, and now it's about 7.3%, and that's the fact that it tells everything about how much we worked and how much we tried to provide our citizens with new jobs, but of course a better standard of living. In line with everything I've stated, I'm going to take the opportunity to invite my colleagues and colleagues to support the motions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6333	Thank you. The word is made by MP Elvira Kovac, president of the Committee on European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6334	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, members of the Government with their associates, the establishment of a draft law on technical requirements for conformity assessment products is planned for the third revision of the National Programme for the adoption of EU legal fluids, etc. The NPAA, as well as the Government's Work Plan for this year 2021. Until now, as we have heard, this area has been governed by the Act on Technical Requirements for Products, the Assessment of Consistency, but this law has been partially in line with European legislation. Following the period of application of this law, as stated by the distinguished minister in its opening statement, the practice has shown that in order to be more efficient in the field of technical legislation, it is necessary to prescribe a completely new legislative solution. This, in particular, given the need for further harmonisation of technical legislation in the Republic of Serbia both with legislation and with the practice applied in EU countries. The text of the bill defines compliance with EU best practice and modern standards in the field of technology, improving business conditions and economic development, as well as, as we have heard, reducing unfair competition and removing unjustified barriers to trade. The bill allows for improving the protection of public interests, such as health protection, consumer safety and other users, property protection, environmental protection and labour protection. The analysis of the application of the applicable legislation, thus far, identified certain problems in practice, such as the non-compliance of a number of products delivered to the market, the inadequacy of the work of the current technical regulations and the like and, as I mentioned, it was estimated that a significant part of these problems would be resolved by continuing to comply with the current EU legislation in this area. EU regulations have adopted important newspapers in technical legislation. The proposed solutions are prescribed, among other things, the principles of the regulation of conformity assessment procedures in a harmonised area which takes over relevant EU legislation. What is the primary objective is to achieve full integration of the economy into the single EU market, which, as we know, today makes the market of 27 EU member states. Being part of this single market actually means open market access with 500 million consumers and full integration into international production flows. In the remainder of the time, the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration will refer to the second draft legislation on conformity, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on transport contracts for rail transport. These changes and additions were also planned by the third revision of the National Programme for the adoption of legal flows of the EU, so-called. The NPAA, this current one, and it is envisaged, by the NPAA plan, for this period from 2018 to 2021, therefore, among those laws that need to be amended. This bill also implements a further process of harmonisation with EU legal assets, on passenger rights and obligations in rail transport, as we heard from the respected minister, and above all in the area of passenger rights. This harmonisation applies, first of all, to the conditions and rules relating to return and ticket price compensation in case of train delays, as well as the right of persons with disabilities, or persons with reduced mobility using a rail traffic service. The necessary change is necessary, first of all, to raise the quality of rail passenger services, which is the basic objective of the regulation mentioned in the 2007 Regulation, but also to further integrate the domestic market for rail services into the EU market through the harmonisation of how the regulatory framework should ultimately result in what is the objective and essence, by improving passenger rights, especially as regards the return of ticket prices in case of train delays and, as I mentioned, in the case of persons with disabilities or persons with reduced mobility. These provisions further guarantee equal access to rail services. The Committee on European Integration therefore believes that these proposals are in line with EU legal assets and give a positive opinion on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6335	Thank you. In front of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government, MP Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6336	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government discussed at their session the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the sealing of state and other bodies and proposed to the National Assembly that the same bill be fully accepted. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent resolution Ministry of State Administration and local self-government are aimed at establishing an electronic qualified stamp for both state and other bodies. The proposed law will certainly regulate the purpose, content, appearance and use of an electronically qualified seal when public authorities, such as the President of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the public authority holders, such as agencies, public enterprises and other institutions, exchange documentary material in the work of doing business in part. Indeed, the proposed law creates legal frameworks in full capacity for the establishment of electronic business, given that electronic administration is certainly one of the main drivers of improving the quality and efficiency of public administration. Certainly, in 2012, we as a state have done a lot in the field of digitisation both of public administrations and other segments of life, which has made it much easier both business and life processes and has contributed to cutting time for achieving better results of public administration and economy. The evidence of good practice is the promotion of the eGovernment portal, which has contributed that citizens no longer have to wait in line and reduce unnecessary crowds in competent state institutions when citizens apply for one of the laws of the prescribed rights. So today, citizens can apply through the eGovernment portal to replace their ID card, issue a driver's license, issue a health license. By digitising, we were able to reduce the negative effects of the coronary virus pandemic, because in the previous year and a half, citizens were able to apply for both testing and immunisation procedures, and this is exactly how we made it clear that when the state is at its most challenging moments, we put citizens' interests first. The bill ensures that employees in the administration can do their jobs faster and more efficiently and that citizens are fully equal in the exercise of their rights. The bill provides for two forms of seals, the first in the form of fingerprints on paper documents and the second form in electronic form, which will be an integral part of the electronic document. Certainly, the procedure for obtaining consent to the appearance and shape of the seal will also be carried out via the eGovernment portal. In order for citizens to understand the importance of this bill, a large number of state authorities will use an electronic seal, which will speed up communication between citizens and public administrations. The proposal also aimed to protect the interests of national minorities, and it is foreseen that the electronic seal will be printed in the language of the national minority. I would also like to point out that the law clearly defines criminal and criminal sanctions if the responsible person makes a stamp without the consent of the competent national authority or that seal is used in certain actions that can be defined as abuse in accordance with criminal law. It certainly is that the effects of applying this law will certainly be seen within the next year, which shows that we are equally important to all segments of society and life, especially now, when we see light at the end of the tunnel, called immunization. With these and similar laws, we want to create conditions for the faster, easier and simpler exercise of citizens' rights, and to help businesses achieve their full potential in the coming years and be the engine of development throughout Serbia. I would therefore call on all my colleagues to support in the voting day the draft amending and supplementing law on the sealing of state and other bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6337	Thank you. The president of the Committee on Economic Affairs, MP Veroljub Arsic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the Act on Technical Requirements for Product and Assessment of Consensus, the current law is in many ways exceeded, and that is, above all, one of the basic reasons why we have this on the agenda today. The shortcomings of the law itself in its application were also observed, so these shortcomings certainly required to be removed in the proposal for a new law. It is true that my fellow MPs have said that the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia is full membership in the EU, but to be clear, the Republic of Serbia is passing laws primarily for its own and our citizens. By passing this law and by harmonising these standards, first of all, we are addressing issues that improve the protection of public interests such as: the protection of health, consumer safety, protection of property, protection from unfair competition, and that is why this law should be passed. That's the primary reason. The second reason is also very important, and this is to increase the competitiveness of our domestic economy in the EU market and, of course, the third reason is full EU membership. The law, in any case, is in line with EU regulations and directives, but I repeat, first of all, to protect our citizens, protect our market, protect our public interest and enable our economy to be more competitive both in the EU market and in other parts of the world. For these reasons, the committee was managed when he proposed to the National Assembly that the bill be accepted in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6339	Thank you. Before we continue to work further, one notice of today's work. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's MP, Muamer Zukorlic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6340	The President-in-Office, respected representatives of the government, ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, is today May 11th. According to the current law of the Republic of Serbia, it is Bosniak national flag day, or Bosniak flag day in the Republic of Serbia. To all Bosniaks living in this country and diaspora, I congratulate this day with a desire to spend it in the full mood, in health and in good health. This is an opportunity to remind us that members of the Bosniak people in the Republic of Serbia are defined to be the full integral factor of this country, to live in it as equal citizens of this country who will experience their country, to fulfil their obligations to this country, and also to enjoy all the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and laws. The Bosniak national community has come a long way, especially in the last century because of numerous historical and other burdens, but here, despite this long painful journey, here we are today where the Bosniak community, here, and in this home, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has its nine MPs, which confirms significant progress in terms of political status and the possibility for Bosniaks in this country to express their political stance and their political will. A lot has happened, we have done in dialogue with the representatives of the government. We continue with this dialogue, so that the Bosniak community, like all other minority communities, but like all citizens, we actually have this positive sense of belonging to the country, to the nation, to the people, to be a constructive factor in full capacity in this country. Of course, we are also aware that one significant part of the issue and the problem is solved by the state, but also, the other half of these issues and problems will be solved in the spirit of our quality. We have done much, much more, but as long as Bosniak political factors do not have the consciousness and strength to be on the same side, to be together on the most important issues, we will be late to solve a number of problems. We MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, just as our party's name calls it, and how it actually orders and contains our party's programme and our entire discourse, we will also advocate the intra-Bosnian unity, the inner dialogue and reconciliation, but also for reconciliation, trust, dialogue and mutual co-operation of all the peoples and national communities in this country. As a member of the human race, above all, who does not want to give up the elemental humanity and senses of humanity, which is always a challenge, especially for those of us who deal with politics, because political interests, party interests and other interests very often draw us from elementary human values and it is not difficult to forget them at all, but as a member of the human race who wants to remain consistent with the elemental values of humanity, they cannot be blind, nor immune to what is happening in the sacred city of Jerusalem these days. Violence that has escalated against people because they belong to another religion, another nation, especially violence that does not threaten the desecration of sacred space and the mosque itself cannot leave us calm and cannot turn our heads and say – it is none of our business. Of course we little communities have enough of our own questions and problems and it would be the easiest thing for us to say about what's going on a few thousand miles away is none of my business. I can't be concerned with violence and the crime of any kind. The relationship to violence and crime is not a question of the relationship to the team there or those there. It is a relationship to ourselves in the full depth of humanity, especially considering that we are in the last day of the holy Muslim month of Ramadan, Ramadan fasting and patience. But, unfortunately, we have opportunities to watch people fall dead, that the flame of that violence does not save either mosques or temples, or other parts of that holy flesh. Jerusalem in the old Hebrew “Jerosol ” means a city of peace. In Arabic, the name of this city is “elkuds” meaning sacred. See the depth and beauty of these words in both Hebrew and Arabic. A city of peace or a holy city or a holy city of peace, and indeed a historic city, and a holy place of Muslims, Christians and Jews. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that at this point, under various political and other motives, this sanctity has been banished. She was pushed aside. Saints can't be the subject of military and politics. Holy places should remain holy, and when a city of such historical and spiritual importance becomes a subject of territory for which certain factors or certain nations are fought, then every sense of holiness is lost. So I have to say that my heart hurts, as a man and ultimately as a Muslim, which is an opportunity for me to look at this and what human civilization in the 21st century, when we're full of the concept of human rights and human rights, there's no power to find a solution for this big burning historical question. That doesn't mean there isn't a solution. Whenever there's will and strength, especially key factors, power factors, when there's will and honest intention, there's always a solution. It is fortunate that we have the strength, like three great world monotheist religions, to give this city the place it belongs to, to be a holy city of peace, all three religions, and not a city of war and a city of violence, a city of flames and killing. Until that happens, until Jerusalem gets that place, then it will be a wound in which not only will the daily blood of human civilization and the violence we see in other destinations, but it is actually a witness and confirmation of the collapse, humanity, but also the spirit of human civilization, but also of culture, but also of these three world religions of monotheism. So that question, unfortunately, is a local question, a political question, a question of power, influence and territory, but the sanctity of this city should gather power and energy, and above all the awareness that this city is something else. This city deserves and it is the only point whose sanctity is recognised by all three monotheistic religions. That is why Jerusalem deserves to be the capital of the world, the cultural and spiritual capital of the world, to rise above the partial, interesting, territorial, political, military and other interests and projections. Perhaps someone will tell us what we from a small Muslim community here, from a not-so-great country like Serbia here in the Balkans, will be ordering all these world powers, as well as those forces, local and regional ones dealing with this issue. If we were to order, not order for them, order for ourselves, and show which consciousness we belong to, and which orientation we belong to, and what values we inherit. Whether those who need to hear it or not, that's another question, but we as politicians shouldn't completely deprive the values of conscience, the values of feeling, the values of spiritual belongings, ethical belongings, other words of humanity. What today is one of the great shortcomings in politics is actually this domination of pragmatic interest and the indifference of politicians who become hostages of pragmatic, political interest projections. It is therefore necessary that as many of those who will speak and in principle as possible, and that it is not in the spirit of a valid wave, which is not in the spirit of our daily political, party or ruling, universally ruling or imposed interest. As long as there are such voices, both our community and our society and this nation and this country have a future. What often impresses me here in this country is, in fact, the willingness to point out the principle, even if it's not at its own expense, even if it's not an emphasis on principles, what goes in line with what I'm expected to say, because belonging to some kind of official truth doesn't mean to belong to the truth. It may belong to official interests or stand by them, and truths are true and they are valid and valid only if they are based on clear and healthy arguments. After this long period of depression, which is indeed the state in which we are, here, and local and this solemn occasion, but also globally, this bitter fact and truth, the rest of the time I will dedicate to the laws that are before us today, the truth, which are very numerous and which require a great deal of time. However, what makes it easier to discuss these laws themselves is that a significant part of these laws is procedural and do not contain a certain number, or they do not contain in themselves any significant dispute over which we should now develop a deeper controversy. I'll start with the Employment Act. I believe that it belongs to those laws that are of strategic importance, regardless of what we have both the Labour Act and what is mostly there, most, to say, important issues solved earlier and that we are now in a position to perfect and develop certain solutions. What particularly impresses me, and what I saw in the explanation and what we could hear in the reasons is that an additional accent was placed on the human aspect of this law. This is what gives me a fundamental inspiration to say more significantly about this law and certainly give it the support it needs, because when it puts focus, employment is a human process that has its own dimension, a development dimension. The Employment Strategy also depends on the quality of the overall development of society and state and state, which manages to put employment policy together with the Strategy and all programmes, which is one of the best signs of the stability of society and stability of the state. However, in addition to this development dimension, which is of particular importance, collective importance for one state and one society, but for what some laws or individual legislators sometimes do not always have heard, which is precisely a sensitivity to those most sensitive categories in terms of employment policy itself. So, focusing on people with disabilities, their additional protection is something that is of particular importance and what actually says is not only that we are procedurally perfecting this law, but as a society, through our representatives in power, in this case representatives in the government, who are proposing, and then through us MPs, who are supposed to support these laws, we are actually showing that we have this necessary sensitivity through which we confirm our relationship with the weaker ones. I've pointed that out more than once, and I'll do it again. So every society shows its human being exclusively and first of all on the issue of relations with the weak. When you're healthy, it's hard to feel sick. When you're rich, it's not easy to feel poor. When you're fed up, it's also not easy to be sensitive to someone who's hungry. The community and society that show that quality, then they confirm that their human in vertical, and that's something that's of particular importance and what needs to be supported. Also, subsidies, further putting importance on the question of employment subsidies is also of paramount importance and should be further supported, or improved. In fact, here, we have various development parameters that we measure our progress, but always somehow the issue of unemployment is something that makes us most happy. When you talk about GDP and other things, they seem kind of abstract to us, but when you say that we have reduced unemployment or that we have a trend of reduction in certain numbers and percentages, then the citizen feels it easier, because that's what concerns him directly. When it comes to the seal law, there is also no doubt that it is about modernising or modernising the existing way, or the way of verifying, which is a challenge and time and space and circumstances in which we now act. It is very good that we have actually kept the older conventional way of verifying, and that this law will also enable the electronic variant of the certificate, which will definitely facilitate this kind of administrative, business and any other correspondence. So, in this respect, support and this law, as well as other laws that actually respond to the challenges that we have not only of the European environment that has certain requirements for us, but also of real life that change from day to day because of the challenges of communication and all others, especially in terms of digitisation. I would like to thank yesterday for the public listening we had on the topic of digitisation, especially on the topic of security in the digital and information society at the Data Centre in Kragujevac. I congratulated you yesterday. For the first time I've seen "Data Center" and that's kind of impressive. I congratulate the Government, as well as the National Assembly, as well as the entire state on such a building, which is indeed a pride for all future projections, reflections and visions on this development, as I thank the subcommittee that was the bearer of this organization. We're going that way. I wish you every good.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6341	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the JS parliamentary group, Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6342	Dear Prime Minister Gojkovic, Obradovic, Kisic Tepavcevic, Atanaskovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact that we have four ministers here, that many representatives of the relevant assembly committees spoke, suggests that today we are discussing a set of laws that regulate different spheres and areas of social life. Of course the JS parliamentary group in voting day will support all these laws. With these laws we regulate the institutions of our country, these laws we give tools to the executive authority, these laws we strengthen the institutions of the state of Serbia and the state of Serbia itself. However, I must look back at this opportunity that there is one, I would say, a strange political group gathered around Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, who hate our institutions, who are doing everything to undermine their lies and dirt the reputation of the institutions of Serbia and Serbia itself, both inside and outside. The real opposition fights authorities with good programmes, projects, ideas, constructive criticism of the government's mistakes, but never, but never really, ever the right opposition defiles, defies the reputation of the Serbian state abroad and the rights of the opposition never harms the state in which it lives and the citizens of its state. They, of course, have no programs, they have no ideas, they have no actions, they just hate and they are violent. They violently tried to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, violently entered the RTS building, wearing hangers at protests, proven violence in the family. In this high house, I recently talked about an official note signed by my ex-wife, Dragan Gilas, Iva Gilas, in which he was accused of domestic violence, of beating her and her father. They're threatening police officers and civil servants, and we've seen recently, from a few days ago, that they'd gladly step on the sidewalks and nothing is sacred to them. Of course, Dragan Djilas has his on-call liar behind whose skirts he hides, he has Marinika Tepic. There's nothing sacred about that woman. In her lies, she's willing to go to the lowest, ugliest, and her cycle of corruption has no limit, no red lines, no morals, no honor. Everything's allowed. For that woman, there is not really an institution of the system, a public enterprise, political opponents, their families, friends that this lady did not drag through the mud in her circle of corruption. If they wrote a book called "All Maryk's Lies", it would be a vast library. I'll look back today only on those lies she's been making against Dragan Markovic Palma, president of the JS in the last few weeks. The first lie by Marinika Tepic was that women in Jagodina could only come to work in the public sector via a social phone. She thus gave way to the city of Jagodin, which offended the honour of all women employed in the public sector in Jagodina and all women in Jagodina. That lie was told by a woman who did not blink when she said it, not taking care of the feelings of women employed in the public sector in Jagodina and women in Jagodina. About what their wife will say to that statement, what will their children say to their schoolmates at school, what will their neighbors say? That recklessness, this lowness, of course, led to the 393 women employed in the public sector of Jagodina giving criminal charges to the competent prosecutor's office for the insults that the lady "false", the "Dilasov Pinocchio", Marinika Tepic, made at her press conference. The second lie by Marinika Tepic was that a witness at her disgusting press conference told the witness that he was an insider, that he worked for Dragan Markovic Palm at a hotel owned by Dragan Markovic Palm, of course neither Dragan Markovic Palm owned the hotel nor that man worked for Dragan Markovic Palm. They hid his face, skimped his voice. We first thought about it because we discovered that in fact Branislav Radosavljevic was the false witness, in fact the activist of the party Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic. However, we later found that this man was actually a criminal, that he was arrested six times in 2008 and 2009 in the territory, first of all, of the Sava Venac municipality, or PS Sava Venac, but also of the Stars, and that he was convicted. Of course, that Dragan Markovic Palma filed criminal charges the other day against Branislav Radosavljevic, against the false witness. He was called yesterday to testify at the Jagodina Police Department. He of course didn't show up at the police administration in Jagodina, according to Marinika Tepic, because, yes, he is afraid of Dragan Markovic Palma, and he's not afraid to go violently into RTS, I showed you a picture, I circled him, he wasn't afraid to steal cars, he wasn't afraid to lie facelessly, and, well, he's afraid to go to the police department in Jagodina? He should not be afraid of Dragan Markovic Palma, nor of anyone, and we trust and tell the competent institutions – question him wherever, in his house, wherever, because that man has nothing to say. He's just making it up. At that press conference and his famous statement, he read to him what Marinika and Dragan Gilas wrote to him and simply everything he said at that press conference is a disgusting and disgusting lie. The third la, of course, Marinika Tepic immediately put on social networks, hers, Twitter, Facebook, etc. and supported the lie by Mica Jovanovic, who said that on the 50th birthday of Dragan Markovic Palma, he personally saw the girls undermining. Dragan Markovic Palma, of course, immediately took pictures from his 50th birthday and showed that his wife and two sons and two grandchildren and 200 guests were present on the 50th birthday. Then when Mica Jovanovic on the Hit Twitter show, denied his claims by saying he was angry at Dragan Markovic Palm, because on that 50th birthday he was removed from the main table thanks to a protocol he said he could not sit at the main table and angry about the dispute he lost because he did not pay rent to Megatrend University, he told those lies. When she denied it, Marinika Tepic was for the same person she put on Twitter and Facebook and said it was an obscenity figure. It's actually Marinika Tepic. While you're at it, you're good. When she doesn't need you and you're no use to her, then you're an obscenities person. So it will be with witnesses and with everyone else because Marinika Tepic only observes people from the point of view of his personal interests and nothing else. I do have a kind of dilemma that lies better and more, whether Marinika Tepic, or her underparalyser, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, a woman who was a diplomat, who was an ambassador to Rome and who was at the cost of the diplomatic scandal she made, because she insulted the Serbian consul in Italy, because she challenged the Embassy of the Republic of Italy in Serbia to react and deny, she said she was a disgusting liar, where she said she was a professor. Veraldi, the honorary consul of Serbia in Italy, attended together with the mayor of Pescara, a night where girls without clothes played and that Mr. Veraldi was waiting for a naked girl in the room. Mr. Veraldi wrote a letter to the ambassador of Serbia in Rome, Goran Aleksic, in which he denied it. I have to, behold, wonders indeed, never thought I'd show the magazine "Time" as evidence, but here, the magazine "Time" in the last issue says and denys, or Mr. Veraldi says that he never participated in this imaginary event, that there was talk about the arrival of investors and sending students to the University of Gabriele Denuncio in Pescara, and says that the only ceremony was dinner at the restaurant. Other claims look to me like that thing's coming around. So at the invitation of the journalist "Time" they also denied the whole story by Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Of course, that Dragan Mrković Palma sent in yesterday and the criminal complaint and the lawsuit and Sandi Raskovic Ivić, because once and for all, it must stand in the way of that disgusting, low, lowest possible political campaign, where everyone can spit and swim without evidence, without having anything to bear the consequences. Well, he can't. The consequences will be both Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Ms. Marinika Tepic and everyone else who participated in all this. The last lie, the fifth one I'm going to make here, is a lie brought to Easter, where Marinika Tepic and her board chairman in Jagodina, if we can call three members that the board, put on their Facebook, as reportedly the chairman of the board of the Gilas party in Jagodina, had robbed the apartment. The Jagodina Police Department and its officers went straight to the field. It happened on May 1st. In front of the apartment they found the son of the aforementioned board president, Katarina Jokic. They found the door locked. That son unlocked the door. There wasn't any hoarding in the apartment. No one came in, and the officers who did the job and the specialty said there were no signs of a break-in or anything else at the door, which means they lied. There's something else they lied about, that apartment isn't Katarina Jokic's apartment, it's her mother's apartment, but it doesn't matter. Whoever it is, their only intention was to agree to create an alibi for their false witness not to show up, not to testify because he is a false witness and some imaginary witnesses to say that they are not allowed to testify because they are afraid, right, Dragan Markovica Palma, because you see he robs the apartment, he scares witnesses and they call it Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac. They say – bring Dragan Markovic to Palm because he scares and influences witnesses. What witnesses? We don't have a witness. I call on this opportunity for another matter to Mrs. Zagorko Dolovac and the institutions of the system, the prosecution, etc. to bring in someone for whom there is evidence, for whom there are witnesses, for whom there are victims, which is Dragana Gilas, because I was a little while ago, and also recently in the Assembly I showed an official note from 2014. Violence in the family, violence against women can't go out of date, it can't go out of date. This must always be current and the state must act legally on the official note and prosecute the bully Dragan Gilas. In 2019, he said somewhere that Eva Gilas had denied that official note. You know what? That can't be denied. That man can make a deal with his ex-wife, and he can't deny it. I, Ivo Gilas, understand. She's a mother. She has to take care of her children. She has to take care of their lives and I understand that she had to settle, but the system's institutions have to act legally on such an official note. They have to react to every domestic violence and every violence against women. It's unacceptable not to react to such a thing. Marinika Tepic and her clicks are, of course, informed political Pharisees who give themselves the right to be those who investigate, they are the ones who sue, they are the ones who judge, while completely disprove and deny both the police and the prosecution and the court. They don't recognize them. No, they're not the institutions of this country where they live. They confess only their truth and confess only their justice. So I call them Pharisees who can judge and give themselves the right to judge everyone and everyone, and their only truth is true. Of course, the main producer and director of this dirty soap opera is Dragan Gilas, a man without scruples, a bully who in defending his personal business interest is ready for anything. He said the other day in an interview on one television that he had an abnormal fortune thanks to his machine brain, because he knew how to take 20% away from 100% and 20% more. So he spit in the face of all Serbian citizens, because everyone knows the percentage bill and it's not any heavy mathematics, and he especially spit in the face of all the machine engineers in this Serbia. Because I don't know any machine engineer who also has a machine brain, who also knows the percentage account, who's earned as much money as Dragan Gilas has earned. And they all have a lot more machine experience than Dragan Gilas himself. These people work in their companies or in other companies, they make their bread hard, they make products, they want to place their products on the market, and then Dragan Gilas comes to resell their ads and seconds and get an abnormal fortune. Of course, this isn't about brains, because nothing Dragan Gilas is smarter, nor is his machine brain than the machine brain of other machine engineers and than the brain of any Serbian citizen. This is about elementary morality and nothing else. Because using privileges in power and monopoly and reselling seconds, that's all his art and all his knowledge. But these lies won't stop us. I am telling you here, and I am also telling them, Dragan Djilasu, Marinika Tepic and all those members of that interested group, that we will continue with the works, this state and the institutions of this country, and we from the Unique Serbia, and Dragan Markovic Palm, we will all continue to work even harder to leave the works. Because the only parameters of our political action are actions, and their parameters are hate and lies. We shall leave our deeds to future generations, and they shall remain to choke in their hatred and in their lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6343	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6344	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with associates, each of the laws in this first item of the agenda is interesting in itself and each could be said of much good, because each of them is actually focused on improving and encouraging the climate for further economic development, which, of course, is of great importance for the whole country and the whole society at this point. One of these laws is amendments and additions to the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, not only because it is a topic of primary importance for us Social Democrats, but because at this point it is an extremely important topic and if we take into account the global circumstances of the pandemic caused by the coronal virus that has affected the whole world and we think that a more curious and far-sighted view of exactly what measures are to improve employment and solve problems in this area would be of exceptional benefit and as a contribution to better understanding of the problem, so that we can find a more adequate solution. Unfortunately, as I said, even if we wanted to, we cannot avoid the influence of the pandemic of the coronary virus on the question of employment, but we can respect the current circumstances and see what we can do despite these existing circumstances to meet the stated goal and achieve what is the Strategy and the Action Plan on Employment and Defined. This is a good opportunity to remind and to point out that the state has done so since the beginning - it has focused on and accepted the existing circumstances and focused on finding solutions despite the current situation. For us, the Social Democrats, one of the basic ideas and principles is the equality of people, equal opportunities and life worth living, that is, building a more human and fairer society. For every man, freedom, equality, proportionate division of social wealth, respect, solidarity and equality are the odds of basic value and the principles of justice. Since justice does not exist unless it covers all segments of society, unless it is social, social differences should be made as small as possible and they can only be justified if they are based on mutual benefit. The proportionate distribution of social wealth that the state can implement has the importance of ensuring justice in society and implies the right and possibility of all, and especially those who, by their will, have found themselves at the bottom of the social scale, and have the right, as everyone else, to feed, dress, school, school, cure, live and heat. Advocacy for social justice for us also means a commitment to politics with a human character, i.e. the fight for workers' rights, the achievement of social security and care for the unemployed, respect for pensioners, the improvement of middle-class status, the equal position of women and the participation of all, including, of course, sensitive, marginal groups in decision-making processes. It is necessary to correct a huge injustice that makes the difference between having and not having. Equality is seen as a prerequisite for freedom. Equal opportunities and equality of initial chances rests on the idea of bringing all individuals into approximately the same initial position. The equality of outcomes includes some kind of security mechanism based on appropriate system redistribution in favour of all those who, despite the equality of the initial chances, are still lagging behind, so they need help on that path. We, in the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, see also today's topic, and see both the Strategy and the Action Plan, thus seeing all the efforts that the government is making to improve and improve and further improve the economic environment and maintain the overall liquidity. We also see the role of the National Employment Service, which realizes and implements everything defined by key documents in creating public policies in the field of employment. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law also specify that the basic document of public policies is in the field of active employment policy Employment Strategy and the Action Plan for its application. Analysing the latest available data on registered employment, it can be concluded that the labour market in Serbia resists the negative effects of the pandemic. Employment in the formal labour market in the second quarter of last year registered a growth of ten thousand, an increase of 0.5% compared to the previous quarter, while last year's third quarter saw a growth of 1.3% compared to the second quarter. These are all extremely good indicators and indicators. As I said, they do not maintain the negative influence of the Kvid 19 pandemic and the economic crisis it has caused. This was largely contributed by the achieved fiscal balance and financial stability during the previous period, but of course also by a set of economic support measures for the economy and the population in order to preserve the liquidity of the economic system and maintain economic activity and employment. Serbia's EU accession is one of the priorities of this government, and further improving employment policy is conditioned by the development of a general European employment policy framework. The Action Plan for Chapter 19 – Social Policy and Employment was in line with the European Commission, and the Serbian government adopted the action plan in May last year. This document is a framework for the gradual transposition of the legal fluids of the European Union into our legislation and for the creation of the necessary capacities for their application and implementation in all areas covered by the Social Policy and Employment Chapter. The main priority, therefore, on Serbia's social agenda is the process of harmonising national legislation with European Union legislation, i.e. reaching European labour, social and cultural standards. Starting from the European social model, the main objectives would be to make work accessible and profitable, pension system sustainable, quality education and health services available to all, because only in this way can we reduce both unemployment and poverty in the long term, but also social isolation. Chapter two, freedom of movement of workers, is among the fundamental principles of the European Union and is one of the four freedoms of the internal market. Since it covers the scope, access to the labour market, the European Employment Service, the coordination of the social security system and the European Health Insurance Card, the opening of the negotiating chapter, the negotiating position was adopted and forwarded to the European Union in July 2018. Therefore, the opening of this negotiating chapter and the course of negotiations will affect further normative and national alignment with the European Union's liquids. There's that, but there's that. Despite significant improvements in the labour market, the Republic of Serbia unfortunately lags behind the average values of the European Union countries' core indicators, which is also in the Employment Strategy, as a challenge that this government will certainly face during the period ahead. Therefore, the difference in the key indicators of the labour market between 15 and 64 years of age is one of the biggest challenges in the accession process. The largest gap is recorded at the employment rate of the working age population – 69.2% versus 60.7% if I'm not mistaken. So in European countries, the population is significantly more active in the labour market. What is important to say is that the strategy recognises sensitive and more difficult employable groups and young people, and women, and persons with disabilities, and members of Roma nationality, as well as other national minorities and all those categories of more difficult employees. The participation of men in Serbia's total registered employment is 54% and is greater than women's participation, which is 46%. In the population structure of Serbia, women account for 51.3%, according to estimates from 2019, and if only the population of working age is observed, it turns out that this difference is smaller and that the woman actually has only 4,500 more than men, due to this gender equality of the working age population, but also women's participation among the active population is about 45-46%. Given that participation in the labour market and employment contributes greatly to economic independence and social inclusion, this is why women are characterised as a vulnerable group on the labour market and as such you also recognise in the Employment Strategy, but of course through concrete measures and in the action plan for its implementation. So, the Republic of Serbia is the first country, while we are already with women and their participation in the labour market, it should be said that our country is the first country outside the European Union to introduce a gender equality index and it is 55.8% for our country, which represents an improvement in gender equality, i.e. a rise in the index by 3.4 points. However, Serbia continues to record lower index values compared to the European Union average of 66.2. It's important that we're not far from that average, since our average is 55.8. One of the main axes of inequality recorded by the Equality Index refers to gender segregation that is established during education and continues later on in the labour market. Inequality is also visible in the domain of money, because women have lower incomes than men, and individual groups of women are also exposed to higher risks than poverty. Imequities in the area of time show how many women spend their time and work caring about household and family, or doing work for which they are not paid. The gender equality index is a measuring instrument that measures gender equality on scales from 1 to 100 and according to another index of equality, the Republic of Serbia, and this should be pointed out, is better positioned than many European Union countries, both from Cyprus, and the Czech Republic, and Croatia, and Romania, and Slovakia, and Hungary and Greece. Young people are also recognised in the strategy as a more difficult working group. Young faces are from 15 to 30 years old. A wider group of young people is influenced by global social changes that have led to the phenomenon of extended youth, which implies a longer period of education process, hence, a later entry into the labour market, as well as later marriage and parenting. However, according to the International Labour Organisation definition, young people represent a narrow group of 15-24-year-olds, which is also used in labour polls due to comparisons of international data. Looking at the movement of labour market indicators over the past period, it is also evident that young people have improved their initially very poor position. The rate of inactivity of young people was 53% in 2019 and was almost unchanged. Such a high degree of inactivity can be explained, as I have already mentioned, by schooling, because young people in the process of education are less present at the same time and on the labour market, compared to their peers from the European Union countries. The transition from school to the first stable or satisfying job takes a very long, almost two years, much longer than six and a half months, the average time for which a young person finds his first job after completing education in the European Union. What is also a challenge in the period ahead is the adoption of rules in the area of social entrepreneurship. Although it has been done several times, the task remains a challenge for the next period, since we have not done so so far. The creation of a new Labour Act has not been set up, true, as a task in the National Employment Strategy for the period 2011 to 2020, however, the new strategy states that practice shows the need to review the harmonisation of the Law in working with directives and other regulations of the European Union, i.e. to comply with international standards. The sustainability of the results of the Strategic Employment Policy Framework achieved over the past period will largely depend on decision-makers' determination to ensure continuity in the application of accepted policies, to use previously developed resources and to strengthen capacity with the realization of development measures and interventions. Employment policy, therefore, defines the reform steps to be taken to successfully develop an efficient labour market in our country, in line with other development objectives and, of course, with the requirements of accelerated technological development. The growth of employment needs to be characterised by quality, but also by a reduction in social inequalities that are a limiting factor in economic growth and overall social progress. As this is also the topic of sustainable development that is in line with the 2030 UN Agenda on Sustainable Development, then we come up with that there is no sustainable development without peace, and one of the laws on the agenda is the Law on the Museum of Victims of Genocides. These changes are practically formal. It is about moving the museum headquarters from Kragujevac to Belgrade, as the museum has functioned in Belgrade since 1992, although the formal seat has been in Kragujevac. The harmonisation of this law with the new laws of the Law on Culture and the Law on Museums, but this topic is always a good reason to comment on and promote peace building, peace conservation and the cultivation of a memory culture. Peace is one of the three main pillars of sustainable development, with equality and consensus on what are the priorities of the development of a society. Women are the greatest promoters of peace, precisely because they are recognized and as the greatest losers of peace-free development, without equality and without consensus. So working to build a culture of peace and cultivate a memory culture is extremely important for all of our future generations. It's important now, because it's the only way we can move forward. From the truth and from facing their own victims, it is also necessary to awaken empathy towards other peoples' victims, without counting the victims, because the loss of one human life is already a crime enough in itself. So understanding your own pain needs to awaken understanding and respect and other victims, because that's the only way we can move forward. The talk of genocide, ethnic cleansing, fascism, and even its own nation must not be the subject of suspicion in our country or in any country of our region, because facing the past and rising above it is not the reconciliation with crimes and their forgiveness, but the need to learn to live with what has been happening, to live with the memory that crimes are unfortunately part of our history and that overcoming the past is a permanent process and a constant reminder, not a definitive reconciliation of the past. And, here, since I have already exceeded the time I have as authorized, it remains only in the end to say that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6345	Thank you. The word has an SVM parliamentary group, Dr. Emeshe Uri.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6346	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SVM will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act because we consider the law to be well-designed, meaningful, advanced, and in line with European standards. The constitutional basis of the law is in the very Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for the law being passed are the reasons for harmonising with certain provisions of the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia. What is important about the proposal for this law is that the main document of public policy is in the field of active employment policy, practically, the Employment Strategy and the Action Plan. The strategy in any domain of life, as well as in public policies and employment, is very important, because it is time-shared, it makes direction, direction of decisions, and thus the Action Plan can lead to this ultimate goal and achievement. What is very important is that the document of these public policies practically shifts responsibility to both local and employment levels is practically formed at this local level, all in looking at some specificities of each territory, each city individually, and thus it is much more meaningful than if the plan is centralized. As far as the Strategy is concerned, it takes six years, and the Action Plans are being adopted over a period of three years. This is also very important, because after three years it can be seen that these action plans are appropriate, whether there has been a shift, whether it is going in the direction that is directed at the Strategy. As far as some indicators are concerned, employment policy measures are very important, because they practically allow the data to be obtained at any moment and to look at the situation at present, to assess the financial resources needed to continue to be managed properly. Then, what are the financial effects of this law, or Strategy? It is very important that local self-governments if they have made a good action plan, they can count on co-financing by the ministry if the plan is appropriate. If we're talking about planning, it's very important how we control it. So monitoring, analysis, coordination and very important communication that needs to be built between other ministries and other resolution institutions. This is primarily important because of the education system, because this law and this whole strategy is practically curative. So now we're thinking about how we're going to solve this problem, the current situation. So we have people over 60, and they're hard to hire. We've got young people who haven't finished their education yet, haven't started their families, and they're having trouble finding a job. We also have that group, unfortunately, of our fellow citizens who are low education or even uneducated. So, they don't have a profession, they don't have a profession, and they're practically very hard to get a proper job. That is why it is very important that some future plans, and I believe that the Ministry is now in good hands, because the minister worked at the Institute of Batut, where data is constantly analysed, are constantly being made some projects, constantly being watched as and why the situation occurred. That is why it is very important that education is coordinated planically somewhere and that practically depends on the number of schools, the number of places in these schools, from what needs are at the site. So, not to be versed, not to be – well, we have that school, so we're not going to close it, but to plan whether there's a need for that profession, whether there's maybe something else to do. This is some future that's already being built. It's very difficult to change some way of thinking, some ways that we've made plans so far, but if we succeed in that, if this collaboration is established between different ministries to look at the whole, I believe that, no matter how rich we are, we'll be able to step up as we did in some situations in the past year. As far as local self-government is concerned, it is very important that those who make as many local self-government as possible, as many cities as possible, as many municipalities make a plan of employment and make their local employment advices and make their own action plans, to look at their businesses, with their subjects, with their schools, in which direction they should jointly lead their local self-governments. As far as this draft bill is concerned, it actually brings in one programming and project planning, thinking in the employment institution itself. It is very important that we are all aware that practical employment, or the ability of every citizen to attract employment, is practically what ensures our survival and our future. Who's going to do where and what, what money and whether they're going to be recognized, these are some arguments that are very important in deciding whether a young man will stay in this country or go abroad? Unfortunately, this sometimes applies to our older citizens, so they too go and look for jobs in some other environments to provide their families with basic well - being. To get to the point that there are enough young people, so I'm starting from the beginning, meaning that young people are employed, that may be the most important item and the most important factor for the future of our country, needed to be built between institutional co-operation. As I mentioned earlier, education should follow the needs of society, the needs of economy, the needs of citizens. I'd like to set a practical example. We in Vojvodina have been having a hard time finding doctors in the last two years who will be working on the level of primary health care. Hospitals can still draw some teamwork, some opportunities for further progress, primarily professional advances of young doctors, but at the primary level, it's very difficult. That's why my advice would be to think about it eventually. This aspect affects whether increasing the number of students admitted to the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad or possibly opening a new university in Vojvodina. If we're going to compare Serbia and Vojvodina, Serbia's narrow to about three million inhabitants, there are three medical universities, and Vojvodina with some less than two million inhabitants, there's one college. Maybe that's the same reason we can keep the level of health care for the future in Vojvodina. It should also consider recognising some of the professions that have emerged lately. These are professional nurses and technicians, who have been for several years, who have also graduated from the secondary school in Novi Sad, Belgrade and other cities and environments. They are an educated frame that is necessary and necessary, especially at the primary and local level. This is one large capacity, one large number of educated people, young people who are willing to work in the field. They could replace, possibly help environments where there aren't enough doctors, they're nurses who can work on prevention, they can work in palitatives, care, they can work in possible education and young people for a healthy lifestyle, such as patronage sisters. The same where it could be much better used in hospital conditions, but unfortunately, current staff plans and even job catalogues do not recognize this frame. Don't forget that these people went to school, gave up some of their other futures, to finish those colleges. Also, in social work centres, there are not enough social workers. It's the same profession that's deficient, and on the other hand, the same profile of profession is kind of unaffirmed, it's a labor that's a pain in the ass, and it's not branded, it's not desirable for young people, it certainly would mean a lot if we had quality social workers in our social institutions, because there are problems and how. Branding professions is the same important factor in patching up some shortcomings in our system and hiring and finding a job somewhere. Don't forget, I don't know what it's like in Serbia, but in Vojvodina, it's very hard to find a good master, a good cook, a good baker, a good plumber, a ceramic, a locksmith, not to list some basic professions that are unpopular among young people, on the one hand, and on the other hand those who are good go abroad. I think it's one potential, and it should be from small legs, but during primary school, recognize children who have manual abilities and that simply, that profession, which has been diminished for many years, and it was only important to enroll in any college and have it finished, but then they won't have any jobs, and they won't make any income, but it was a shame to have a child enroll in some craft school. Dual education is the same good step in that direction. I hope that both the economy and the education will see the benefits of that, and ultimately our society. As far as education is concerned, perhaps we should consider increasing the human plans for education. Last year she pointed out some very interesting things that we may have predicted or forgotten. We always complain about having a few children. Last year, however, teachers who had to go online with online teaching to educate their students were extremely burdened. That's one problem that might be waiting for us in the future. On the other hand, the same teachers in regular school activities are overloaded, as well as students. In the end, families get hurt, mothers primarily when that child comes home, can't just prepare for school classes, but parents have to sit next to that child. Perhaps you should consider, in practice, reducing the number of educators, no matter what the number of children is, rather than providing better quality services in schools, that is, dispersing parents. Don't forget a nurse who doesn't have enough, they're going abroad. Then, it is very important to think about hiring women in rural areas, whether they are based on some local initiatives or in collaboration with some foreign projects. Let's just say Sombor made an extraordinary lavender project. So, growing lavender in practically minimally demanding conditions, small garden gardens, and in this way these women have received adequate training to be the drivers of some of their craftsmanship, have their well-organized, practical placement of their product at the end. Local initiatives are very important and should be heard, ultimately and centrally where any of the problems is most pronounced and in this direction to plan the future. Strengthening Banja tourism is the same possibility that rural environments are eventually afirmed at the end of the day. The Vojvodina lies on thermal waters, and the very weak use of these great potentials is very weak. As far as Banjski tourism is concerned, I think it's a very profitable branch for the future. The same is true of health tourism. Vojvodina is practically surrounded by EU countries, Romania, Hungary, Croatia. It can be extremely interesting for those citizens of those countries because, unfortunately or fortunately, we are much cheaper than they are. All in all, I hope that in addition to these strategies that solve the current problems that the Ministry will also hear about plans for the future, for enlargement, for giving some, practically hope for future generations. In front of the SVM parliamentary group, we will support the joint draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6347	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the Serbian Patriotic Union, Zeljko Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6348	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will address the public most about these amendments and the addition of the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocide. Ms. Minister, Maja Gojkovic essentially said everything she needs to say. So the museum headquarters is being moved from Kragujevac to Belgrade where it essentially works. This law is in line with the Museum's Labour Act, which we passed on April 7th, not so long ago, less than a month ago. As the historical mark of our people is known, and this will be witnessed by many historians, sociologists, culturalists, politicians, writers, because, of course, I will always put KIM first, they are villages, but the Serbian people have one more thing that marked it and characterized these injuries. These perils seen in various riots, riots, wars, etc., would particularly point out World War II and I would particularly highlight the genocide of the Serb people that took place in the infamous Jasenovac camp on the territory of today's NDH. I must, simply my conscience requires me to remind myself of an event that happened not long ago here in Belgrade, and the organizers of the gathering also urged that someone mention it in the Assembly. In fact, on 21 April, it was also held less than a month ago in the premises of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts at the Jasenovac Memorial Academy. Let me tell you that the organizers, which included academics, survived campers, some MPs, were Mrs Jelena Buhač Radojić, who made the film "Dara from Jasenovac", that one mother was eleven children and that there was one impressive and emotional gathering, and their conclusion and essential request was one that was also the president of Mr. Ivica Dacic's Assembly at the end of one of the previous sessions and said that we would bear in mind that soon the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the Ustatic Genocide of NDH on Serbs, Jews and Roma. In addition to the mentioned guests at this solemn academy, there was one, in my opinion a very important historical person who, thank God, is alive and healthy. That's Mr. Gideon Graef, who wasn't too hard to fly from Israel where he came from. I'll remind you who doesn't know it's a professor who teaches at universities in Australia, Estonia, Israel, Lithuania, Germany, New Zealand, Poland and the United States. I wouldn't spend a lot of words on him, I think the title of one of his books is enough to illustrate who he is and what he is like. The book is called "Jasenovac - Auschwitz Balkana". If we, as MPs, and if this institution, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, realizes that such a resolution should, in my opinion, be brought by an urgent procedure, I think we have a historic task ahead of us and we should do it. The concept of genocide deals with many, of course, casually, often. What Serbian children, Roma and Jewish, Serbian women, Serbian men, Serbian old men and women have experienced in Jasenovac will remain recorded in the history of humanity, not only of one, two or three people, but of the whole world. We are here to have this culture of memories that we often talk about, to remember, of course, among others at that Academy of Ceremony was present and here present Mrs. Smilja Tishma, who also increased the gathering and not just for her and for ourselves. You know how, the waterless seas and oceans sail ships, so when they get into certain problems they send that famous SOS signal to English "save our souls" or "save our souls". Let us save our souls and souls of all the victims and the survivors and those who strive a little and forget and relativize what happened in Jasenovac in that evil camp, to save our souls and ourselves, of course, and Mrs Tishma who, thank God alive, is still witnessing what was going on there. Not enough film, not enough, this is a big job standing in front of our entire people that not only one professor from Israel has to deal with it anymore, but many of our scientists, writers and so on, as we have had significant, literary and historical works about KIM or Seobama, so it is the order that, as in the law of the current one that we are changing but not significantly and not much today, which is not bad, that on April 22nd, when prisoners committed a breakthrough in the Ustasha camp Jasenovac, we mark every year, but the next even more solemn and more significant, that every person, every citizen of the Serbian state knows what was going on in the Usta camp Jasenovac. No one can relativize, minimize, and I would even declare that a certain type of delinquent, a certain type of work whoever is trying to do it. We want to respect some other crimes as genocides. Of course we have to think of our pride and dignity, but above all, the truth. What's true can't be replaced by certain other thesis. We all know what Jasenovac was, and today there are people who think that some other people, some other people, were killed in Jasenovac. However, it is known that there is only one Serb who ended up in the camp because he is a Serb, not because he was another ideological commitment compared to the ruling Ustasha regime, but only because he is a Serb. This is what every citizen of this country must have in mind, just as every Roma has ended up as a Roma and as every Jew has ended because he is a Jew. There were some Croats, too, but he didn't get hurt because he was a Croat. Now, that is a feature of genocide that we must respect and that this culture of memory and of victims, but also respect for the survivors, but that we ourselves and the whole country and all the people and all the citizens of Serbia respect the greatest and that we hopefully bring this resolution as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6349	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's Socialist Party, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6350	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, today a set of laws are on the agenda, each of which deserves our attention. The intensive work of parliament in this session really enables us to deal with serious social issues and issues of Serbia's development precisely through the creation of legal bases, if at all I can say, which allow, above all, the faster transformation of our society into a modern and legally regulated society, where the state is responsible for citizens. In this direction, I am also looking at today's debate of five important laws and I will look back at some of them, and they will certainly be discussed in more detail by my fellow MPs. The first draft law is the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. The essence of the amendment to this law, which regulates the way state employment policy is implemented, is of a legal-technical nature, and it seems to me that you have also said that, a respected minister, is harmonising this law with the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment concerns a document in the field of active employment policy, which is a strategy to be adopted for a period of six years and an action plan to be adopted for three years. This bill will certainly be spoken of more by my colleagues, I would only point out the role of state employment policy not only to reduce the unemployment rate, but also to Serbia's overall development. Youth employment is also a development goal, but also somehow prevention of Serbia's depopulation, which, unfortunately, emptys itself on two grounds, is one of the white plagues, and the other is the departure of young and professional personnel abroad. This must be prevented by the motivation of young people to stay in their country and get a chance to work and live, form families and plan offspring, which is very important. Without this priority, which I think you have recognized and which this law also treats, long-term Serbia can remain truly without the population and without the workforce. The second law I would speak of is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the sealing of state and other bodies. The changes represent a continuation of the digitalisation process in the public administration sector, whose five-year reform already yields significant results. That's what you were talking about, Minister Obradovic, and somewhere the most significant fruit of this reform is the transformation of the state into the service of citizens, the efficiency of the work of civil servants, the simplification of administrative procedures and ultimately the cheaper state. The e-government law made it easier to communicate between citizens and administrations and forever changed the way public services are provided to citizens and businesses, because now access to public services is simpler and cheaper and, if I'm not mistaken, I'm going to quote you, you said that we are close to the day when we won't be able to say "failing one piece of paper" and that's kind of the goal, and we talked about it in the last term and we were working on the subject and we were hoping to get to the goal and here we are in close, I would say. The Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business, which was adopted in 2017, also introduces an electronic seal. We also adopted the Law on Electronic Business so that the opportunities of legal persons for the use of the advantages offered by this type of electronic business are expanded. Also, the Government Regulation on the office business of the State Administration provides for the electronic exchange of documents certified by electronic seal and all these facts, today we are discussing the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the sealing of state and other bodies, which is necessary, above all, because of the legitimate harmonisation of the application of the electronic seal on electronic documents. These changes, in addition to the formalities related to the content and the appearance of the electronic seals themselves, also treat the questions of authority for the production, application, registration and control of the seals, which is, you said in your opening presentation, important and will disable any kind of abuse of the same. The third law I will also talk a little bit about is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contracts in Railway Traffic. This regulation also regulates the rights of passengers and liability of railway undertakings in the case of train delays. This will increase railway confidence and re-affirm rail transport as the safest and cheapest form of transport. Today, unfortunately, rail traffic has no meaning, nor the size it once had in the era of expansion of the journey of the 40s. Unfortunately, in the time behind, we had little investment, at least small investments. Therefore, the majority of passengers today, as a reason for avoiding this kind of traffic, actually cited great delays in trains, too long the duration of the journey, the wear-out of infrastructure and wagons, but the time of major capital investments in railways came, from the reconstruction of a number of railways through the construction of high-speed railways and the construction of a Belgrade subway, and in the context of the development of rail traffic and the redefining of its role, are also proposed these amendments to the laws, which improve passenger rights. In the event of train delays, the passenger will be able to interrupt the journey and request a refund of the full amount of ticket price in case the train is late for more than 60 minutes, if I understand the proposal well. And if the passenger is defined as continuing such a journey, he is entitled to compensation at the level of part of the amount of the ticket depending on the time of the train delay. Passengers could have charged some sort of damage by now, but few did, above all, because the train tickets were cheap, not so expensive, or at least the passengers didn't know they were entitled to it. But when we have high-speed railways, which carry along certain and expensive maps, more complaints are expected and the demand for money to be recovered for every minute of delay, but also minor delays or there may not be. In addition to improving passenger rights in rail transport, which will practically reach the level of European standards in this area, this change achieves another very important goal, which is the motivation of the railway undertaking to operate effectively, to raise the quality of its service and to improve the reliability of rail passenger traffic. These provisions will only apply two years after the entry into force of this law, given that a large number of infrastructure works on Serbian railways are under way, which is currently a significant obstacle to regularity and reliability, above all, rail services. Finally, but not least, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocide. The proposed solutions can be formally seen as harmonising this law with the Law on Culture regarding legal and technical and organisational issues, such as the method of proposing and selecting the authorities of the museum and moving the seat of the Kragujevac Museum of Victims to Belgrade. But for me, indeed, and for each of us, it seems to me, this law does not have a technical character, or at least not just a technical character. It is a matter that concerns the significant and most significant historical issue, which is the victims of genocide committed against Serbs in World War II, which is why the museum was founded. The Kragujevac-based genocide victims' museum was founded in 1992. At that time, it must have matured awareness of the national interest that Serbia should address this historic issue and the biggest issue, which is to study genocide against Serbs committed in World War II and collect facts, data and documentation on this loss, so that everything is learned and absolutely never forgotten. Today, we would use the term fostering a culture of memory. At the same time, the establishment of a museum has met the obligations of the UN International Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocide. Until that year 1992, Serbia unfortunately had no institution that would collect historical structures and evidence of genocide, as the most brutal form of the Serbian people's destruction in this war, organised first by the Ustasha formation of NDH, and then by Hitler's Nazi Germany and its occupiers. It's hard, but it has to be said that the crimes of Ustasha NDH were where and where more brutal than Hitler's Nazi Germany, and perhaps the most difficult moment is that we were brought into a situation to think about who was less brutal. That's why we have to let the children know that we survived the genocide. The museum headquarters was in Kragujevac, which was chosen in 1992 as a place of fierce Nazi crime committed on 21 October 1941, when three thousand innocent civilians were shot in one day, including 300 Kragujevac High School students. However, when we say genocide against Serbs, almost every one of us thinks first of Jasenovac, the most notorious and deadly camp that was founded in 1941. NDH. Ustasha ideology, or Ustasha's final solution, as they called it, meant only Croatia to the Croats. It began on April 28, 1941, when 196 people, Serbs and Jews, were brutally killed in the village of Gudovac near Bjelovar. Ustashas began their final solution as long as six months before the Nazi final solution, and the Ustasha genocide in NDH from 1941 to 1945 resulted in the brutal killing of hundreds of thousands of people on NDH territory, primarily Serbs and tens of thousands of Jews and Roma and other minorities. In NDH, 84 mass massacres, 2,643 local crimes were committed in 47 Ustasha camps, and living people were thrown into 84 karst caves. A special example of Ustasha genocide was carried out in a clay church when 1,030 people, women and children were slaughtered overnight, and even 2,500 were tortured and killed in exile in Petrova Gora. The Ustasha genocide in NDH was committed barbaricly and brutally. Mostly by hand, knives, mallets, axes, special blades, which are the most famous "serbs". I'm conscious of all this, to keep it in writing. The brutal example of bestiality is the butchering of rabbis Isaac Daniel Danon and Vukashin Mandrap from Clapac. The Ustashas were the only ones in World War II who had special camps for children, who during the conduct of the cleansing of the Croatian nation were the first to strike. During the war, 71,560 children were killed in NDH only because they were Serbs, Jews or Roma. A permanent change in Serbia's demographic picture thanks to camps in NDH. It was an organized extermination of a nation and my colleague spoke of Israeli Professor Gideon Graif. He is researching the Holocaust and genocide, and he said that Jasenovac is Balkan Auschwitz, but that he has surpassed all Nazi camps by cruelty and bloodshed, and this is what I said at first. Unfortunately, Jasenovac is a place that has served as a place to make history even a graduation of crime and has broken out to the very top, it has become a measure of brutality. Despite all these facts, many today want to reduce Serbian sacrifice. Auditors who bid on the number of Serb victims appear, with the number of all victims committed in NDH from 1941 to 1945 to reduce our loss or end history or whatever. I still can't believe that whoever needs that kind of review really thinks it's a smaller crime if they reduce the number of victims, even if the victim was just one, killed in one of the brutal ways that we've had the opportunity to read and hear, and that's a lot, let alone measure thousands, and now they're allowing themselves to bid on that subject. It goes so far that some, who would like to cover their own crimes, Serbs are declaring the genocide people and now the key question is -- how is that possible? I will quote a statement by the president of the National Assembly and the president of my party from the time he was Foreign Minister, Mr Dacic, who said that Serbs are a genocide people when only the Serbs have fewer in BiH, both in Croatia and in Kosovo and Metohija. That's how it is. But we have this tendency, and I wouldn't even be me if I didn't go back to the representatives of the so-called. Pristina authorities, some temporary institutions, who have dared to say they will sue Serbia for genocide against Albanians. So, Serbia will sue those who killed Djordz Martinovic, sue Serbia those who invented Račak, those who took out the organs in the yellow house, those who burned, destroyed and expelled 250,000 Serbs, those who have unequivocally sought to take part of our territory and to admit that, for God's sake, it is their own and that, by taking away some of our territory, they realize their great dream of great Albania, exactly as their great dream of an independent and ethnically pure Croatia came true several decades later, some heirs of the famous NDH. All of this, unfortunately, is being abused, accusing Serbia of some aspirations towards great Serbia, a Serbia that only remembers its victims and tries to collect all the documentation and finally count them, precisely because of what the SPAS counterpart was talking about, and that is to save all those souls and save ours in this time that is ours and that binds us. To return to the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Museum of Victims of Genocide. The headquarters of the museum is being moved from Kragujevac to Belgrade, as I understand it, there are already rooms in this institution, it is not seen from the law which will be the location, but we believe that this museum, as an institution of culture, will play a historically important role, which is precisely that - the collection, processing and use of data on Serbian and other genocide victims in World War II. I'm sure he'll justify the trust the state has given him with one of these laws. It is important that the museum is responsible and committed further to its research into genocide, in order to prevent the revision of history and the attempt to completely reduce the Serb genocide victim. In the end, not least, as someone who comes from Kosovo and Metohija and who knows that the Kosovo covenant is our spiritual vertical, we as a people have another vow, which is a Jasenovic covenant and I understand all surviving campers who are somewhere living monuments and witnesses of the most dramatic forms of Serb suffering in Ustasha death camps. In that sense, the Socialists today have pride, and it seems to me to be proud of all of us, as the current council, our dear Smile Tishma. A child of Croatian camps. A child who was taken away for seven years on two occasions and returned from the camp. A child who, when he was nine or ten, was assigned to care for his two younger sisters and his younger brother because he had no parents. A child who remembers and kidnaps a father who, if I'm not mistaken, picked cherry and that separation from his mother, who was later killed and the suffering that had passed and hungry and thirsty and this struggle from which four men had grown up, who had finished colleges. And here it is today as a folk MP, perhaps with a historic role, to say from the first face of unity, what Serbia must say, which is - Yes, we were victims! Yes, you slaughtered our children! Yes, few of us survived! And yes, let's not forget that it wouldn't happen again, because one who once was able to be this brutal will have no problem making it another time. Somewhere in the spirit of amanetta for all of us, so that no such evil can ever be repeated to anyone again, I will still finish my exhibition with the lyrics of the poet Ljiljana Bralović, who says: "Is it necessary again in our house for the Serbs to open their forgetfulness of the Jasenovese nightmare, for the pits of the homeless, for the thousands of tired children, for the black tissues and leeks, seemingly so far away, and woven in every day of God where we pay our tribute for oblivion?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6351	Thank you. For our children, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6352	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", there is no dilemma in Dan to vote on all five proposed laws will receive support from our parliamentary group. Why? Because all five proposed laws are in the interest of a better quality of life for each citizen of the Republic of Serbia, in the interest of faster and more efficient public administrations, in the interest of state institutions becoming civil services thanks to digitalisation, not citizens of couriers of state institutions. Because legal solutions are in line with EU laws and directives, because the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia is EU membership. Serbia is seeking EU membership to improve for its citizens, above all. Then, we will support all these laws for the reason that the proposed laws cultivate a memory culture of genocide that took place over the Serb, Jewish and Roma people, the terrible crimes committed during World War II in the area of the then NDH. We have first memories, we have the right to mark it, we have no right to forget it, because memory is the only way that it doesn't happen again. Now I'm going to start with the first draft of the law, it's a bill on amendments and additions to the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. First of all, I have to point out that in the first quarter of 2020, there are 2,248,200 workers in the central register of compulsory social security. This is compared to the first quarter of 2020 by 2.8% higher, i.e. we have more than 61,366 employees. This is proof that the Republic of Serbia, regardless of its enormous efforts and struggle, leads primarily to the preservation of the lives and health of our people, and that it is successful on the economic plan, and employment certainly contributes and raises wages and raises pensions and the construction of new hospitals and the construction of highways and railways. I must point out that the draft Employment Act also set aside 5.7 billion dinars for active employment policy measures of 18.225 people, but I must point out that 2,185 persons with disabilities are also included, just as support for these persons to get to adequate employment as soon as possible, and thus improve the quality of their lives. What I must point out is that all these years, and of course by budget for 2021 and rebalancing, the government has provided additional assistance for 33 alliances of persons with disabilities and 513 local associations. This, of course, refers to software activities. Also, I must point out that the active employment policy measures include Roma as a particularly sensitive group. I must point out that, thanks to the amendments and additions to the Law on Education and the introduction of a dual education system and how it improved, and how it led children to find employment long before they finished dual education. When it comes to Roma, I can't help but remember how Dragan Gilas was helping the Roma at the time of his government. He helped them by violating their fundamental human rights, which are the human right to exist, the human right to work, the human right to health care, the human right to social protection. How was that Dragan Gilas Radio? By the fact that there were as many as 30,000 legal-invisible persons in the Belgrade city itself, mostly Roma nationality. He forced them to move into tin containers, openly saying that he was not moving them for them, but because of the location behind them, which is the location "Bellville", so that he would share the locations and the money with his tycoons, of course. I must also point out that by 2012, when it comes to persons with disabilities, and the proposal for an active employment policy is particularly vulnerable and sensitive and stimulating, ultimately, measures, including persons with disabilities. Gilas's friend Pajtic of Vojvodina robbed children distracted by stealing 167 million, building, to God, the Hetherland Castle. The castle, of course, wasn't built, children distracted by development were robbed, and only ruins remained behind. What I must also point out is that in 2020 was apart from the global health crisis, it was one of the biggest economic crises, but I must also point out, thanks to the fiscal consolidation measures that President Aleksandar Vukic started in 2014 with measures that were painful and difficult, but only realistic ones, we created real conditions, four years in a row we had a surplus in the budget and we created conditions that in such difficult times as the question of the Kovid-19 virus, the virus of death, help both citizens and businesses. It is an International Labour Organisation, such as the IMF, but the whole world has also said that the economic package of measures taken by the government of the Republic of Serbia is one of the highest and best in Europe. These measures preserve jobs, enables the liquidity of the economy, and there is no reduction in poverty. So, we have a paradox that, despite the global economic crisis, we have the best result in the economy, or the slightest drop in GDP. As far as the health system is concerned, doctors as heroes of that health system have shown all vitality and endurance, no single citizen of the Republic of Serbia who has suffered from coronary disease and who needed hospital treatment for this has been denied, has had a bed, doctors have had equipment, have had protective means, has not happened as in some countries in the West that patients of older age do not receive or that patients lie on the floor. What I must also point out and as far as employment is concerned, never before Alexander Vukic the best students of medical school were employed or given any advantage to those students, they were at the time of Dragan Djilas, Jeremic, Tadic, running from Serbia with their heads, because they could not find bread here, and today the best students of the medical school are working today. Last year 9,000 workers were admitted to the health system, among them 1,000 of the best students, with an average score of 9 and 10. Have the best economic college students ever been admitted and employed at the National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance? Never before, because Dragan Gilas, Boris Tadic, Jeremic, young people, especially those with best knowledge and skill, were not interested. It's possible today. The finance ministry employs young economists with a high average rating and also at the National Bank of Serbia. Social policy and social protection are upgrades to economic policy. Why do I say upgrades? Without a strong economy, there is no adequate social policy or adequate social protection, so I will now mention and speak about factories. Only Alexander Vukic opened 230 factories in Serbia. They employ over 300,000 people. By 2012, these yellow robbers and tycoons Đilas, Tadic, Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, robbed everyone, 400,000 workers left on the street, and that's not only 400,000 workers, that's three times four, if they count their family members. They destroyed everything, the entire industry, what generations have created for decades, they've destroyed 12 years of government. Fortunately, the Supreme Judge of all of us, which are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have recognized this and sent them into the political past in 2012. I must say, during 2020, no foreign investor has given up investing in Serbia. Why? Because Serbia is a stable country, because the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic leads the country on the basis of peace, on the basis of security, on the basis of security, on the basis of economic progress and development. I must point out that in November 2020, the biggest Japanese tire manufacturer, Tojo Tyres, came to India to invest 382m euros and employ about 600 workers. Workers will produce five to 10 million tyres on an annual basis. These tires will be exported to several world markets, to several continents, right from Serbia. I must point out that Indjia is one of the municipalities where the unemployment average is below five, and by opening the factory "Tojo Tyres" or other factories that will come to Indjia, there will certainly be a lack of labour. Also, I must point out that in Novi Sad, Alexander Vukic himself brought seven factories. Also, I have to point out that after India, Japanese investment came to Novi Sad. This is also very important, because it is a Japanese company that will produce motors for electric vehicles, but this factory is also important, not only from the employment aspect of 480 people, but also from the research and development aspect. They will launch a development and research centre, they signed an agreement on co-operation with the Technical Faculty in Novi Sad, and the Technical Faculty of Novi Sad will later sign an agreement with the University of Kyoto, which means that Japanese students will be able to come to Serbia, but also our students, engineers, machine engineers and electric engineers, to co-operate and find employment in this company. Also, I must point out that Swiss companies have come to Novi Sad, that a South Korean firm has come to Smederjevska Palanka. Otherwise, there was no street lighting in Smederjevska Palanca while the yellow tycoon company ruled. It is a factory that will employ about 700 workers and will have great importance, as young people will remain and will not leave their environments. Also, I must point out that thanks to the steel friendship of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and the President of the People's Republic of China Si Gjiping, we saved Železer Smederev from destruction. She's been camped for over a decade, and 5,000 workers have kept their jobs. Of course, Chinese investors are always welcome in our country. There's a Chinese investor in Bora. Where it's hardest, the Chinese prove to be our country's true and sincere friends. I must stress that all the measures the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken, and in order to improve the material status of citizens and businesses due to the pandemic that has affected the whole world, I must first point out that every citizen in this year will be paid twice at 30 euros, that this programme now includes unemployed persons and that the unemployed persons on these 60 euros will also receive an additional 60 euros, that the unemployed people in KIM will get 200 euros, that citizens in AP KIM territory, but also all children, will receive 100 euros in financial support. Pensioners will receive additional support, along with these 60 euros that goes to every citizen, to receive an additional 50 euros. By the way, I have to point out that the 30-euro aid payment has just started with pensioners, May 6th, and May 7th, those who are the most vulnerable, these are the beneficiaries of financial welfare, as well as those who are in the institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions. The eight billion-euro state of Serbia, the government, the president of the Republic, gave support to citizens and businesses, in order to preserve each job, to preserve every business entity and to ensure that Serbia moves forward, as a winner, a winner in economic growth, a winner in health care and health security, a winner in the field of military and arms, a winner in the salaries and pensions of its citizens, a winner in all segments of society, in order to achieve the "Serbia 2025" plan, which is that the average salary is 900 euros and the average pension of 440 euros in 2025. I would also point out the great importance of the Museum of Genocide Victims, which was founded in 1992, means at a time when they ruled a completely different socio-economic political relationship, to change and supplement themselves to actually refer to the change of seat, but I need to point out its great importance, precisely because of the culture of memory of all victims. First of all, in the largest death camp, it is in Jasenovac, where Serbs, Jews and Roma died, but also other anti-fascists. Serbia has always been a free country, Serbia has always been on the side of anti-fascism, Serbia has not told Hitler that, as some countries in the neighbourhood, Serbia has told Hitler no. Serbia has paid a huge price in all wars that have otherwise been liberating, because our citizens have defended their lives, defended their home threshold, defended their country. It should serve every nation honor and pride, and no shame whatsoever. Dragan Djilas, Jeremic, Tadic, they kept quiet about all these crimes. Why did they keep quiet? Are those Serbs who were killed in Jasenovac, the 360,000 who were killed in the most terrible way in Lower Gradina? Were all those kids from the cradle, all those pregnant women with kids, all those kids in their mother's womb, guilty when they were dead? No one ever talked about this before Alexander Wolfie. Aleksandar Vukic is the first to talk about all the victims and talk, of course, about the Jasenovac camp, about the killing of men, the slaughter of our people, about the Petrovac road, about the slaughtered children, about the taken-out eyes of the old men, about the beating of children on bayonets, about the beating of children into rooms three with three children starved one over the other, in which Ustasha criminals came, and those children who were not dead were trampling their feet to exhale. It's an unprecedented crime in the NDH area. During World War II, there was the only camp for children within Nazi Germany. Even the Nazi generals feared the bestiality and manner of torture and worship made by Ustasha executioners over our people. Of course, everyone kept quiet about it, nobody talked about it, and the persecution happened. When, in 1995, in action "Storm" the Croats expelled 250,000 Serbian landscapes. Some of them, women, children, old people along the way, killed. The Petrovica Road, described by Branko Ćopic of World War II, was repeated on 7 August 1995, when Ustasha bombers bombed a column of refugees among whom children were again six to 13 years old with small bandages in their hands and with another hand given to their mother. Apart from this, I would like to say that no one before the President of the Republic has provided financial assistance, namely this Government and the President of the Republic, but on his initiative to film the film "Dara from Jasenovac". An earthquake witness to the events of our people, our civilians in that infamous death camp. Maybe no one better than Gaga Antonijevic said that. He didn't say what he said about our president, Alexander Vukic. Those before him may not or may not have dared, Alexander Wolfich could and could. Yes, Alexander Vukic is a statesman, Aleksandar Vukic is a patriot, Alexander Vukic does not equalize executions and sacrifices, Alexander Vukic leads a policy of peace and reconciliation, but never forgets all those crimes that have happened to our people. That's what our children have to learn about. Therefore, it is entirely justified that the textbooks of Serbian language, textbooks of history and geography be textbooks in which these topics will, of course, be discussed. Did Borko Stefanovic, Dragan Djilas, Tadic remember our heroes, our defenders, Kosar, and they were 108, when in 1999 78 days our country was bombed by the world's 19 most powerful forces. Of course, they didn't think of those heroes, 108, average year 21 who chose between life and death for their homeland. These heroes from Koshar chose this second one, they chose death for their homeland, knowing that in such a way they would go to eternity, but in eternity they left only when President Aleksandar Vukic came to the head of the country, who, with his politics, did not forget any hero who honestly and honestly defended his country. And the heroes from Koshar are, Bulevar in Belgrade was named after heroes from Koshar. Did Dragan Djilas, Borko Stefanovic, Tadic think of the exiled Serbs on 17 March 2004 and have any reactions? There was no reaction to that terrible pogrom. In the voting day for all proposed laws, the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – will vote for our children because they are in the interest of the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6353	Thank you. Thank you to all the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. On the list of those declared for the word, we pass after the break when the First Messenger Tandir will speak. Now I'm setting a break and I'll see you at 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We're going to apply for the word of the MPs. Samir Tandir, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6355	Dear President of the National Assembly, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, I would like to begin by congratulating all Bosniaks and Bosniaks on 11 May, national holiday National Flag Day, with a desire to spend today's holidays with their neighbours and friends in health and happiness. Since 2012, with our partners from the SNS, we have been working on achieving minority rights in the Republic of Serbia, and what we must admit is that by 2012, the situation has not been a bit good. We have had an open aggression against the Islamic community, we have had the challenge of the results of the then government election for the national council of the Bosniak people and the imposition of Bosniak representatives and the end of the electoral will and all these years we have been permanently working to correct these injustices and to correct their status. The desire of all minority communities, namely our Bosniak people, the wish of all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia, is to make our country, the state of Serbia the best place to live. I think this Parliament, too, and this government is working very hard on it. But neither the position of the majority nor the position of the minority is so good that it couldn't be even better, so the citizens chose us, among other things, because we are adopting this current set of laws and we are committed to making our country a fundamentally democratic society. What, when we talk about the rights of national communities, I would primarily mention today the percentage representation of minority communities in state institutions and it is very important that we talk today about the Employment Act. What I want to point out, and the official data from the Statistical Office, is that the average salary in the Republic of Serbia was 62.280 dinars in the first quarter of this year, the average salary in Novi Pazar is 46,684 dinars, in Tutina 48,039 dinars and in Prepolje 42,000 dinars. So the Sandzak municipalities are quite lagging behind the republican average and what is the obligation of all of us is to do what is in our power to bring at least one big side of investment into Sandzak's space, because the moment we economically fix the situation, I think we're going to stop that demographic image that's pretty bad. People, especially young people are moving out. What I want, when it comes to rails, is that I'm not happy with the way that if the train is late, you guarantee by returning all the money, the money for the ticket. What we see is and should be welcomed when it comes to the Ministry of Infrastructure, that we have the reconstruction and reconstruction of our railways, that we have in the announcement of the rapid railway to Novi Sad, to Budapest, to Nis, and that's something that's good. What is the experience of a business community in Europe is that trains are increasingly used, fast IC trains, and less road traffic is used and less air traffic is used. It's really a lot for a businessman to go to an airport that's out of town, to spend an hour in the controls, through the ghettos. There's a growing use of rail traffic, and I think that's the chance we need to take advantage of it. But by guaranteeing passengers, primarily the business community only by restoring the price of the train ticket if the train is late, it's not a guarantee. As far as our parliamentary group is concerned, in the voting day we will vote on all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6356	Thank you. The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6357	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, we have several important laws today, but I will look back at the Law on the sealing of state and other bodies prepared by the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of establishing a qualified electronic seal for state and other bodies. A unique Serbia believes that the law is prepared to increase the efficiency of public administration, one of which is the government's priority, which is also Ana Brnabic, the prime minister of the government cited in his exhibition in October 2020 when the government was formed. The government's goal, as well as its previous successful transformation of public administration, is to develop an economic and transparent public administration. A unique Serbia agrees fully with this and we were able to see exactly in this period behind us, during the pandemic, how important it is to have an efficient public administration, i.e. that electronic data, the possibility of establishing and exchanging electronic data between the authorities of the administration is something that proved to be good in the previous period and the digitalisation itself on which the Republic of Serbia has worked a lot in recent years. Here we have, specifically and now these three thousand dinars that are given to citizens who want to be vaccinated, as a kind of motivation to vaccinate, all in order to get to collective immunity as soon as possible to open all branches of the economy and to be able to return to normal life as soon as possible. I think each of us is eager for this normal life and to continue to live normally without any barriers or limitations. This bill will also regulate the purposes, content, appearance and use of a qualified electronic seal, when, in the conduct of operations from its work, the state and other bodies exchange documents prepared or created in the work of these bodies by electronic means, the electronic administration is one of the main drivers of improving the quality, efficiency and economy of the public administration, so that the proposed changes are achieved by one of the reform priorities, as I said, and that is the digitisation of the state administration. One of the goals of digitisation is to give administration employees tools to do their job faster and better. Except that officials will do their job faster and better, and citizens will be equal in the exercise of their rights, exactly what I just said, because they will be allowed electronic delivery of acts stemming from the work of state and other bodies. This bill does not remove the seal in the form of prints, the seal in the dry print and the seal wax that we are all used to, because all these stamps in the conduct of various bodies and businesses have a legitimate application in some future times. In order to develop the full and functional e-Government, legal preconditions have been established by the adoption of the Law on Electronic Administration and the Electronic Document Act. It is all something that we adopted in the previous period right in the Assembly, so that the adoption of this law is done to bring the existing Law on the sealing of state and other bodies into line with these regulations. The bill provides for two forms of seal – a seal in the form of a print used on a paper document and a stamp in electronic form when joining an electronic document. The procedure for obtaining consent to the content and appearance of the seal by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is the same, regardless of the form of the seal. In particular, it is envisaged that the process of granting consent to the content and appearance of the seals is carried out through the electronic administration on the e-Government portal, which will be fully switched to electronic administration in view of this procedure, by applying the stamp in form of the print provided for on 1 January 2022, because of the need for state authorities and other public authorities and other public authorities to provide technical conditions which will allow the submission of requests for consent to the seal content and the appearance of the seal in this form by electronic means. Otherwise, by preparing myself for this law, I have observed that the provisions of the bill delete the powers of the State and other bodies relating to the Ministry of the Interior, for the reasons that registered entrepreneurs can carry out all acts which are not legally prohibited, or that they can make stamps under the orders of the State and other bodies only if the departments are responsible for the tasks of the administration or the competent authorities of the Autonomous Province have given consent to the content and appearance of the seals, it is also envisaged to sanction the anti-law behaviour of the responsible persons, i.e. those responsible for making the seals that have done so without the consent of the competent authorities. It should be kept in mind when we talk about this law, and a large number of authorities that will be able to use a qualified electronic seal in the future and that perhaps now they can't see all the possibilities of their use. I'll give you some examples. For example, units of local self-government, deciding on the requirements of citizens or other bodies, without making paper documents, will be able to make decisions and deliver them by electronic means, then the administration authorities in the formation of ministries, e.g. As the Agency for Agricultural Payments, when deciding, for example, on the allocation of various incentives in agriculture, will also be able to produce and deliver its decisions by electronic means, then social protection institutions that decide on the rights of citizens in this area will be able to deliver their decisions to citizens by electronic means, without using paper documents, thereby shortening procedures and saving time and citizens, as well as officials. There are over 10,000 bodies in our system to use a qualified electronic seal. The ministry took care of the rights of national minorities, too, and I don't know if today the minister mentioned it in her presentation, so she predicted that the text of a qualified electronic seal should be printed in both the language and the letter of the national minorities. It also provides for a fairly short deadline for law enforcement, 30 days from the date of entry into force, so that the authorities can obtain a qualified electronic seal and start using an electronic document. I hope that in the next year or two years, we will be able to measure the economic effect of introducing this form of seal, by having human capacity rationalised in certain jobs and being rerouted to other jobs. Economic effects could be reflected in the reduction of contractors in certain jobs, and an increase in jobs where there is a need to engage more people. This would allow the redistribution of personnel in the bodies covered by the application of this law. Since I no longer have time, unfortunately, counterpart Gorica will talk about other laws, I would like to say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6358	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Daniel Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6359	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, Vice-President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, among other things, we have before us a bill on amendments to the Law on transport contracts in railway transport. The proposal is very important for the functioning of passenger and freight rail traffic in the Republic of Serbia. For the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, the debate on this bill is of particular importance because, as we have heard from the Honorable President of the Committee on European Integration, the bill carries out further harmonisation with the legal assets of the European Union by Regulation on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail transport, in the area of passenger rights. This applies primarily to the conditions and rules relating to the liability of the carrier in the delay of trains, the conditions of partial or complete vomiting, i.e. the price of the ticket in case of train delays, as well as the rights of persons with disabilities using rail transport services. The draft law will have a direct impact on participants in the rail market, i.e. railway undertakings and rail service users, i.e. passengers and transport users whose position will be improved, taking into account the provisions on the refund of the price of the ticket in the event of train delays or the obligation of the carrier to provide alternative transport. With the efficiency of the railway undertaking and the quality of the service it provides, for example, the purchase of modern vehicles and the improvement of railway infrastructure, which is a basic prerequisite for the quality of rail service, it can certainly be expected to increase the number of passengers and other quality indicators. We believe that the period of application guarantees a sufficient period of time for financial consolidation, increasing business efficiency and completing a certain part of infrastructure projects that will ensure a sufficient level of quality of rail transport. The work on modernising railway infrastructure is essential in general. In fact, the current situation is such that the average number of passengers in the trains of the carrier "Serbia train" a.d., for example, in 2018 was 65, the total number of completed train departures of 60,093, cancelled 4.309, while the percentage of late trains was 19.7%. The draft law guarantees equal access to services by persons with disabilities on the train, as well as the obligation of the carrier to assist these persons when entering and leaving the train. In addition, special attention will be paid to providing information to persons with special needs and persons with reduced mobility regarding the availability of rail services, the conditions of access to railways and their equipment. The provision of these conditions constitutes an additional obligation for carriers. The SVM Group welcomes this bill and we are pleased to be able to witness the comprehensive modernisation of rail transport and infrastructure, as well as that increasing the quality of rail transport will lead to the transition of passengers from other modes of traffic, above all, I mean the transport of cars, buses, etc. which certainly leads to a positive impact on the environment, given that rail is an environmentally favourable mode of transport. Let me look back on some of our extremely important rail infrastructure projects in the follow-up to my presentation. I must stress that on our great pleasure the work is under way, on the fast track of Belgrade – Budapest, which on certain shares, as we know, will allow for a speed of as much as 200km per hour. We believe that this railway is of strategic importance in connecting Hungary and Serbia in economic but also in any other sense. It consists of three shares in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the first part of Belgrade is the centre – Stara Paza 34.5 kilometers, the second part is Stara Paza – Novi Sad 40.4 kilometers and the third part is Novi Sad – Subotica, i.e. the state border with Hungary 108.1 kilometers. A contract was signed on the purchase of three fast trains with Switzerland's Stadler company, which will allow the journey from Belgrade to Novi Now to last only 25 minutes from the end of the stock to Sudotica and the state border, the trains will address the entire length of the newly built high-speed railway from Belgrade to Saturday. As for the modernisation of the Subotica-Segedin railway, I would like to point out in particular the importance of this section for citizens whom we and SVM represent here in the National Assembly. This share is of paramount importance, especially for citizens from the north of Vojvodina and has great importance for those who work or study, for example, in Segedin or the surrounding area, and live in the Republic of Serbia. This reconstruction and modernisation is also extremely important because of the main project, the rapid railway of Belgrade – Budapest, because it is this section of the Horgos cross-border crossing that will relieve traffic during the work on the new fast track section, which will go across the Kelebija border crossing. The benefits will of course have the whole region, the reconstruction and modernisation project of the railways will carry with it the reconstruction and modernisation of the entire railway infrastructure, including the railway station itself, which will in any case contribute to the economic progress of the region along the entire section. The deadline for completion of the work is the summer of 2022, and since the opening of tenders for a strategic partner has shown that only one bidder can offer to meet all the criteria and that the ministry is indeed doing everything possible to make the procedures simplified and accelerated, I believe that all works will be completed within the specified deadlines. And, to sum up, the MPs and the SVM parliamentary groups will support this bill in the voting day, as well as other proposals on the agenda of the session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6360	Thank you. People's emissary of Smile Tishma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6361	Dear Presidency and President of this House, Mr Dacic, honourable MPs, I welcome those present for some other reasons as representatives of their organisations, business organisations and so on, and I would like to and let me, as the oldest MEP, call upon the National Assembly and founder of the Jasenovac Camping Association, to be the first to congratulate you on today, directly on the two great holidays of the Serbian state. First, the Day of Victory over Fascism, May 9th and the second Day of Europe which may not be so important and significant to us, but in the order of events, we mention it with gratitude for what they did positively to our country. Allow me to remind you that my initiative was founded by the Jasenovac Association, prepared a motion for a resolution on the Ustasha genocide of NDH against Serbs, Jews and Roma and handed over to the office of the National Assembly of Serbia with a request and a request from 23 April 2021 about the eighty years since the execution of the NDH genocide in World War II. In addition to saying that our brothers Jews who were killed during World War II, as well as Serbs, did so much earlier and many of their questions and state and personal people, far better versatile and historically neater, arranged unlike us. The Serbs who raised the uprising in 1941, fought with honor and dignity against fascism, built and reached the present-day state of Serbia. Before that, there was a lot of what-but we were learning something in history, so we're going to add it ourselves. We are compared to the genocide committed, as an association, I said for a little while that I was the driver and founder of the Association of Surviving Prisoners of the Jasenovo Camps. We have been going for a long time and trying to do something to mark the lasting events that occurred from 1941 to 1945, that is, in World War II compared to the Serbian people, a massacre was committed. The independent state of Croatia disappeared on 10 April, and already the Ustashas with lists went through villages, separated people, hosts of Serb families and closed down, including my family and my father, among 18 villagers from my village, not far from Bjelovar, 12km away. As you know, it's in western Slavonia. We've endured all of it, the rest of it alive, passed through several camps. The first arrest was a family, after father in 1941 in June, going to Bjelovar. One part of those arrested and exiled Serbs to Bjelovar, in June 1941, was carried out to the brothers of Serbia, i.e. brotherly Serbia, Mr Nedic, who received one part of the Serb people, and the other part remained in the camp Bjelovar, returned to the houses before the New Year 1942, i.e. in front of the New Year in an empty, burning, naked house, without food, without cattle, without anything. We survived that winter. My family, my mother and us four children, three girls and one boy. The smallest sister had an underage year and a half, we survived that winter with help, and I must say the brothers, the neighbour of the Croats, who brought each and every one to stay alive. However, the Ustasha state, Ante Pavelic and the Kamarale of Croatia, the destroyers of the Serb people did not settle for the persecution of the Serb people of one part for Serbia, but in the next 1942, the rest of June too, and we who were returned in December 1941 were now back in the same place and in 1942. We are separated from parents, who were with parents, and few fathers were among families, some, usually served military service at Ante Pavelic or fled to the woods like my uncle and one of my uncles, grandparents, mothers and children. That's where they classified us by sending young ladies, young women, young mothers, to Germany, and the children to the camps. In 1942, with my two sisters and brother, I visited five camps and reached Jastreborski. They, the NDH, had the prospect of doing what she did and how she treated the Serbian people during 1941 and 1942, that a part of those Serbs who had already cataclysed in 1941 and 1942, that what they had scattered through the camps, tried to cataclysm, but did not follow their hand. Those who were expelled for Germany came back after their release, and we are part of the children, the four of us children, and many children. They say there was about 11,000 of us in Sisak for a while, it's just a fraction of the exiled people from western Croatia. We continued home-schooling with the help of our Socialist country, or the new state of Yugoslavia, completed schools designated, which, trade, higher schools, universities, etc., got jobs and started work. Fate was hard for us to do much more, but we must not forget, and we must fight, as long as it is possible to continue the story and the search for truth and history. We also agreed that on April 28th, it would be marked as genocide day. It's the day the NDH first started, that new government and Ustasha butchers and the first village where 37 people were slaughtered is not far from the New Village, 11 kilometers from the village of Gudovac. Some fled back into the woods, because of those who fled into the woods and did not flee, they later created units of the People’s Liberation Army. That was the first slaughter. They continued with those generations. All 35 villages under Papuk, so-called Western Slavonia each has a mass grave of three has two each. My village has two mass graves, the hill village has one and several victims on the street to those tombs, that is, where the slaughter was committed, so today these villages are tiny empty, little alive or some grandmothers and blankets, and some of the younger ones return to visit the old ones and visit the graves. So, Croatia's joy to be inhabited by the slaughterers, not to say which parts, from which parts of the former Yugoslavia, might be misunderstood, but among other things, it was known that we contacted the neighbours. For example, the neighbour of the Croats behind my house, and my house was burned down, we couldn't go back to our house in 1941 when they brought us back from Bjelovar, was well-intentioned, honorable and honest Croatian, but there were few of them. Therefore, we need to be very rational and very reasonable in assessing the whole problem of these issues and all the problems in this matter. The resolution, we expected, which was proposed in connection with the genocide committed against Serbian, Jewish, Roma people, we delivered to the competent ministry, we did it, not the association, but we from the association with experts, with the great help of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is a group of people very honorable and honest, we worked together with them. I have to say that this little thing of mine, even though I'm retired now, you're having a hard time on these jobs, I'm tired of it all, and it wasn't just my job in life and in the past, I've worked in a lot of other people's actions. I find it strange that it has not been put in place, and we have tried to put it on the agenda of the Assembly of this session, so please, since there is a Mr. President of the National Assembly of Serbia, to take all measures to put this resolution on the agenda of the National Assembly of Serbia, and to adopt it in form and in the way it is proposed. I wouldn't, because we talked a lot today, and some of the others before me, there's a lot of reason to speed up some of the things in calling on the content of the committed genocide over the Serbian, Jewish and Roma people. We've missed a lot of time, to repeat, unlike the fallen people of the Jews, who perfectly well arranged for their people, and long ago over a dozen and a change of years. We contact, we see each other, we hear from each other, we see each other at some gatherings, etc., and the state of Serbia, well it wasn't the whole time of the state of Serbia, it was the great Yugoslavia, it did a little bit, although there were movements then, because the association I founded was still this great Yugoslavia and it went straight into action. A little has been done on these issues so far. I hope and expect that our suggestions and suggestions, as regards the survivors of the Jasenovian camps in Western Slavonia, will be seen the light of the day, that the resolution will be put on the agenda, this home, and that a valid decision on its fate will be made within the meaning of the proposal. I'd be done with this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6362	Thank you, Mother Smile. I don't know if it was in the past, but Smilja Tishma's MP chaired as the oldest MP at the beginning of our mandate, and that's probably, at least as far as I can remember, for the first time, that some victim, or camper from Jasenovac, was here in this place and I think it's one not only political satisfaction, but also an indicator of how many states Serbia wants to tell the whole truth about it and never forget it. The theme Smilja spoke of was, at that time we had several discussions with representatives of various associations headed by the association that she formed the Association of Campers and Children of Campers Jasenovac and of course now all gathered together around SUBNOR. They have proposed a certain text of the resolution, since they are not authorized by the proposings, and since the topic is of great importance for the state of Serbia and the Serb people in general, and of course the consensus, and such decisions are very important, there are consultations in progress and I am sure of one thing, which is that we will not remain unresponsive to this initiative. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6363	Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to say thank you to Mrs. Smiley Tishma for this earthquake witness, for your speech today. I also explained at the beginning of my presentation how important it is to establish a museum whose work is dedicated to preserving the memory of the crimes that the Serbian people have survived and experienced throughout Yugoslavia and how this topic actually exceeds the frameworks of these mere changes and complements that are more technical nature, legal nature or financial, than this is one topic that is important for Serbia, for the Serbian people, as a people who have always been through their history on the side of the winners, and on the other hand, it has been included in a group of people who have suffered the most in all wars, especially in the First and Second World War, and on the third hand, constantly denied our victory and this great sacrifice that we have given in human lives. Thank you for this speech and for this testimony precisely because of the last events that we had in connection with the truly shaken film "Dar from Jasenovac", which in the last ten years was the first film dedicated to the camp, the children's camp, the unique camp that existed at all during World War II on the territory of the whole world, which was a children's camp and was right on the territory of the Independent State of Croatia. Remember what was said and happened when the film "Dara from Jasenovac" became one of the candidates for prestigious film awards such as Oscar, was also nominated in another category of film awards, as much as they slowed us down, how much they slowed down the events of the historic camp in Jasenovac and what hurt us the most, hurt everyone, and here you heard the witnesses of all these events, Mrs. Smilju Tishma, that it was an ordinary Serbian political propaganda. I would like you who, several months ago, were thus assessing the testimony from the film "The Gift of Jasenovac" to sit here with us in Parliament today or to watch and listen to what Smilja Tishma had to say, to hear how they could respond to a witness and a surviving child, at that time a child from Jasenovac, how her testimony can be regarded as part of her life, what really happened, or that it is an insult to say that it is a Serbian propaganda. After all, whatever we are as members of the majority people in this country to tell about our injuries, someone is always trying to teach us history lessons, hit us over the head and share our patches and make us keep quiet. If we want to survive as a people we have to guard our history, remind young generations every day and teach them what has happened to us throughout history just to survive, to live on and not to let such a tragedy ever happen to us. You, Mrs. Smiljo, have delivered this time not a political speech but exactly the hour of history that is missing in our textbooks, we should not forget that we are all together or most of us, if not these young people lived in a period of communist Yugoslavia, where the Communist Party of Yugoslavia did not allow members of the Serb people to speak openly in public about what was happening to them. The times are far behind us, and thanks to both the President of the State and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and to Parliament, we now have a different relationship to the parts of our history. I am convinced that the resolution that you and your association comrades have proposed here to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia is carefully considered. It's hard to run a country. It's hard to make a good decision that won't have much repercussion in our country, because I say, whatever we do, we get some blow to the head, we are warned, but I am convinced that we will find a way in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia as some other people, taught by their example to bring a resolution on genocide committed against Serbs, Jews and Roma in World War II. It is important that we begin to mark important dates from our history, to do so together with Republika Srpska, with a part of our people living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Republika Srpska, but there are always representatives of our Serb people living in the Republic of Croatia, the Serb people living in Montenegro, representatives from Macedonia, and that they have torn pieces of history that bring us together and do not allow us to forget that we are all members of a perilous people. We're starting museums for that. Today we are also talking about the agenda point relating to the amendments and additions to the Museum dedicated to the victims of genocide, it is established, and now it is during the period of status of the constitution of administrative and supervisory committees as a previous issue of the establishment of the Museum "Old Fair", a camp located in the territory of Belgrade, in which Serbs, Jews and Roma were imprisoned and killed. It's important that we start making movies again and talk openly about the difficult topics of history for our people. It's important to teach other nations that are in this way because they've been torn out of oblivion and won't let the parts of our history be forgotten, we're doing the same thing so that we as we are small and constantly threatened, will survive. The issue of the resolution is certainly a political issue, but I am convinced that there will be a way to bring such an important act to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much again for your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6364	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Milenko Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6365	Dear Mr. President of the Assembly, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, the esteemed colleague and fellow Members, I think we are in a bit of a hurry with this notion of memory culture, because in order to remember something, we should first know it. I think we should go through one learning process first before we get to the memory, because it's some logical trail of events. Because we don't know many things, many things don't interest us, many things didn't let us remember and teach them, and it's impossible to mark our places of death of Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia, because they were killed and slaughtered from the doorstep to the Jasenovac mentioned. If we are already talking about some family tragedies or experiences, next to Bihac or on the very edge of Bihać, there is a place called Garavica, which is rarely heard of, where 12,000 Serbs were killed. So many Serbs today don't know where 12,000 Serbs were killed. In 1949, citizens made a mark of the people who died there, and at that time in 1949, more were injured underground than the citizens of Bihac at that time. And then at 45 years of that event, in 1986, he set one like the park's memorial, he has several monuments, and now we come to this point that we don't know anything and what the Deputy Prime Minister was talking about for a moment. And then Hakia Pozderac came, the cousin of Grandad's uncle, Vuk Jeremic, who asked to be said there that Serbs, Croats and Muslims were killed, and then a journalist from Velika Kladude told him that they had been killed exclusively by Serbs, and then had to renamed not to have killed Serbs, but to have suffered patriots. You know, my great-grandfather Mile Santakovic didn't die as a patriot, not as a Chetnik, not as a partisan. He had no rifle in his hand, when they stood him up, and brought the Ustashas to slaughter. He had enough in his hand, he was sowing flour at that moment, and he was with his daughter Stack, my grandmother, who told me all this later, like all the other grandkids. That's why we need this museum, Mrs Gojkovic, to no longer teach us history, but to teach it where it teaches the whole world, to learn that the whole 20th century is the loss of the Serbian people, not to forget that Serbs were killed because Serbs and in Arad during World War I, that Serbs were killed because Serbs in Machvi during World War I, that Serbs were killed because Serbs in southern Serbia were by Bulgarian occupiers during World War I, and then all of this happened to us again from the same criminals and in World War II. It was a little short to do it again, because the bones of Serbs in Herzegovic caves, in Jasenovac, in Gravice, in Jadovna were the cornerstones of something that sounded nice, which was called brotherhood and unity, and against which I generally have nothing. The only problem is that it was brotherhood and unity that meant that we could be brothers and united only if the Serbs were not Serbs, and if the Serbs were weak, and if the Serbs couldn't say they were killed, clans, tired in every way possible. Today is the result, speaking of this Bihac, and to conclude that, when the list is finished, I don't know how many Serb heads will be there. And as they managed to finish in Croatia in 1995 what they started in Machva in 1914, 1915 more precisely, so they will also say that they were about to finish what they started in 1941. To us, too, this topic, the theme of memory culture, and before that, as I said, the learning obligation, represents a stone in the mosaic that began carefully, wisely, persistently and anxiously to build President Vukic, which is called a return, it is called the return of national dignity. We were taught that only Serbia that has no national dignity and only Serbs who do not have national dignity are good Serbs. And that's what they're telling us today, that's exactly what they're telling us from Croatia. If you have a president of the state who would change all the national interests of Severina's autograph and who loves most when he is in a meeting with representatives of the Croatian state to say that he wakes up next to Severina, when you have a president of the state who says he dreams of a lighthouse on the Adriatic, when you have a president who apologizes for everything and everything and what he is and what is not a Serbian mistake, then that president of Serbia is good, desirable, acceptable, etc. If you have a president of Serbia who insists on national dignity, this Serbian president is arrogant, arrogant or whatever they call him. No, it's not Alexander Wolf, it's not arrogant, it's not arrogant. Aleksandar Vukic is a Serb and is not ashamed of being a Serb. It's a huge difference compared to those who were before him. On the other hand, we must not forget that Serbs were not killed because Serbs are only in the former Yugoslavia's space. I mentioned Arad, but believe it or not, and above the polar circle, and here on May 6th was an anniversary marked in the Kikindi team, above the polar circle you have Serbian graves, Serbs from Kikinda, Serbs from Melenac, Serbs from Nis, Serbs from Gornji Milanovac, Serbs brought from all sides, which were driven to Norway, to build roads there for the needs of Nazi Germany. A very small number has returned. You have a Serbian and Soviet cemetery above the polar circle. Then a man really wonders if there's a corner on this country where the Serbs didn't get hurt because they were Serbs? And where do we get the right to keep our mouths shut about it? So the museum as a museum must be a place where future generations will learn what every member of this people must know, just as every member of the Jewish people knows about the Holocaust and the death of Jews. That's where I come to what matters today. We do not record our loss in World War I or in World War II and during NATO aggression, which we called NATO intervention by euphemism, so that we do not insult those who beat us, who killed us, who bombed us, who today are killing us with cluster bombs and remains of cluster bombs, so we do not do it to get revenge, to build a bad feeling based on which some future generations will seek the opportunity to take revenge. We do it because we are obliged to remember our countrymen who have been killed because they were only Serbs and nothing more than that, and either because they cut their necks with the Serb, or because they were pushed under the frozen Danube, they were killed anyway because they were Serbs and we have to remember that. We must not forget that if we want to be Serbs in the future. But the policy that the president is leading today is a policy that will never put us in a position to decide which side we'll be on when history is at stake. I don't think the Serbs were on the side of the winner. Serbs were on the right side even when many of those winners were not on that side. And some, of course, by deciding again by those who ruled Serbia after 1945 on the side of just those who killed Serbs, they magically transferred them to the victory ranks, which they had in Dombran, which were from Ustasha uniforms. Again, an anecdote that is true, which just happened in those villages around Bihac. A partisan came to the house of the mother whom he had taken to the Garavica, who had never returned, with a Partizan company, and the mother of the man asked him, "What would be wrong with mine, and said the name here with you today, and he took him away?" He put his head down and asked to be deployed to another house. That's why it's not clear to me, and to conclude, that someone today can suffer for some ideology that has prevented us from being Serbs, who absolutely forgave us on our behalf, not asking us, all of what they've done to us, from the executioner, produced new authorities to laugh at our faces and to laugh at those victims. That part really doesn't make sense to me, but what I understand is that Serbia has to be strong, it's that Serbia has to be stable, it's that Serbia has to move forward and it's that Serbia only when it's like that can keep its people from any challenges anywhere to live. That is why the president's policy, which on the one hand, refers to national dignity, absolutely gets its upgrade through strengthening Serbia, because only strong Serbia is guaranteed for Serbs wherever they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6366	Thank you. I just have to add, if you'll let me, it wouldn't be ideological. I think the ideology we need to talk about is not left or right, it's the ideology of Yugoslavism. After World War I, all of the Austrian armies moved to the army of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. Here at the entrance to the Assembly, where you pass every day, there are statues of Tomislav, the Slovenian prince, the Serbian leader and Emperor Dusan in the hall, and this is the assembly where the Serbian Parliament is sitting today. So that, I hope, is past time and, in that sense, we need to move on, not bring ideology to the left or to the right. The word is Milenko Jovanov.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6367	I wasn't talking about ideology. Like I told you, my great-grandfather's head wasn't about cocardines or five-pointers. He didn't have time to put anything on that head, because before that, maybe because he was a volunteer in World War I, and before that, because he was a Serb, they cut him by the head. Speaking of which, we had two Yugoslav resistance movements in World War II. One was communist, the other was liberal-democratic, because they were systems that existed at the time. The third was a fascist-nascist regime. The fascist-nascist regime was defeated by a coalition of liberal and communist regimes. We came to the conclusion that Yugoslavia became communist after that. Did that have any good consequences? Yes, it is. Did this lead to some people perhaps living better than they did in the time of the kingdom? Yes, it is. The only problem is that we compare the grandmothers and frogs a little bit. We need to compare life in Yugoslavia with life in other countries in the environment at the time with equal, same population, so we will see if this country has developed quickly or not quickly. What I can't accept is that today the nature of the regime is completely forgotten, that Serbs were re-infected in the regime, but in 1948 on the Golo Island, where they were beaten by the same ones who beat them and in 1941, only to replace the then "U" with a five-point star. So I just don't open it up as an ideological question, because I have a completely different attitude. Somehow I think World War II is over. The communist period is an integral part of this nation's history and this state. We don't want to, we don't want to, we can't run away, but it's time to look at it extremely objectively, not to sing songs that we celebrate what isn't for greatness, and on the other hand, we don't throw away a child with dirty water. I'm afraid that's what we did in the early 1990s. So let's put an end to the 40s and leave it to the museum that's opening up to do it. We need, and that's SNS policy, to watch not in 1945, but in 2045. So we're interested in 2045, where Serbia will be in 2045, and where it was in 1945 let historians decide, let them explain what was going on, whether it was better or what would have happened. That's what I'm talking about. He doesn't exactly match what your attitude is, but it absolutely doesn't change the fact that neither you nor I what was the result of what was happening back then can we change because we haven't invented a time machine yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6368	I have no intention of contesting your position at all. I have my position, and these very days we have marked the confirmation of this attitude, which is May 9th - Victory Day over Fascism, the release of Yugoslavia, the release of Serbia, and it is well known who did it. That's why I'm absolutely against mixing ideologies with things we're talking about today. The word is Milenko Jovanov.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6369	What is the point, that is, is that it was this ideology that forbade Serbs to marry with a crown of fame for the first freed town or a city in enslaved Europe - Loznica, which he won and freed from the German Colonel Veselin Misit because he wore a coke on his head. We could have marked it, but we didn't mark it to mark the uprising when a Serb shot at a Serb. Somehow, I think it would be much better to mark the date when we freed a town from the Germans than when Serbs, when a Serb wanted to raise the communist revolution killed two gendarmes, among other things, one who was a refugee from the same Croatia, who came to Serbia's mother because he wanted to save his head, but was welcomed by Zikica Jovanovic the Spanish. Anyway, like I said, ideology is something everyone's right to possess, to have a feeling like this or something. History will be written by historians. Today, we can divide ourselves into those who will receive the Fitzer vaccine or the Chinese vaccine or the Russian vaccine, Sputnikov. These are the divisions today. We'd best stay in those divisions. We're not Serbs, Mr. Dacic, so much so that we're divided into Chetniks and Partisans. There are no Chetniks or partisans today, except for these folklore, each other. People respect this or that army, this or that ideology, this or that family tradition, after all, and we all aim to make Serbia a leading force in the region in 2045, and when I see some in the region afraid of it, then I see that this is the most important task we have ahead of us, and the Chetniks and partisans ended up in 1945.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6370	I am absolutely with you agreeable. That's why I said there's no need to ask it as a question, because ideologicalizing this topic takes us all the further and further into these discussions, and here it doesn't matter. The Serbs were Communists and Dražini and everyone else, but they were killed. Today when it's Victory Day, it's important never to repeat the genocide of our people, and that's why I'm mentioning it. Just because we split ideologically, we didn't even celebrate the day of victory against fascism, and now we celebrate it unlike that time after 2000. The word is Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6371	Nice to meet you, National Assembly President... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6372	You have to do it again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6373	That's probably because I'm going to side with MEP Jovanov, so I'm prevented from saying it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6374	No problem. You could have said that two days ago at the May 9th celebration.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6375	I'll tell you what, I saw something else at that party. I want to thank you for at least a little reviewing your position right now, so we can agree that today we are all on the same side of Serbia and that we do not let ourselves experience what we experienced clearly in World War II, which is that someone third pushes us into civil war. Both Serbs participated in the fight against fascism. One of them decided on a five-pointer and Tito, and the others continued to defend the King and the Fatherland, because they only knew about it. Neither should be condemned, as victims are equally worthy of the freedom of the then-Yugoslavia and of Serbia's present. But I'm convinced that someone third of us, I so understand these events and part of our history, that someone third of us is very well-meaning, which is very often working with us, trying to divide us, push us into a bloody civil war. What happened afterwards, and why there was no need to talk about the deaths of the Serbian people, we know well all of us who are here in the hall and many of us, our grandfathers, our parents and we who are the generation that has affected the good part of life in the communist Yugoslavia. We can't run from it and we shouldn't run from it. It's not easy, you know, I'm a descendant of a family who's been killed since 1945 and beyond. In World War II, we were hiding from the Germans, but we had been killed since 1945, but until recently we had to keep quiet about that part of history that our grandfathers too had sacrificed their lives for the sake of Serbia's freedom. So I fully understand that it is not easy to listen to another part of Serbia now that has something to say, but I am glad that we have met on that path. I just want to tell Mr. Jovanov that there have been attempts before in Yugoslavia, in communist Yugoslavia, to say something through works of art. You are much younger, but I assume you know of the famous performance "The Dove", which has been shown for a very short time, but which has caused a simple storm in the then communist Serbia. It appeared in the Serbian National Theatre, the problem was that the director was from Belgrade, Mr. Dejan Mijac, and it caused some doubts, and the special problem was that the writer was, Serbian writer Jovan Radulovic, someone who worked in Mr. Stambolic's cabinet and was a writer of his speeches, and it was interpreted as someone from Belgrade wanted to send a performance of Dejan Mijac to a little stir up that of our duke, one-party idyll. The play was taken off with a repertoire decision, they say, of advice, but by decision, we all know, by the decision of one party because it was about the injuries, the caves from Jadovna and the tragedy of one place and the tragedy of one family and their stories, because so by hiding the piece of history who ended up in caves in Jadovna. I say, it is sad to say that this performance has been given the biggest award in the then-Slovenian festival "Alpe-Adria" as a good work of art, and we have continued as the old man to argue and to divide into Belgrade and Vojvodina Serbs, Belgrade communists and Vojvodina communists. So I'm proud that all of us together today are the descendants of these people who have given our lives, someone for the King and the Fatherland, someone for Tito and the five-pointer, but we are politically aware that there are no, hopefully, divisions between us today, and that we are all working together to not forget these bright parts of our history, to start museums, to make good movies, to write novels and not to run away from any topic today, or even these divisions in World War II. I say, it's a pleasure to meet you 30 years ago and that you and I have matured and that there are no ideological differences today, but we all work together only for the sake of Serbia and for all the citizens who live here, no matter what people they belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6376	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6377	It's just a sentence. Just as the performance you cited, so I should remember something, Stevan Sremac said, "When a Serb wants to show that he is objective, he moves on the opposite side." That's why this museum, so we can never think of being "objective" again by moving on to the opposing side, by essentially looking at how we shouldn't offend those who killed us. Remembering it and having to be part of our identity, Jasenovac must be an integral part of every drop of the blood of every Serb. It must be worn in order for us to exist in the future, just as every Jew wears in every drop of his blood, the Holocaust. So that's part of the identity. Without that, we're gone. That's why we need that museum, that there's a limit between what was and what was going to be, and that border is tight enough to hit it so that no one ever moves it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6378	Just so there's no dilemma. I wasn't talking about the ideologies left-right, I was talking about what we're avoiding saying, which is that after winning World War I, we were led by the same mistake as World War II. Both, as you say, the move against fascism in World War II was wrong because it was Yugoslav, not Serbian, and that is the problem. That's why I told you, at the entrance to the Assembly, which I'll show you when it's 85 years from the building in October, how it's opened, you've got Emperor Dusan, King Tomislav, Prince of Kocelj and Karajord. The end of the speech at the opening of the Assembly was "A South-Slovenian idea". The Croats who died in the assembly are heroes, and the Serbs and Montenegrins killed are criminals. This also resulted in the wrong policy of course after World War II. So, from that point of view, I have to say to myself that I was the first to take the Jasenovac exhibition to the UN, along with MP Smile Tishma. So much for former communists. Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6379	Before that, there was a descendant, so someone who fought in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, who fought for the free Kingdom of Yugoslavia and for the country, was me, and I opened that same exhibition here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The MPs could come and visit and see. It's just saying that you and I are thinking in the 21st century today in the same way, it just hurts me less and I'm less nervous about when someone is celebrating only one move, as you say, a liberating, communist movement led by Comrade Joseph Broz, and I have the constant impression that whenever there were two free movements in Serbia, that we are unique, that still in today's Serbia's part of the public is causing some impatience and some infidelity. That's the problem. That's the only problem, and that's what Mr. Jovanovic was talking about, and I really understood him well. When we get past that, when there's no discomfort when someone's talking about their family that wasn't in the communist movement, then we'll overcome all these obstacles and then we'll be able to talk about being proud of both moves. We were at the May 9th marking together. Thank God we are one of the few countries in Europe that still marks the 9th of May as the Day of Victory and that we do not participate in the revision of history, but I have a lot of heart when a poster was shown at the Museum of Yugoslavia, there are two posters, two warrants, two bounty heads, that was Josip Broz Tito, that was Draža Mihajlović, who represented enemies for the Germans and both heads were worth a thousand paradise marks. It speaks of the true parts of history, not what the winners wrote after 1945. I won't answer again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6380	I don't see what the difference is, the defeated must never have written history. I just want to say that I don't think it has anything to do with this subject we're talking about. The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6381	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers and Ministers, fellow MPs, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig, the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, and he is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I was selected from the list “Alexander Vukic – For Our Children” and I represent the United Peasant Party. I will now, as a descendant of one fighter, my grandfather, Willotti Miletic, who was a war participant, who was in the Sixth Litian Division, was in a special unit, an automaticist, wearing a five-pointer, I can say that with pride, but, on the other hand, I can say something else-- as a young man, I've been on the mark of May 13th on the Mount. Here, now it will be, in two days, we can go to the Straight Mountain to mark that day, when Draža Mihajlovic came there and when the movement to defend our country of Serbia was launched. And that's a date. On the other hand, I'm saying this just because one thing matters, and that's that we're here, that we have to keep our history. For me as a man, as a descendant of a fighter who lived up to a few years ago, a man who taught me everything, but I was always on the other side, thinking differently and always singing Draž's songs, Chetnic songs, but, of course, when my grandfather wasn't there. So, once again, the most important thing is reconciliation, that we never forget our people who died by Ustasha, by all those who were haters of Serbia, and that is why we have to keep our history, look ahead, watch the future, our future in 50, 100 years. That's our goal. But on the other hand, we must never forget our descendants and our people. As for other points, specifically related to the employment of people, for the period this year, 2022-2023, providing funds for 18,000 people, 19,000 and 21,000, which will be available every year, these are provided through the National Employment Service. It's a big deal to help our unemployed people. The big thing is to allocate much larger funds for the Southeast Serbia area, for areas such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, where the unemployment rate is high. We need to give these people more attention. One of the important things is building a railroad. The railway line is now being built, mostly by Nis via Svrljag towards Književci is completed, a complete reconstruction, where trains will go at a much higher speed. The Nis-Belgrade railway will be done, the Nis-Doljevac-Gytoradje-Merdara railway, which is good for you, too, President of the Assembly, you are from Žitoraj. I'm sure the trains going from Belgrade via Nis towards Merdar will go much faster. That's what we all have to support. Once again, honourable fellow Members, I, as president of the United Peasants' Party, will support all these bill proposals and will always vote in favour of these matters, because it is our future and future for our children. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6382	Thank you. The word is Zagorka Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6383	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Minister, members of the government, respected citizens, we are facing today a set of very important laws, and these legislative proposals, as well as amendments and additions to existing laws, will support the Single Serbia parliamentary group in voting day. As for the amendment and addition of the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, we from Unity Serbia consider it a positive improvement in the overall employment strategy on Serbia's territory. Although unemployment in Serbia is often said today, which is true at a historic minimum, it is certainly not negligible and it is good to talk about it. What certainly encourages us is the fact that this problem is being done, that economic activity, competitiveness, as well as social productivity at all, and that reducing unemployment is a real priority. By actively applying the provisions of this law, local self-government will also have better insight into the very problem of employment and we expect that problems will be resolved faster and more effectively. When it comes to hiring older than 45 years of age, although the prohibition of discrimination is legally prescribed on an age basis, we cannot without mentioning it as a problem that definitely exists. There are also frequent prejudices that people who are looking for work face, because the employer will be more agreeable to the person. a 30-year-old job candidate and not the 50-year-old, believing that person would be more productive, which doesn't necessarily mean at all, especially in jobs where experience is crucial. We expect that the government in the future will focus specifically on this problem, which is not small and for all measures that will lead to easier employment of older than 45 years, the government will have the support of the Single Serbia. Because, let's not forget, someone who's 45 needs to work until he's 65 years old and is half of his working age. I would also refer to amendments and additions to the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocide. That's very hard to talk about, because what to say after Mrs. Smiley Tishma? The law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocide should comply with the existing regulations in the field of culture and we believe that the time has come to give this special establishment of culture the importance it deserves. When we talk about genocide on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, we primarily think about genocide committed in the premises of the former NDH over Serbs, Jews and Roma, the fact is that today these crimes are spoken of more than ever. Why hasn't this topic occupied the public so much before? Is that a matter of ideological or political perception of the given moment? It's not that important. The most important thing is that beastly crimes committed in Jasenovac, Donjo Gradina, Jadovna, Garavica, in general throughout the NDH, are the greatest casualties of our people ever and the greatest casualties in all of this part of Europe. These victims, however, always mentioned, but for decades marginalized, reduced, evicted by various calculations, must be given the right place in collective memory, but before that we need to learn something about them, just as a colleague of Jovanov said. Here's an example. Young people go to Poland for a field trip. When going to Krakow is almost a mandatory trip to the Auschwitz Bikernau camp, which, of course, is normal and necessary because it is the site of the biggest loss ever, but have you ever heard of a trip to the Memorial Park in Jasenovac which is on three now driving from Belgrade? The answer is no. In his work so far, the Museum of Victims of Genocide collected a huge structure on the deaths in the NDH premises, organized and implemented numerous projects, scientific gatherings, and they were aimed at the fact that there was a truth about events in those areas. The truth is only one thing – to destroy one nation not only biologically, but also its culture, religion, tradition, everything that makes the identity of a nation. I would finish my presentation with a brief review which is also a struggle for the truth, and this struggle has been fought for weeks by JS President Mr Markovic. This case from the very beginning is pure politics because it is the basis of everything, lies and intrigue. We expect the outcome of this imaginary affair and we believe that the institutions of this country will do their job and that all those who have placed these naive lies will answer in accordance with the law at the most recent time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6384	I thank the People's MP, Zagorki Aleksic. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6385	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, the distinguished minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, will talk about the debate that was being held and led to the loss of the Serbian people and the genocide that was done to the Serbian people I cannot talk about, but what I want to say is that it is not good to share again, because we have paid through history great damage and a great loss of the Serbian people, that it should speak history, to say to the court and institutions, such as the opening of museums. We are bound as MPs, as representatives of the people, because of our suffering that we will never let that happen again. But I also think we have a commitment, because we are people's representatives, to answer the next question -- how will Serbs in Serbia, and especially Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs in Republika Srpska, Serbs in Montenegro, Serbs in Macedonia live for the next five, 10, 15, 50 years? We respond to that fate, we must give to the life of our people, because we have an obligation, and our leadership, the state leadership, the president of the state, the government, the Assembly is on track, and I think the results on the future of our people and our generations will be very positive and good. I've defined myself as talking about two other points of the agenda today. Today, the National Assembly has several important draft laws on the agenda, and I will talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment and Insurance in the event of unemployment and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport Contracts in Railway Traffic. The right to work is one of the most significant and complex social and economic rights and one of the fundamental rights of our legislation. Unfortunately, in reality, in the modern world, everything is not ideal. For various reasons, many people do not have the opportunity to exercise this right and it is very important that the state, in the event of unemployment, temporary or permanent care for its citizens and provides them with mandatory insurance in case of unemployment. Our legislation and our state policy have made it possible, and thanks to this, we have been able to boast of the great decline in unemployment rates in recent years. We can say that the unemployment rate of about 9% is the lowest in the last few decades. We kept that rate in the last year. Despite the global crisis, caused by the Kvid 19 pandemic, the state has ensured an improvement in the business investment environment by its measures, support for the economy, especially the most vulnerable activities and successful coordination of monetary and fiscal policy. I would like to commend, as a good measure, and the project "My First Salary", which employs about 8,500 young people, different professions and levels of education. The current structure of the unemployed according to the National Employment Service is such that more than 56% of those registered on the labour market are women, but it encourages the fact that in 2020 55% of the total number of employees are women. It is also important to point out that the trend in the growth of the number of employees at an indefinite time that began in 2015 continues until today. The largest growth in employment during the previous year was recorded in the region of Šumadija and Western Serbia, as well as in Belgrade, while the highest unemployment rate is traditionally in the south and east of Serbia. What is a daunting circumstance is a marked depopulation trend, as a characteristic of Serbia's demographic movements in the past decades. Unfortunately, the number of residents from the last census is lower by nearly 300,000, and the demographic transition has a particular impact on the reduction of the working-age population. The amendments and additions to the Employment and Insurance Act for unemployment are specified that the main document of public policies in the field of active employment policy are the employment strategy to be adopted for a period of six years and is current for the period from 2021 to 2026 and the action plan for the implementation of this strategy to be adopted for a three-year period. I would also like to commend the active employment policy measures aimed at less developed areas, such as higher employment subsidies, harder employment categories, as well as measures to encourage balanced, regional development and target investments in underdeveloped regions. I would also refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on transport contracts in railways. In Serbia today, most passengers do not represent the first source of transport, but when rail traffic was just beginning, at the end of the 19th century, the train composition was not only used for transport, it was a sort of window into the world. The foundations of Serbian railways were set in the Principality of Serbia in 1878 at the Berlin Congress, when Serbian officials pledged to build the first railway from Belgrade to Nis, and then further south to the Bulgarian border. Regular rail traffic in Serbia has been going on since 1884 to become the favourite means of transport for many, from ordinary people to high-ranking state officials in the coming century. In the second half of the 20th century, much has been invested in railways, but since the last major investment in railways it has been almost 40 years. The "railway" is therefore quite outdated, and as a result, it is a fall in interest in rail transport. Today, most of the passengers, as a reason for avoiding train travel, cite delays, too long the length of the journey, and sometimes the weariness of the infrastructure and the ageing of the wagons. The train journey again requires the modernisation of the Railways and the promotion of the Railways as a functional, cheap and safe form of traffic. It is today that Serbia is working on major modernisation and reconstruction projects for the Railways. Thus, by the end of 2021, work on the fast track of Belgrade-Stara Pazova-Novi Sad is planned to be completed at a speed of 200km per hour. From Belgrade to Novi Sad, we'll be able to make it in 30 minutes. Serbia for the first time in its history has acquired trains for 200km per hour that will traffic on the high-speed railway for Belgrade-Novi Sad-Subotica. These are the most modern European trains of modern design, comfortable, and include places to accommodate persons with reduced... Trains like this will represent a picture of modern Serbia moving forward with state-of-the-art technologies and ready to invest in the future. Serbia's Railway also started a reconstruction of the Prokuplje-Kurzumli-Medara railway on the section where last year's floods damaged and took away parts of the track. This presents a major problem for the townspeople of Gornja Toplice and Kosanica whose train was the only link to the world. By the end of August, these works are expected to be completed. New amendments and additions to this law strengthen the liability of carriers, and provide passengers with rights that are at the level of European standards. It is thus foreseen that when the train is more than an hour late, the passenger may interrupt the journey and request that all the money he has given for the ticket be returned to him. If he decides to continue the journey, the passenger can ask for a piece of the money. I believe the time is coming when we will return on the journeys of modern and fast trains that we once traveled across Europe. In the end, I want to support, on behalf of my own behalf and on behalf of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, all the laws in this search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6386	I thank the People's Messenger, Zvonimir Stevic. The word has the People's MP Sandra Jokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6387	I thank the chairman. A respected minister with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is in front of us today a set of laws that are important for all citizens of Serbia, especially for the Roma population. The first item of the agenda is the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment. The unemployed, within the meaning of this law, are persons from 15 years of life to meeting pension conditions no later than 65 years. Persons who did not start a working relationship are on unemployment records and are actively looking for a job. Law enforcement began on 1 March 2020. The aim of this regulation is that workers employed through the agency have equal rights and working relationship conditions as well as employees of employers. Users of equal working conditions refer to the duration and schedule of working hours, overtime, working vacation, daily and annual vacation. Registration of employees of the National Employment Service and submission of applications within a legally prescribed period of 30 days from the date of termination of insurance in order to achieve full scope of work. The right to cash compensation is for unemployed persons who were secured for up to 18 months before losing their jobs. Three months of fines are paid by persons who have worked from one of five years, six months with an internship of five to 15 years, nine months with an internship of 15 to 25 years and 12 months with an internship of 25 years, cash benefits for the unemployed for a period of 24 months if the unemployed is missing two years to retirement. A large number of Roma have been employed in newly opened companies, also in public utility companies, such as plumbing, cleanliness, a large number of Roma work through agency for temporary jobs, public works, and it is therefore important that they know what rights they can achieve in the event of unemployment. This year, the National Employment Service issued a public call for the following types of help in employment: Public call for unemployed Roma nationalities to grant employment subsidies in 2021, Public call for the realization of professional practice measures in 2021, Public call for employers to grant subsidies for the employment of unemployed persons in the category of employment, of which Roma are also. This is a good example of the state's concern, given the statistical data that 50% of Roma children are enrolled in primary school, 10% in high school, and 1% in college, which is devastating, but thanks to the affirmative measures and scholarship of Roma students, this percentage will increase, and thus the employment rate. As the state now helps the Roma population in all segments, so have the Roma always stood by their country. In World War II, shoulder to shoulder with Serbs and Jews were also killed by Roma, were victims of the Holocaust and the Jasenovac. The total number of victims is over 1,706,000, of which 392,775 Serbs, Jews 52,511 and Roma 10,924. These data were collected thanks to the Museum of Genocide from 1941 to 1945, and this number is far higher. For more permanent memory of genocide victims, the museum deals with the collection and processing of data on genocide, states and other authorities are obliged to provide the museum with construction on the crime they have at their disposal, which is in accordance with this law. The aim is to identify the victims of World War II with full identification, regardless of religious, ethnic and nationality. What I want to point out is that the Roma were victims of genocide, and after World War II they were often the target of assimilation, which means forced sterilization to reduce the birth rate. But I also want to say that no war has been waged under the Roman flag. Together with our fellow MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia, President Aleksandar Vukic, we will continue to fight for a more successful and better Serbia in which the Roma will have even better conditions for life, work and personal development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6388	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Sandra Jokovic. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6389	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, is difficult to talk about after the presentation of our dear colleague, Mrs Smilje Tishma, who is a living witness to the loss of Serbs, about genocide, but I will try. I'll remind you that the notion of genocide being classified into the most serious international crimes is often said to be a crime of genocide. It refers to the most extreme, most drastic and brutal crime of intentional destruction of national, ethnic and religious groups. A term of genocide was adopted at the United Nations General Assembly in 1946, after World War II. Unfortunately, the Serbian people are well-known for the word genocide. The Serbs felt it on their skin. The genocide of Serbs is the systematic persecution and extermination of Serbs by the fascist-resist regime in the Independent State of Croatia between 1941 and 1945. The genocide was carried out through brutal executions in death camps, through mass murder, deportation, ethnic cleansing and forced conversion. Serbs were killed both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in many other places that were the so-called area. Independent countries of Croatia. They were thrown into caves, rivers, they were killed at various other losins. The suffering of Serbs did not end with World War II. In the 1990s, after Yugoslavia fell apart, they were expelled from their hearths and killed. "Blash" and "Storm" are examples of Serb deaths, and then in the late 1990s NATO bombing was called "Merciful Angel". The Serbs suffered again. Then organised Serb persecution from Kosovo and Metohija. Serbs were tortured, intimidated, burned down their houses, kidnapped property, leading to more than 200,000 Serbs being evicted from their hearths. It was the 20th century for Serbs, who were on the side of allies and anti-fascists in the greatest wars. Therefore, we must not forget our history and memory of these heroes and victims who have paid their lives for being Serbs, Jews or Roma. They were killed in the most ferocious ways, with cold weapons, poisons, gasses, knives and so forth. Today, and especially in this year when it is 80 years old since the formation of the Jasenovic death camps and the first Ustasha crime against Serbs and Jews, we are all as individuals, but also as a society in general, as descendants of genocide victims, we have responsibility for the future, so that what happened never happens again and that such a loss of Serbs is never repeated. We must remind our own and international public as often as possible, he is familiar with our history, just as our National Assembly President Ivica Dacic did, when in New York as foreign minister, he opened the exhibition "Jasenovac – The Right to Remember", which was fully organised by the Foreign Ministry. The aim of this exhibition was not only to get to know the international public with the darkest chapter of World War II and the deaths of Serbian, Jewish and Roma people, but also to warn of the dangers of reviving Ustasha and fascist ideology that led to such horrors. We must not risk and allow anyone else to twist and end our historical past, because this is how they revitalise and deny fascist, genocide and criminal policies towards the entire peoples. That is why there are many historical institutions, such as archives, museums and others, which collect, process, investigate and preserve our history from oblivion. The Museum of Victims of Genocide was established by the 1992 Museum of Victims of Genocide, because the Socialists always nurtured a culture of memory and marked important historical dates, which will always be done in the future. The museum deals with collecting, processing and using data on genocide against Serbs, Jews, Roma and other peoples and national minorities. The genocide victims' museum is registered in Kragujevac, and the overall activity, apart from accounting jobs, takes place in Belgrade, which includes the work space of the museum's organisational unit. Namely, this bill requires legal harmonisation of the regulation of the Museum of Victims of Genocide with the Law on Culture, thus equating the institution with other protection institutions. The bill lays down the headquarters of the Museum of Genocide Victims in Belgrade, where it is already located and functioning and thus its registration will be carried out in the Court of Commerce in Belgrade, not as before in the Kragujevac Business Court. As I said at the beginning of my presentation, the crime of genocide is considered the most difficult international crime. What genocide separates from other international criminal acts is the existence of a genocide that is aimed at the destruction of a national, racial, religious or ethnic culture, and the responsibility for its execution does not go out of date. Therefore, we must not forget all these innocent and innocent victims and their deaths in the infamous camps of NDH and those injured by Nazis and fascists who wanted to make the world just for their so-called so-called. A higher race, and their victims were only guilty because Serbs, Orthodoxs, Roma, Jews. It is up to us and future generations to cultivate the memory and culture of memory of all of them and to keep it from being forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6390	I thank the MP Dr. Vesni Ivkovic. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6391	Thank you. I will talk about amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment because it is now necessary to achieve continuity in implementing the employment policy in line with the needs of the national labour market and to continue to comply with EU standards and the new employment strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2021 to 2026 in line with the employment action plan. Serbia has made significant progress over the past five years towards establishing macroeconomic stability and sustainable economic growth. The successful coordination of monetary and fiscal policies, as well as the consistent implementation of fiscal consolidation, have had a positive impact on improving the business and investment environment. The economic growth of the Republic of Serbia is a key macroeconomic indicator that depends on a sustainable increase in population living standards over the past five years. The maximum annual real GDP growth rate of 4.5% reached in 2018. The fiscal consolidation and arrangement measures from the IMF have affected the reduction of public debt to 52.9% of GDP in 2019, and the fact is that foreign direct investment has had a good influence on the growth of economic activity and employment growth. The labour market situation points to a significant recovery of the labour market between 2015 and 2019, a reduced unemployment rate, a constant increase in employment, and a increase in the number of employees by 262 000 between 2015 and 2019. The development of the modern financial market is conditioned by innovation and competition processes leading to the continued creation of new financial instruments and the expansion of the market. This is the policy direction of our government and this is the policy that the government has gained the trust of foreign investors. The growth of investments has been affected by certain reforms, such as labour market reforms, acceleration and procedures for approval of construction permits, dissemination of the application of electronic administrations and others. This year, the second quarter is expected to be a turning point in economic recovery and contribute to GDP growth between 5% and 6%. Since the beginning of the year, employment has been stable even though most of the economic activity continues to suffer the effects of the pandemic while epidemiological risks remain present. So far, the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by President Vukic, has indeed shown great seriousness and responsibility. Every promise has been fulfilled, from salary and pension growth to a reduction in unemployment to below 8% and a rise in living standards. To remind me, in 2013, unemployment was more than 25%, that Serbia was on the verge of bankruptcy in 2014, that we had a public debt greater than 70% of GDP in 2014. We're going back and we've got all the money that the guys in charge of, we've got no inflation, we've got a stable course, we're building highways, we've got factories, we've got hospitals now twice as much as ever. This year 10 general hospitals, schools are being renovated, and they haven't built anything before. We are preparing to build wastewater factories, a fast track to Nis, Presevo and Dimitrovgrad, Novi Sad we are creating a new modern Serbia and we all see and feel it. We are working to preserve cultural heritage and preserve national identity. We have achieved measures to preserve economic stability through economic assistance packages. We are now a successful and strong Serbia and many are bothered by it. We've been through a very difficult period, and all thanks to the responsibility and ability to vaccinate. In each place, we have the opportunity to choose a vaccine and thank all health workers who have laid superhuman strength to preserve lives and sacrifice themselves day and night in the covid centers. The Gilasovites first said there was no vaccine, and then they vaccinated among the first. Now they're talking against vaccines, which is very dangerous and unserious, because the whole world is fighting to preserve life. For all these years, we've not caused a single conflict, we've kept peace even though we've been hit all the time. None of us threatens or attacks, enters, such as the RTS and the National Assembly. With responsible policy, seriousness and concern and citizens, the military, police, economics, life, progress, implementation of plans and projects, our president has endured and daily suffers any blows to keep the state going, to maintain the place we hold in Europe, among the first three countries at the speed of progress. That's why those who hide their misdemeanors and bills with stolen citizens' money, that's why they're doing the same thing to President Vukic's head, which is why his family bothers them. How much money did the citizens bring out of Serbia, how many hospitals, businesses, roads we could build with that money, create new jobs and share with you citizens. Today we have become the winners of the losers. We've been building a Serbia that no one's built in tens of years. Dedicated work, discipline and savings have led to the recovery of the Serbian economy. Serbia wants to leave stable public finances to generations to come. We want to ensure stability for growth in the years and decades to come. Today Serbia is a country that cultivates friendship and co-operation with the East and the West, with Europe and Russia, with countries from the region and with the world's largest economic leaders. All together, it gives results that we are proud of, and that is why citizens have given their trust to President Vukic and the SNS. A trust that we will not fail and we will continue to fight for a better future, so in the day of voting, I will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6392	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to talk about a genocide that's been talked about here for a while. The order of the enemy soldier we received as leader is two, three, six, eight. When you enter Serbia, kill all the towers, the great Serbian bourgeoisies, industrialists and so on, that I don't read everything in order. This genocide, which was carried out for ideological reasons, which was conceived in Dresden, was it so for counterpart Martinovic, in 1928, when it was said that a large state, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, needs to make a collection of national states, which they did after the release. They split one country into six small states, of those six small states now five second-rate and third-class protectorates. They started the procedure and they finished it. Especially was a tragic beginning. You remember the Lika Uprising, the Ustasha in Lica, which was supported by the Communist Party, literally speaking in Proleter, the Authority of the Central Committee, that the Communist Party is placed on the Ustasha side of the people and Dalmatian peasants and that it is the duty of every communist to assist and lead the movement. At that time Artukovic and the company failed, so they fled to Italy, but this ideological drive to take power in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and that destruction was realized from 1941 to 1945, not to mention the egg. It is not true that the Ustasha foot will first set foot in Kosovo when a contingent of Croatian soldiers arrives, let them try to make some of their own checkpoints. The Ustasha leg set foot in 1944. This is Marko Mesic. You remember Stipe Mesic well. This is the commander of the 369th Ustasha Battle Regiment, who fell on Stalingrad. Stalin captured them, dressed them in uniform and sent them to Serbia. The Ustasha leg entered Belgrade in 1944. Marko Moonic shot the head of Jesus Christ in the church of the Orthodox Church. In 1944, all Serbs in Serbia, they were the shot Jesus Christ, for sure. Not only Serbs, the Germans and Hungarians also died in Vojvodina. It was also an ideological genocide. All Serbs were shot in such a way; 35,000 were killed without a court, only in Serbia's territory, another 35,000 were killed in pursuits or in impromptu trials, which were so interrupted by the court, condemnation and, shoot and later complain. This is the second copy, magnificent. This is a pilot of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia named Francis Pierce, who immediately fled to Zemun on the Ustasha side at the beginning of the war. His partner on the plane was captured and he went to Pavelic and was, Mr. Martinovic, a member of the Air Force headquarters, with Pavelic. In 1944, this person became commander of the New Yugoslavia Air Force. He's calling, asking for all pre-war pilots to report for a change of schedule in Panchev. Seventy-two pre-war pilots, who shot down 154 German aggressor aircraft, who bombed airports in Austria, Hungary and Bulgaria, from where planes came from, which is a rule in the war, in the village of Apple near Panchev, shoot 72 pre-war pilots, without any guilt from the royal army, into the royal army, with the permission of King Alexander, and to get acts, etc., from the royal army in NDH, then from NDH to Belgrade, and then they picked up those who resisted Hitler and shot them in the village of Apple, and they hardly knew their grave. I don't think there's any mention-mark. It's a genocide we should also talk about. After the Croats, the liberators made the greatest genocide. I've always claimed that we don't have so much trouble with our enemies, that we often fight while everyone fights against us, we fight among ourselves. The practice should be stopped, but before that we should tell all the citizens what happened, that there were two movements but there was severe retribution in 1944, because Serbia was allegedly royal, etc., and should have been avenged, which happened, that revenge was fierce and it was not only on Serbs, it was in Vojvodina and Hungary, on those who did not participate in any crime or on the Germans of Folksdojcers who suffered many innocents, and for the first time on Serbia's territory by new liberators in whom 95% of Serbs were formed camps for such people. There was no such thing in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have this one named Franjo Tudjman. Here he is, as Belgrade's liberator and with him Branko Kandic, said he was the father of Natasha Kandic. Now these are the famous liberators, then you can imagine what would happen to us if such liberators came to Serbia again. Ladies and gentlemen, I have here a magnificent specimen, so to speak, of someone almost new "The Ustasha Movement in Montenegro". I think the predecessor of this idea is Jovo Kapičić, who says – we had no mercy, which is usually the man who founded Goli Otok, but before he founded Goli Otok, he killed the Serbs that he didn't know how much either. We had no mercy, we were cruel, because we were cleaning up garbage. It was as if I was God at the time, there were no regulations, and you could judge and decide. What am I supposed to do now is make peace with someone I've already killed my brother? Serbia was mostly for Chetniks, not for partisans, that's what I'm telling you. Serbia was tied to the King of Dynasty and the church, which is in the soul of peoples, intellectuals, such as Slobodan Jovanovic, said Kapičić, for the daily Blic, 17 September 2009 in Belgrade. And then you wonder what's going on in Montenegro. In Montenegro, he said Serbia rode Montenegro, no Serb from Serbia was president of the Montenegro home council, let alone any official. The other way around. There is no function they have not taken up in the Republic of Serbia. They say Serbs in Montenegro, who have lived there for centuries before Montenagrino, who knew they were Serbs, as Negus was a Serb. They've lived there for centuries, they say they've committed an aggression on themselves. No, it's not true. The Montenegrines have been aggressive against the Serbs in Montenegro and that is a harsh fact, as they have committed aggression, such as the economic political type, both in Serbia itself and in the posts in Serbia. And today, again, peace works, "peace works" so under the precepts, if we're for peace, I don't believe that they are for peace, because that idea still lives in their heads. I was a god when I killed my brother, which wouldn't kill him, too, etc. This is what we did not admit in Serbia, Croats, Blybuk raised as that Ustasha movement that was liquidated, raised to high ground, these were as victims etc. We do not know how to condemn the victims that were made, so that Yugoslavia that was made would be Serbian blood from the Balkan wars, the First World War, which was created by a large country that was destroyed, to make small states, in favour of some nations, which participated in World War I against Serbs, and even in World War II. Instead of being punished, they were rewarded, and we in Serbia do not have the strength to admit -- yes, there was, not a Serb leader, but an occupation soldier we recognised as leader, he led the movement, he took revenge on Serbs, but also on Hungarians and Germans, who were not responsible for the crimes, which were made against Serbs in Serbia. We need to find strength for that. I'm not asking for our differences to be shared, but in order for the differences not to be divided, we have to admit this other genocide, nor have anyone in this room, nor any of its ancestors, can we, for ideological hereditary reasons, now recognize that genocide that happened in 1944, 1945, until 1953. We can't help but admit, we have to have the strength, that people were killed, to take away their property, that the grandfathers were busy to move in. We're not colleagues, none of us have moved in on the Santas, so let's not represent those who are not worthy of our representation. We just need to know, we can't go into conflict with ourselves anymore. We have to admit this genocide, otherwise it can happen again. Remember, if there's a conflict, again alone with us, we must be losing again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6394	The word has a People's MP, Predrag Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6395	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, we are today discussing an unusually important topic. I'd say this session has one sobering, solemn and a little sad character. We cannot not be sad every time we look at our history and conclude that there is simply no date in our past that has not been marked by some Serbian suffering. We built our house in the middle of the road. We built it at the intersection, many conquerors came here. Many have tried to reach our space, our territories, our resources, but not all have tried to destroy us completely. Today we are talking about an important topic, an issue that should be continued is present in our society, which should be addressed in an adequate and academic way, and therefore I am unusually glad that this body and this assembly are discussing this issue, especially because we have a record number of younger MPs in it. The Serbian people invested a lot in the idea of Yugoslavia, they actually invested most convincingly, and from that idea we got the most convincingly good. In the 19th century, our elite was entwined by this idea, the great Negos wrote all the way about Yugoslavia, fantasized about it about the ancient regions, rarely who looked at the subject as soberly as Svetozar Miletic, rarely who knew what the whole idea could come up with and how expensive it could cost us. That sobering came in the 20th century in the most cruel and playful way possible. A genocide carried out against Serbs in the so-called The independent state of Croatia is one of the most monstrous crimes that the fascist ideology of evil in its Ustasha vest has committed and this Second World War, which itself was very cruel, we have, in fact, had in these places such crimes from which blood in the veins, even the German Nazis, were iced. And that's not what I'm saying in my head. You have a dozen documents that were sent by Italian fascists, the German Nazis from this area where they talked about how cruel the Ustasha regime was and how it was dealt with primarily with Serbs, but also with Jews, Roma and all those they thought were enemies of the state and that they were not worthy to live in this monstrous formation of NDH. These people were killed twice. They were killed during the genocide in NDH, for the first time. The second time they were killed when the veil of oblivion was placed on them during the communist Yugoslavia. Those victims were not talked about enough, and the Serbian omen was often erased and they were said to fall because they were anti-fascists who were Yugoslavs, which were patriots. It is not disputed that they were anti-fascists, patriots, that at that time we lived in a state and in a society where Serbian women were born of Yugoslavs and Croats were born of Croats. It is not clear to me why many people who belong to some of the older generations with the set look to Yugoslavia because they remember, above all, their youth. Tito's Yugoslavia did have some elements that were definitely for those who lived in it, quality and positive, because it gave some possibility to achieve existence, certain security, some framework within which personal ambition could be realized. But my memories, let's say in Yugoslavia, are very different. My first memory of Yugoslavia dates back to 1991 when I was a four-year-old boy at the Sombor hospital for pneumonia and a video of a JNA guy who died in front of me because he was mortally wounded in a Vukovar battlefield and brought here. It's my first memory of Yugoslavia. And I can never forget that guy. Also, I can never forget in 1995 when I saw on the TV columns of Serb refugees fleeing Republika Srpska, fleeing from the frenzied crazy ideology of evil, which had just been aimed at ending the process that Pavelic started in 1941, and ended by Franjo Tudjman, Tito's general and someone who was definitely a leader, who was supposed to sublime actually three types of ideologies in Croatia that had the same goal, which was independent and independent Croatia, ethnically cleansed by Serbs. We have to talk a lot more about the crimes of genocide that took place over the Serb people in Belgrade, especially in the so-called. NDH and one more moment. In our capital, unfortunately, many Serbs suffer from a disease called croatophylia. I have no problem with anyone respecting and respecting the culture of any nation. I personally have nothing against the Croatian people and the Croatian state whatsoever, I am always the first to advocate it, and it can be easily checked, for the defence of the rights of the Croatian national community here in Serbia and for them to have maximum rights, regardless of our countrymen in Croatia having no such rights at all, but this political ideology, in fact, croatophilia does not mean love for Croats, it implies autoschuvinism, implies hatred for its own people and the continuity of denying everything that has happened to him and representing the interests of some other political elite and some other political ideas. In this case, a political idea that has, in continuity since 1991, ruled in the Republic of Croatia regardless of who is in power and which has its roots much deeper and in the "maspok" and in the Ustasha regime, both in Frank and before in Ante Starčević and other ideologists of blood and soil. Ladies and gentlemen, it's up to us to hit the groundwork for a fight that's going to take a long time. The Museum of Genocide is an institution that we must enrich, in which we must go, to which we must take both tomorrow and our children in the same way that all those who have been killed only because they were born in one faith, in one nation are remembered by Jews, some other members of the people who have died in continuity through the centuries and who can understand us. There are not many peoples on this earth who can understand Serbian suffering, because our suffering, especially in the 20th century, although other centuries have not been much better, there have been Bible proportions and we have often tried, probably because it is very difficult to accept what happened to you without being filled with anger, ignored all of it. We are Christians, we do not need to fulfill the anger, we need to fulfill the love of our neighbor, we need to fulfill the Lord's prayer with the goal that all those who are filled with hatred actually see and kidnap these demons of evil. We need to fulfill love for our people and respect for all other nations and nations. We are such a people. We are such a country. We, at last, remember all those who were killed just because they had a Serbian background. We are finally openly talking about the 1995 storm crime and we are marking it with dignity. This was not possible before 2012, and before coming to power Alexander Vukic. We finally address our public in an adequate way for everything that happened to us in the 1990s in the space of the entire former Yugoslavia, but also in the Second and First World War. We haven't even answered that in an adequate way. We have often tried to ignore our own past, and for some reconciliation or co-existence with our neighbors. I think it's a completely wrong concept. No people are criminal. No people have committed a collective crime. The criminals have their names and last names. Ideologies can be criminal. People can't be criminal. The countries that are created in the ideology of evil may and may be demonic criminals, such as NDH, but the nations are not. That's why we can build co-existence, we can give our hand, we can communicate and co-operate with everyone in the environment, and not be ashamed to mention, in a scientific way, determined when we were all killed and we were all victims of all the ideology of evil, through different eras, and all the political projects that were meant to destroy us. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude with one appeal. It is an appeal that each of us takes enough time and meets, in fact, and with his homeland, but also with complete Serbian space and is aware that Serbs are equally injured wherever we live, that we are educated, that we have arguments, that we have facts with us, whenever we enter any kind of controversy, not only with those who defend the ideology of evil, but also with those who live here among us, and the car are chauvinists, trying to undo all the victims of this people. Please, because only through the light of knowledge and through the wisdom of Christian love will we be able to defeat the evil that was overtook at the different eras and now lurking somewhere from the extremity and waiting to attack us, and it will certainly attack us at the moment when we forget our own victims. That's why it's important today that we discuss this topic and that I believe we bring the proper regulations to prevent it from happening, to prevent us from forgetting what evil has been done to us in the 20th century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6396	The word has a folk emissary Sanja Lakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6397	Thank you. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, dear colleagues, used to say that the least salty water in Sibenik was due to its mouth with the Krka River, and then researchers went a few metres deeper and found out that in Sibenik it was the saltiest sea in the entire Adriatic. It definitely took someone to get the courage and take a few steps further. It is the same in the sea of people, noted a Serbian journalist doing a show about Serbs in Dalmatia, saying they can meet and mix with those who cross differently and still remain their own. Years behind us have shown that many of us and of them have not understood these words. That's why in the 20th century since our first neighbor's death, we've had a bloody execution of a small, stone and knife policy, and we've only had one goal, and that's to eradicate everything that's Serbian. Getting ready for today's committees, but also for a session where we talk about amendments and additions to the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocide, I visited this institution that was founded for the permanent memory of the victims of genocide against Serbs, but also of Jews, Roma, other peoples and national minorities. After visiting the museum, I have only one sentence left that says this-- the greatest punishment for the victim is forgotten. So today Serbia does not forget the landscape tragedy and builds a memorial park on Raca, which remembers the two petroval roads that happened to us in a hundred years or twice, on the Raca that remembers every refugee legacy of our Krajisniks. The greatest punishment for the victim is to forget. That is why it is necessary for our youth to learn that if we do not master all those lessons from the past, the history of blood will certainly repeat itself. The most severe punishment for the victim is forgetfulness. That is why it is necessary through culture, through the film industry, but also in other ways to illuminate not only the fate of Dara from Jasenovac, but also all those childhoods that have been interrupted without having reached the first number, not even the first letter. Indeed, the greatest punishment for the sacrifice is forgotten. It is therefore important that today our leaders do not talk about the crimes that have taken place against the Serbs with their heads down, but that they proudly speak of our past, of our victims, of all those who have been killed, of the cradle and of the cradle. Indeed, the most severe punishment for the sacrifice is forgotten. Listening to the words of an old woman from Kozara, Grandma Kovilke, a few days ago in Lower Gradina, an old woman who had been destroyed by childhood, burned down the house, destroyed her family and left her a torn-up life, listening to her, I think we've got absolutely every lesson about how to run politics in the region. She was at the scene in Lower Garden talking about all those crimes that happened. It stood on the ground just 1.2m where thousands and thousands of Serbs, Jews and Roma were buried. It stood at 1.2m from the country where today there are buried and dolls, toys and dressing rooms and children's bones, the whole of a children's world, and Serbian, and Jewish, and Roma. In that place, she said she wanted all the nations to never repeat the evil that her people had experienced from Kozara. She said, as a victim, that she wants peace and stability in the region, that she wants peace for all the peoples, but she's going to talk about all those crimes that happened because she doesn't want history to make a bloody execution. That is what we should do today, because the Serb will no longer be guilty just because he is a Serb and will no longer be a Serb with such a policy in the pit. Indeed, the greatest punishment for the sacrifice is forgotten. It is therefore important that we today adopt amendments to the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of genocide. It is important because we will solve several key points for its better functioning, including its headquarters, legal alignment with the Law on Culture and the work of museums, there will be rules applicable to all institutions, as well as regulations governing the field of culture, the protection of cultural goods and museum activities. I can't when we talk about genocide, when we talk about Jasenovac, Jastrebarski, when we talk about the bloody crimes that took place, and about "Storm" and "Blash" without remembering what the president in Lower Gradina said just a few days ago -- it's a small crime business of yours as high as our heads are, and how big and Serbian, not territorial, but spiritually, not to attack, but to defiance of survival and progress. So today we do not punish our victims with oblivion, but we remember them, but we also remember and forgive those of our executioners, whom our patriarch Porphyria says have been released from every nation, have been released from the people. Today, here from the home of the National Assembly, I sincerely hope that we will be a generation that will understand that metaphor of the Krka and the Adriatic, that people can meet in the sea and interfere with those who cross each other and still remain their own. Let's not let any more children's world be buried within 1.2 metres, as it was buried just decades ago by the Serbian children's world. And let's not let the policies of bullets, small politics, stone and knives run in this region anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6398	The word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6399	Dear Minister with Associates, Honored colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, five proposals of important laws are today ahead of us. The draft legislation on technical requirements for products and the conformity assessment of technical legislation shall comply with the legislation applicable in the EU, and in particular after the screening for the negotiating Chapter 1 – Freedom of movement of goods. The bill defines the legal basis for improving technical legislation, harmonising with EU best practice and modern standards in the field of technology, improving conditions for business and developing Serbian economy, and reducing unfair competition and removing unfair barriers to trade. The application of new rules would contribute to the safety of their use, because when the consumer sees a sign of conformity on the product, he should make sure that all the requirements that allow it to be safe are applied to the product, both for the person using it and for the environment. As for harmonisation with the EU and freedom of movement of goods, the Chapter on the free movement of goods implies that all products can be traded freely, from one end of the EU. It is made up of technical regulations that regulate the quality infrastructure that includes standardisation, accreditation, metricology, conformity assessment and market surveillance. These regulations apply to all products and cover the so-called ‘. a harmonised area. It is noteworthy that this law will regulate the safety of products for use in proper declaration and labelling, and a Serbian sign of consistency will also be defined. All this will lead to easier and more efficient business and to prevent unfair competition. Unconscious trading will be sanctioned in time. The legislation regulates products that are legally manufactured and placed on the market in one Member State and which can be freely moved within the EU single market. They are subject to the principle of mutual recognition. Also, achieving full compliance with EU rules will ensure respect for one of the fundamental freedoms of the single market - freedom of movement of goods. This principle means that trade in products from one part of the EU in any other must be implemented without restrictions. Accordingly, Serbia's products will also move on the European market without obstacles. On the day of EU accession, Serbia becomes part of the EU's internal market on which the same rules apply to all Member States' products. Freedom of movement of goods will allow quality Serbian products to be placed on the European market while quality European products are placed on Serbia's market. The law that we are talking about today will contribute to better human health protection, allow for better, stronger market surveillance and increase the competitiveness of the economy. As for the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Museums of Genocide Victims, it is about changes in technical nature and it is about compliance with other laws and establishing the place, the seat of the museum, and it will be in Belgrade instead of in Kragujevac for the future. This will solve the problems of administrative nature. The museum is a permanent memory of victims who were injured in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. These victims were rarely children. Their deaths were also witnessed by the Bosko Buha Memorial complex on the apple near Prepolje, and as part of it was the Museum of Pioneers and Youth of Yugoslavia. I'm aware that time has run over the ideological stories of bombers, pioneers, and memorial complexes, but I think it's important that we keep our history from oblivion, and we must not let such a place of memory fail. Namely, pioneers of Prijepolje and Pljevlja launched the initiative and launched an action to raise money to build a memorial home in memory of Boška Buha. The pioneer action came across general support, and donations from various businesses followed, so the Memorial home was opened in 1966. Since then, he has become one of the most visited historic sites in the SFRY. Unfortunately, however, I must say that things have changed significantly today. With great activity and advocating citizens of Prepolje, but also many across the former Yugoslavia, through an online petition, this complex is excluded from the last sale of businesses that owned the space. The first step was taken, but the complex remained undefined. No one's taking care of him anymore, and he doesn't run it. The complex is located on the mountain of Apples, at 1,260 meters above sea level, so it is an ideal opportunity with addition and expansion for the development of tourism. There would then be the possibility of organising a school in nature, as well as many other facilities. I'm sorry the culture minister isn't here right now, and I would ask her to make an effort to resolve the issue of the Museum of Pioneers and Youth in the Apple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6400	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Samir Ćosovic. The word has a folk emissary, Milica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6401	The Honorable President-in-Office, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished members of the Government, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is also on today's agenda for amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Railway Traffic. It is very important to note that the railway today is among the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, that is, when it comes to modernising it. It is known that railways are the best form of transport, especially when environmental protection is at stake, and it should not have been forgotten by the former authorities, but how they forgot and destroyed everything else would indeed have been a miracle if at least the railways had thought. I will refer to the railway route which is most important to the municipality from which I come, which is the intersection of road and rail traffic, so the municipality of Požega and the entire Zlatibor district. This is the Belgrade – Bar railway. In four and a half decades since it was built, it has not been more significantly reconstructed until 2017 when shares from Belgrade to Valjev were reconstructed, 77km long. The Belgrade railway – Bar is one of the most demanding railways, with 254 bridges and 234 tunnels. I am very pleased that today's research works are being carried out, i.e. establishing the state of the field on the part of Valjev to the border with Montenegro, in order to access the project-technical documentation as soon as possible, and to reconstruct and modernise the part. On the one hand, we count decades as not invested in highways and how many citizens of our country have waited to reach the places where the highways live and bring with them investors and new jobs, and on the other hand we count for decades as our citizens waited, not only to build new railways, but to reconstruct the existing ones. That SNS and President Vukic's policy is a development policy, a policy of Serbia's secure future, also says the network of highways being built today, but the railway network. This also applies to the Belgrade-Nish track, then Nis – Dimitrovgrad, but also to the fast track between Belgrade and Budapest, which is one of the most important projects in this part of Europe. When the share of Belgrade -- Novi Sad -- is finished, it will continue from Novi Sad to Sudotica, and trains will traffic around 200km per hour, and Russian and Chinese investors are included as performers. In order to achieve good relations with countries, such as Russia and China, wise policy, responsible policy is needed and President Aleksandar Vukic is responsible for this and it is clear to all citizens. Today, it is not clear to anyone that those who have destroyed the Serbian economy by 2012 and completely destroyed it without any shame say that co-operation with China needs to be interrupted. Here I primarily think of Dragan Gilas and Dusan Nikezic, who says Serbia should break up contracts on construction projects with China. If he advised his employer, Gilas, then I am not surprised that by 2012, Serbia had no highway, no new railways, which the factories had closed down. I would remind Mr. Nikezic, when he compares prices and kilometers, to compare the price of Mosta to the whole length of Preljin – Požega, the highway Milos Veliki, which has 35 bridges, three tunnels, four overpasses, and tell the citizens why his employer Dragan Djilas, while in power, paid one bridge more than the entire section of the highway. I'm afraid the answer to that lies on accounts in Mauritius or some other destinations, but which today, I hope, are known to the competent authorities. We will continue to fight for the development of our country, for our country's entry into the EU, for good and close relations with both China and Russia, but also with the United States, with Japan and with all the countries that bear global development. Because our goal is a strong, economically strong and stable Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6402	I thank the People's MP, Milic Nikolic. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6403	Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, you heard that a few days ago in England, London, Mr. Sadik Khan, the son of Pakistani migrants, who grew up in a social apartment, won the mayor's election. He got 55.2% of the votes and remained so old-new mayor of this great metropolis. And it wasn't easy for him. I made this introduction to tell you that he won with one message, with one maximum, continuous repetition – employment, employment, employment. And with one real policy, which he managed to preserve jobs, to hire a large number of people in London, the moment London lost and when the Kovid gave him really strong blows. That is also the Maxes of the Social Democratic Party. For us, employment and any law regarding employment and any effort to create and create new jobs, to deal with workers, their rights and their standards, ultimately, is a crucial issue. We have before us a law that deals with employment and I must say that although there are small changes, they are very important, since it defines the strategic documents and action plans that follow them, or determines how long they will be. From now on, it will be six years, strategic plans, and action plans will be made for three years. I want to say that this law encourages decentralisation of local self-government, which makes me more happy, since local self-government will also make plans. In current practice, the National Employment Action Plan was the basis for the adoption of local action plans and together represented instruments for planning and implementing active policy measures, i.e. improving employment conditions. Local action plans have made it possible to recognise the specific needs of territorial autonomy, i.e. local self-government, which, in their own way and in accordance with their capabilities, plan measures and activities to improve the local labour market, which, I stress, encourages decentralisation of local self-government. Because of this, we will support this law, as well as the other laws, in the day of voting with the air.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6404	I thank you, especially for taking care of the rest of the time. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6405	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia -- God saved me from telling the world where I was and what I saw. These are the words of Mary Pochuche of Divosel, who in August 1941 survived the slaughter and throwing into the pit on Velebit. In these terrible events, she did not survive her three little children – Milka, Dušanka and the youngest Branko. They were slaughtered and thrown into the Jarchia pit on Velebit, on August 6, 1941, and Milka stayed with this sentence, to convey to the world what happened to us. This, unfortunately, has been the only link for decades and the most common sentences in families that have survived these horrors and the only connection to these terrible events and victims of 1941. This was a very common sentence and something that followed my family. This was a sentence spoken by my grandfather, the only surviving male family member from the July 1941 massacre. However, many families have not had the opportunity to hear this sentence. Is it because the direct witnesses didn't survive, or because the whole family didn't exist? Unfortunately for us, that sentence was spoken by hiding, quietly, in the families of decades and those who in all that accident were fortunate that someone was saying it, were the only link to these events. And what was the state doing? The state has systematically covered up this crime for decades, one. When the other one came, she was kind of shy about it all and kept quiet. All in all, it took decades for this topic, which was a family story, to become a quiet one, to become an important state topic. And I have no intention of taking any political points on this subject, because this topic is something that pressures every Serb, no matter what political definition it is, but one fact is correct. This has become a state issue out of family stories and silent family whispers since today's country's president, Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, and their partners took over. Only then did this become a real state issue. Perhaps many in this hall, many citizens today who see this and don't understand it, but this is one of the historic moments in parliamentary life in Serbia. It is rare that historic moments in which these topics were discussed in parliament and in any state institution in Belgrade. Late, but better late than never. Because these sessions are precisely evidence that these quiet family whisperings and quiet family stories have become an important topic for the country. On the other hand, this is our debt to Maria Pochuchi, this is our debt to her children Milk, Dušanka and Brank, this is our debt to every woman, child, man, victim of genocide, and talking about this subject today is my personal debt to my ancestors, to my family. Today, this bill takes a serious debt to itself and to the Ministry of Culture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. A serious debt to preserve the memory of these victims, but a debt worthy of respect and support in this respected home. What about life? Life always wins. It is certainly proof that today, in this House, those who survived this terrible period, as well as the descendants of those who were victims of that period, are also speaking. My parliamentary mandate, or parliamentary internship, has now been measured for years. The number of laws I have supported and voted for in this honored home is measured by hundreds. Each of them is voted by conviction and political definition. This one and these laws are voted with the heart. In the day of voting, I will vote with my colleagues, with my heart for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6406	The word has a folk MP, Vesna Nedovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6407	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, who have proposed amendments and additions to the current law, is the basic document of public policies in the field of active employment policy and represents the Employment Strategy and the Action Plan. The Employment Strategy with the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia is being adopted for a period of five to seven years. The Action Plan is followed by the implementation and implementation of the Strategy, and it is chosen every year. The change proposes that the Strategy be adopted for a period of six years, and the Action Plan for a period of three years. The proposed changes have defined a document of public policies at local level to be a employment programme. Local self-government units will be obliged to carry out an annual assessment of financial effects and resources for each of these measures so that the ministry can decide on possible co-financing. The ministry also enables more efficient public policy planning, monitoring the implementation of employment, analysis and other policies, and participants define certain activities for their planning and participation. This will contribute to standardisation of public policy measures, as well as more effective monitoring of the impact by the ministry. The National Action Plan with local action plans together represents an improvement of the employment situation. The local action plan enables the planning of measures and activities and thus encourages decentralisation of local self-government. On April 2nd, 2021, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs signed an Agreement on the impact of the National Employment Service for this year, which, as the minister pointed out, will significantly contribute to greater employment and especially the most vulnerable category of the population. One of the activities in the field is the realisation of active employment policy measures through public calls and competitions, and more than five billion dinars have been provided for these measures. It is planned that in this year 18,225 unemployed, of which 2,185 people with disabilities. With the adoption of the Employment Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2021 to 2026 and the accompanying Agenda for Action for the period from 2021 to 2023, conditions for the signing of this Agreement were met. The Director of the National Employment Service added that clearly defined categories covered by incentives, such as colleagues -- under 30 years of age, persons with disabilities over 50 years of age, Roma, unskilled persons, victims of domestic violence and others. During last year, responsible management of the National Employment Service implemented almost all plans of planned programmes regardless of the difficulties caused by the Kovid 19 pandemic. Following the prescribed measures, the National Employment Service sought to bring its services as close as possible to the number of its users. Under the difficult conditions, the "My First Salary" programme, more than 10,000 showed interest in participating in the programme. In fact, 17.081 candidates successfully registered with 7,524 employers, 5,659 contracts actively started training with the employer in the private sector, and for 144 contracts the signing and beginning for epidemiological reasons was delayed. I note that the unemployed will receive additional one-time assistance under economic aid to the government of the Republic of Serbia for an additional 60 euros and will be paid in June. On April 2, this year, the National Employment Service issued 13 public calls. a competition through which more than 18,000 unemployed persons will be included through direct financial support to employers and unemployed. The focus will be, as I said, on more difficult employment categories, which include under 30 years of age without secondary education, over 50 years of age, Roma, persons with disabilities, long-term unemployed, financial assistance users and victims of family violence. In co-operation with the GIZ, the National Employment Service has provided free online training that is currently affecting 200 participants, of which 190 women are total, and out of 15 are returnees from Germany and other countries. They have the opportunity to acquire certain knowledge from the field of accounting and accounting and receive a certificate. The Global Migration Development Programme is part of the Return to New Chances Project and is funded by the German Federal Ministry of Economic Co-operation. The National Employment Service together with the Serbian government and the competent ministry, despite the Kovid 19 pandemic, managed to maintain the unemployment rate below 10%. Such success can only be praised by countries whose policy is exactly where the people are first. Aleksandar Vukic expressed great joy and satisfaction with Serbia's success. The first quarter of this year -- the growth rate of minus 1.3 is planned, but it happened, which is pride for each government, the growth rate is plus 1%, and the growth rate in the second quarter of 11% can be expected compared to the second quarter last year. We will be the best in all of Europe, and it says that we will have higher salaries and pensions for our citizens, more money for all industries and new investments. On the occasion of the Day of Remembrance of May 8th, the victims of the crime of genocide in NDH at the Jasenovac concentration camp, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic laid his wreath in the Donja Gradina Memorial area. "We must not agree to the silence brought by new camps and new bones. That's why I'm ordering, the new Jasenovac, the new "Storms" will not happen to our people. It is recommended by a small but stronger and dignified Serbia," said President Aleksandar Vukic. "The Serb people will live despite everything and those who didn't want to," the president added. The book of Professor Gideon Graif, “Jasenovac, Auschwitz of the Balkans,” discusses the atrocities in this place of hell. And he says the German foreign ministry representatives in 1944 spoke of the death of 700,000 Serbs in Jasenovac. We no longer live in a time when Serbs are represented as evil, savages, criminals, and Serbs remain silent, head down, suffer and swallow because they are no longer in power in Serbia, Boris Tadic and Dragan Dilas, whose only job was to apologize, admit something that Serbs did not do, of course, for a handful of dollars of world powers. Serbia today remembers its victims, respects its history, but creates a better future without hatred. The truth slowly begins to appear where she was strangled for decades. Scary images to the head of shaved and frightened children, some who were strangling the truth, were the result of a swamp cloud around Gradina, i.e. Malaria and typhoid diseases and not just prisoners, but security guards. The book of Gideon Graif speaks of all crimes, documented images, and destroys all the beauty of some books that speak of Jasenovac as a work camp where children were brought for better living conditions in these wartimes. With such statements, all those victims of hell were killed again. Professor Gideon Graif is a world expert on Auschwitz and for 30 years he has dealt with the deaths and killings in it and when he says Jasenovac is incomparably the scarier, brutal and most notorious in World War II, a man who has nothing to do with the Serbian people, Serbia and Serbian origin. The Ustashas in the camp simply boasted of their atrocities by taking pictures of themselves beside their victims as well as the way they killed bloodied hands to their shoulders. They did not hide the killings of Serbs, Jews and Roma, leaving it all as evidence of the horror of the Germans, the Italians, without their pressure and coercion. The German officers who visited this death camp were led to atrocity, and such methods of torture and killing Ustasha represented a natural thing. Many campers committed suicide because they could no longer endure the suffering of slavery to the death, the death camp, the scariest camp in World War II, Jasenovac. I quote the passage from the book of Dr Gideon - Auschwitz was not yet a camp when Jasenovac was already a slaughterhouse for Serbs, Jews and Roma. We will never know the exact number of brutally murdered Jasenovic victims, because we will never know the names that have disappeared in the depths of Sava, and there were so many that the bodies of dynamite were blown up to pave the way for the nazi war monitors. The number of those who were burned in furnaces, the number of those who were never born, because they were removed from the wombs of their mothers, the number of those who were cooked for soap in the cauldrons, the number of those who were crucified and nails impaled on top of the horrors in the building to slowly die and to have their bodies cut off animals, the number of those who rose up graves in 1945, and burned the remains of their crime with gasoline to remove traces and the number of those whose credential remains were destroyed in mass graves. And finally, I want to commend the good organization of the House of Health of Zemun and the city hall of Zemun. The citizens of Zemun have the possibility of being vaccinated into multiple locations in land settlements without an appointment. These locations have been home to health, as a permanent location since the start of vaccination, Batajnica mobile point, Ugrinovci, also, mobile point, Galenika ambulatory, Zemun Polje Health Institute Kamendin, Busije ambulatory, Altina mobile point, old office. The citizens of Zemun understand the importance of vaccination and want to return to life. I urge us to vaccinate and thus help us to return to normal life faster to work, to be healthy, to make Serbia our most visited country, to make our catering facilities full. In the day for the vote, I will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, as well as my parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6408	I thank the People's Parliament. The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6409	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister Obradovic and his associates, and today we have a large number of laws in front of the MPs, a large number of amendments and additions to legal solutions, and this only shows that the National Assembly is doing a full pair for the sake of a better life for all Serbian citizens. All these laws are still aimed at that goal today, which is a better life for all Serbian citizens. I mean, it's because there's been a negative campaign against this Parliament for a long time, in the most unsatisfactory way, people's MPs are being insulted, making various scenes in front of the parliament itself, we've seen previous weeks and ugly scenes when you've had attacks on the MPs, and that just shows our opposition today that we are fully aware of the fact that in power they cannot come in a legitimate way, as is done in all normal states, by running some programme in elections, and then some citizens voting for this programme, I say, aware of all of their failed policies and the fact that today in Serbia absolutely no one believes them anymore, they are going to island to this Parliament, to the National Assembly. I say, they do all the things that have led somewhere to believe that, as on October 5th, someone on the side will give them money, so that they can come to power beyond the elections, in the way that even in previous times their idols are, and they themselves today, practically our entire opposition is just one over-compensated DS that was completely beaten in the 2012 elections. They again believe that in the way they once came to power they will be able to rule here again. Unfortunately, this will not go hand in hand, and I am sure that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will stand behind our policy, above President Aleksandr Vukic, and that we will firmly defend the position that Serbian citizens can choose their authority rather than anyone on the side, as they think it is. I say once again today a large number of legal solutions on the agenda. The first is the proposal to amend and supplement the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. The main newspaper is that we will put a employment strategy and action plan on these proposed changes as a basic document for public policy creation. So we're going to have a clearly defined strategy on how and where we want to do the employment. We, as you know, even before 2013 when we came to power, adopted a ban on public sector employment. In this way, we have managed to consolidate public finances, prevent uncontrolled employment, and today we are adopting another legal solution to prevent uncontrolled public sector employment when it comes to local self-government. In this way we will bring to employment only where there is space, that is, where the financial indicators of some public enterprises at the place allow employment and certainly that is a good indicator of how the household is managed by public finances. Because, as we know, the former authorities have been uncontrollably hiring in the public sector. This is why we were forced to restrict employment in the public sector and thus simply help the state come out of the big problems that the former authorities have introduced. I say again, despite all these measures, we managed to reduce unemployment from 26% in 2012 to today's 7%, which is an indication that we have just stimulated employment in the private sector, and that we have simply prevented uncontrollable party employment as previously in the public sector. This bill also introduces order into local public institutions. It is also now on the agenda of the State Authority sealing the exchange of documentary and other material that is prepared and produced in the work of these bodies by electronic means. This is another law that is next to the Law on Electronic Administration aims to digitise public administration in the way it was proposed by Prime Minister Brnabic in the exposé when it was placed at the top of the priorities in the work of the new government, practically two previous governments, precisely the digitisation of public administration have as a priority, and that is certainly something that we confirm by this law today. The fact that today we want to improve our public administration, that it really is the service of citizens, is, as you yourself said, something that is an absolute priority. We want to reduce this unnecessary bureaucracy, we want to reduce administrative procedures to a minimum, we want to digitize our public administration, and I'm sure this law will rightly improve exactly what we've been saying here in the Assembly today. When we talk about it, of course, the main issue of investors coming into our country is this three-way administration, and that we must, with positive legal solutions and certain amendments to the law, influence that all these procedures are reduced and that we simply have one efficient administration, as you said, it is certainly a priority. We want our citizens to have a European quality of life, and therefore these laws are just about it. There is also a draft law on amendments to the Law on transport contracts in railways. Another law, that is what Serbian citizens should hear, which right now refers to improving the quality of life itself for Serbian citizens. So all we're saying in the tide, of course, is that we need to explain as much as possible how important it is for the citizens to hear what it is that we're doing today to make it easier for them to function through it and to bring about a improvement in their lives. When it comes to this law, the fact is that we are finally in line with what is on this European agenda here, which is to bring our legislation into line with the EU itself, with their legislation. In particular, this is about passenger rights when it comes to rail traffic, or plastic to explain, translated into Serbian, when late train you have the right to refund the funds you paid for, the map. That's what we could hear earlier somewhere that it's happening in Japan, in the EU or in other more advanced countries, right now it's being implemented here and with us. So when the train is late, you have the right to refund the amount you paid for the ticket. These legal solutions improve the position of passengers in rail traffic at all. When we talk about rail traffic, we can't help but remember that practically 50 years nothing has been invested in railway infrastructure itself. I come from Zlatibor, the Belgrade-Bar railway, the housewives of the whole of our county and generally our country, has been neglected for 4.5 decades, no investment has been made, and the other day we were all really glad to see that we were finally doing measurements, doing tests, a 20m-euro project, revitalising the entire road route from Zlatibor to the border with Montenegro. We are revitalising the Belgrade-Bar road route, we want our trains to go from Belgrade to Bar again, as they went in 1976, imagine, five hours, and today, I remember when I was a student, for 15 hours we knew we were driving from Belgrade to Bar. It's amazing that we have so far reversed the railway infrastructure itself. I say, in 1976, when the track was open, five hours went by, and here we were almost witnessing a 15-hour trip. So today we have enough resources and we can invest in anything that hasn't been invested in for decades. When we talk about this, in 2017, a major venture was made on the route with the funds of the Russian loan, which was financed by the loan aimed at restoring the 77.6km railway from Resnik to Valjev, where trains are now going 100km per hour. Now, that's what we want back, to put the railroad back where it was. We want people to ride trains again because for years, nothing has been invested. Of course, we brought that infamous epithet of the slowest railways in Europe precisely during all the former governments that absolutely did nothing to invest in the fact that this general form of traffic is somehow being helped, that certain funds are being given. We today by these means certainly will be able to revitalize that railroad, we want these trains to continue to go over 100 an hour, and as we can see, it can go much faster. Here, the president announced that from Belgrade to Nis it would be arriving in an hour and 20 minutes, right on that train track going over 200km per hour. So, we see that today, when Serbia has enough resources, when it can finance, which alone, which is from credits, favourable ones, though, which we take to build, not to pay salaries and pensions, like the yellow ones did. So we can see how you invest in the country and, see, up to Novi Now, in just a year, or less than a year, it's going to go in 27 minutes. When you might have said that before, no one could believe it would be true. When we talked about the 2025 plan exactly what I'm saying today, everyone laughed and thought it was impossible. Now you see that it is possible, by the end of the year or by February, as the president said, to go 27 minutes from Belgrade to Novi Sad. We will continue to work the railway towards Subotica, i.e. Budapest, and we are also funding it with a Russian loan. This is where we work for Nis with the European Union. So we show that we are working together with everyone and that this is the essence, that regardless of the geopolitical circumstances, we are working with everyone, in a way that makes it better for the citizens of Serbia, that it can also travel west towards Zlatibor, Montenegro and Nis. So, rail infrastructure is absolutely a priority now in the next few years, which we'll be able to revitalise everything that hasn't been done for years after us. When we talk about it, we can't not mention that this year it's eight highways, that everything that hasn't been done for years, is invested in health care, invests in hospitals, invests in schools. Today, Serbia shows that when it heads a domestic and responsible policy, there is room for everything, which was absolutely not the case before. And to finally look back at what we are, colleagues have talked more about it, last but not least, I even think it may be the most important act today that we bring here – the establishment of a museum for the victims of genocide. The fact that in the previous years and not at all decades it was allowed to talk about genocide against the Serb people – and this is due today to President Aleksandar Vukic. We can talk about how brutally our people died in the last century. In the 20th century, the Serbian people beside the Jews and Armenians were the only people over whom genocide was carried out, and we have no right to remain silent about the fact. I think that the initiative that the president has put forward, which is that the National Assembly adopts a resolution that will define that genocide has been committed against the Serbian people, something that is very important and important. There are criticisms in the public that this will affect our relationship with the Republic of Croatia. I'm not sure, of course, that's an important question, but I think that the shadows of all those people who have been thrown into caves in Herzegovina, Jadovna, all those victims of Serbians who have been slaughtered in Jasenovac, are nevertheless something that must be more of a priority than any relationship with the successors of those countries that have committed and implemented a systematic genocide against our people in previous times. That is why I absolutely support the initiative to pass an act condemning the Serbian Parliament's absolute genocide against our people, which was committed in the 20th century. Whether the world will confess or not, we see that they have refused to confess over the Armenians for 100 years, so the truth slowly comes out. Therefore, we have an obligation to all those victims who were members of our people and were guilty only because they were Serbs, so they were killed, they didn't save children, they didn't save mothers who were pregnant, so they killed everything from cradles to older people. We absolutely have to pass today an act that will make it easy for all these people to repay themselves by remembering them and never forget how much our ancestors have suffered because of it, just because they are Serbs. We have a chance to discuss it today and we'll talk about it. Serbia today is no one's colony, as it was before 2012, when we were not allowed to mention anything here in the Assembly today we can speak freely and freely. Once again, we from the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children" will vote for all proposed laws, precisely because they are designed to help improve all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6410	Thank you. Now the word has been given to the People's Messenger Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6411	The Honorable Chairman, respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, I will speak of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Museum of Victims of Genocide, because the previous law, too, is what the people said, and we need to repeat, brought back in 1992, and since then no authority has taken it. So, these changes and additions to this law will allow efficient, fruitful and immeasurable work of museums. The amendments and additions of this law testify, that's one more thing, about the proper approach to memory culture, and about that we've been listening to here in the Assembly all day today, which is an extraordinary thing. Look at that difference. The previous authorities have never spoken in this assembly about the culture of memory that has been introduced since this power was back nine years. So we're talking about a proper approach to memory culture now, about what? And to the genocide of the Independent State of Croatia over the people of Serbia. In NDH, a triple genocide was committed, first, on Serbs as primary victim, then at the same time a holocaust of Jews and, of course, a genocide of the Roma. The establishment of a culture of memory, memory and feelings of a people who carry the experience of the Second World War genocide is unusually important. It's not just about memory, it's about feeling, it's about feeling. Our memories and feelings are both individual and shared. By 2012, the basis for me to say cultural memory and memory of genocide in NDH was designed, i.e. it was not done, but it was designed and determined by a small group of people, mostly members of the false intellectual elite, etc. A car driver. This group grew and imposed a culture of oblivion, i.e. Some kind of blindness. The culture of memory we define as keeping consciousness of continuity and keeping the rest of the past. On the contrary, the regime until 2012 imposed discontinuity, obliviousness and culture of indifference towards the past. Until nine years ago, this congregation and this country have increased since the Srebrenica genocide story. That was on the Sunday level. So that's all there was to talk about, it wasn't allowed, like maybe at the time of communism. It was not allowed to talk about genocide against Serbs in Jasenovac and the Jews and the Roma, but the genocide in Srebrenica was talked about and even certain decisions were made in this assembly. The 20th century was one of the most traumatic periods in human history, and of course in the history of the Serbian people. The 20th century carries with it deep moral and ethical questions about the degree of general civilizational development of people and humanity, simply when possible, be careful, that in time, in decades, let's say, I'll observe three out of '29. Until '52. that in decades of great scientific discoveries on the scene of history somewhere in the middle of that period, the pillars of Nazism and fascism and uprising as their specific form. We remain asked how it was possible for only two decades before the first flight into space to begin genocide in '41. In those decades of great scientific discoveries of penicillin, neutron, nuclear fission, magnetic resonance about chromosomes and DNA vaccines against polio, so in that period, in the middle of that period of discovery that I mentioned, a Quislinian formation of the state of NDH, in which conclogos killed 700,000 Serbs, Jews and Roma in inexplicably inhumane ways. I think the Serbs are Slovenian. One ambassador recently said that Slovenians, Jews, Roma were killed, which is partly true, but we Serbs have, we know our name. We were Slovenians and once we were just that 1,000 years ago, maybe, now we're Serbs and we have to say, there's no reason to hide who was the main victim in Jasenovac. Unfortunately, the communist authorities and we heard about it here, these were great discussions of my colleagues from the party, meaning the communist authorities of Yugoslavia on behalf of the false brotherhood and unity, because it was completely false, did not initiate the procedure for genocide in Jasenovac and to be officially declared genocide. It then became the basis of oblivion, unculture, amnesia about the ethnicity of most of the victims of Jasenovac. Today is the basis of auditism, a false interpretation of history, which seeks to declare the victim a executioner and a executioner. That's why President Vukic said the other day: "Ours is that we don't hide the truth, it's our place to talk about it openly, not to let that truth win. No wonder in our region we attend the day-to-day end of facts and attempts to complete the end of history, but Serbs will not be silent and will not be courting." President Vukic says: "I am proud to lead a generation that will protect peace, but will not bow down. Serbia today rests on reason, thanks to it, knows that its size must be found in its own, not in other people's courtyards, that growth, progress, roads, investment, free trade is the only answer that carries life. Every other answer is the path of repeating history." We from the SNS, as well as the citizens of Serbia, are proud to be led by a countryman who protects peace, who will not bow his head, who will not forget, who cultivates a culture of memories and feelings. And that, among other things, makes Serbia prouder, stronger, more dignified than it has ever been in the last 100 years. On the eighth of May, the other day, in 2021, a day of memory of the genocide in Jasenovac, at the Nazi NDH was marked. President Vukic said in Gradina about a culture of memories: "The culture of memories of those who do not have, it cannot have power for the future and memory either. The only obstacle to these crimes must never be lost again." Since Alexander Vukic has been in power for the past nine years, Serbia has been successfully fighting forgetting the genocide of the Serb people. In the coming years, there should be even greater resistance to this idea and in the country by autoskillers but, God forbid, in both the region and that memory culture that has already been grown by Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia. That is why the great resistance of our neighbours as well as our dear auto-skillers came across the brilliant Serbian film "Dara from Jasenovac". I am personally concerned about the indifference towards the Serbian people and our victims. So let me just tell you this. The world cares and talks about the fate of Jews, about the genocide of World War II. That's humane. The world also cares about the fate of the Kurds, the Palestinians, the Sudanese, the Kutu, and that's fine. The world cares about the genocide of the Turks over the Armenians and that is a noble concern, more than a hundred years ago and that concern is justified. It's been open for a long time now about genocide over North American and South American natives. For half a century and more, the world has been worried and should be concerned about the genocides of pogroms and famines in Africa. The world also cares about the people we only heard about the Rojos in Myanmar the day before. All these concerns are praise, praiseworthy and should be our concerns. However, I may have missed it but I did not notice worldly concern for the fate of the Serb people. I didn't notice the world's pain, it's the German word "veltschmmertz" for us Serbs, and it's not that we didn't get hurt. We've suffered under the Turks for 500 years. In the 18th and 19th centuries, scientists such as Dimitri Bogdanovic, who wrote the capital work "The Book of Kosovo", say Turkish pogroms in the 18th and 19th centuries took the character of genocide. We suffered in World War I on the side of freedom, more than a million dead. We suffered in World War II again on the side of freedom and anti-fascism, almost a million dead. We suffered in Jasenovac, at the Nazi NDH 700,000 dead. We also suffered in the crimes of New Ustasha Croatia in the 1990s, and we also suffered under NATO crimes the day before and under bombs. No one in the world, honoring the exceptions, like the great Nobel laureate Peter Handke, has shaken much over our fate. We are, we Serbs are in the back of twenty years victims of Western propaganda of machinery, spinping stereotypes, prejudice and demonization. With Russians and Muslims, we're the ideal bad guys in Hollywood and White World movies. We have to ask ourselves and the world why we are as a people of the victims of the double arches. I mean, if our blood isn't red, if we're not beautiful, good enough and desirable, if our children aren't children of this world, if we've done what we've done to the world. Did we crucify Christ? Did we kill Gandhi, Marty Luther King and Kennedy? Did we invent conclogor and gas chambers? Maybe the world thinks we dropped atomic bombs on Japan? Maybe the world thinks we killed millions of souls in Korea, Vietnam, Iraq and Afghanistan? Why do our sacrifices and sufferings cause indifference? The Republic of Croatia needs to accept historical and any other responsibility for genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II, in Ustasha NDH, including Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia does not want this because it does not have the strength to face its own responsibility and to complete the denaciation process. Croatia does not want this, because the country that rests on genocide went too far to process revision, history, the glorification of the constitution. Croatia wants this because it would then be obliged to pay within a reasonable period fair compensation to the victims of genocide and their descendants. One of the most shaken testimonies about the crime of genocide in NDH is certainly the poem "Jama" of the great Ivan Goran Kovacic, inspired by the crimes of Ustasha. Poema was usually created in 1942, a year before the death of the poet himself who was killed in 1943 by the Quislins near Foca. “ The blood is my light and my darkness, and the blessed night they have excavated in me with happy vision from the pits of the eyes. Only through the fingertips are the drops warm and thick which the executioner finds even more bitterly with the pain of a double that stares – that the dagger in my neck stings sweeter. And I took the pleasure of this blood, and I kept my eyes shut like tears. “ Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6412	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6413	Thank you. Dear Minister, dear colleagues. The memory of genocide victims is essential, especially if we consider that the Serb people who paid an extremely high price for freedom in the 20th century, very long, very little talked about Serbian victims, for some likely supranational or political reasons, and probably because it was not too popular at the time to talk about Serbian victims. And there is no dilemma that as a people, it cost us a lot in the late 20th century, and nothing has changed in modern history since the beginning of the new century. It continued with silence to this extent that it was even unpopular to say the word "nato crime" but many used the word "intervention", wouldn't someone accidentally get angry at them, and even go to the fact that the former president of Serbia, apologized for everything in Croatia, and at a time when the criminals from Jasenovac, Nada and Dinko Sakic were still alive, and not only were they alive, but they enjoyed many privileges from the Croatian state and absolutely no one thought to ask a question - and what are you doing? Are you, again, killing the Jasen victims? All this began to change drastically for the last five six years, first with the way the state of Serbia marked the anniversary of both NATO bombings and the anniversary of the Storm, and especially after the movie "Dara from Jasenovac", which woke up some long-sleeved spirits of the past and discovered some secrets, some of whom thought were buried forever in the Jasenovic pits, and which, above all, I would say, from the ground up to bring down the matrix and stereotype that Serbia was in everything the worst and the last, and that the Serbian people had a fat on the watch, for everything that has happened in the region in the last decades. And it doesn't take much to surprise us that reaction in the region, although the film is certainly not directed against the state of Croatia but exclusively against the Ustasha. However, for all these reasons I mentioned it was to expect such a reaction to exist. What may not be so logical and which should not be logical is that this type of propaganda has one serious support amongst the part of the domestic Serbian media, and unfortunately in the work of opposition politicians. I would remind you that in the days when the Kosovo Albanians announced charges for genocide against Serbia, and the official Croatia promises help in this, I would remind you that we have had MPs here who have also advocated in this parliament that the Serb people are marked as genocide, claiming that genocides have been committed, or that genocide has been committed in Srebrenica and as they have said on behalf of the Serbian state. I will also remind you that many opposition politicians from Serbia often give statements to the Croatian media and talk about how they hope, with the help of Europe or I don't know who, to bring down Alexander Vukic from power, about how the state of Serbia is a dictatorial state and all the worst that comes to mind. I do wonder sometimes, I can't tell the difference between certain opposition statements in Serbia and those that come from Zagreb, Sarajevo, Pristina, and sometimes from Podgorica, because they have the exact same perception of the Serbian state as the worst, least of all, and the country that is responsible for all the bad that happened and, that's the perception that what's up to the state is better for them and they're not really opposition to SNS or Alexander Vukic, but only opposition to the state of Serbia. And I am very proud of that, too, of the way the state of Serbia has spent the past five years treating Serbian victims with the amount of dignity that these subjects, the heavy topics have been talking about, with absolutely no offense to anyone and no disputing and other victims, and looking to the future to fight first and foremost for peace and not for the wars that have been many in these areas. There were a lot of comments just before that concerning the perceptions of the Yugoslav idea and the way it was created and one comment that had bothered me and I have to comment, so he said, that at the end of World War I and at the end of World War II, the same mistake was made with the Yugoslav idea, I can't agree with it because after World War I, there was an illusion here about the common state, the illusion of Yugoslavia, and it didn't arise at that moment as counterpart Rajic said, it came into existence back in the 19th century. Most of the intellectual elite at the time was for the idea, there were many other objective circumstances that affected it. However, after everything that happened in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia after the murder of the king, after everything that was happening in World War II, after Jasenovac, the creation of an independent state of Croatia, the illusion had to go away. It's also possible to make a mistake once, if you make it another time it wasn't a mistake anymore. And when we look at the character of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, it was, it was, it was, it was, and the Serbian people were dominant in it, especially taking care of the merits of the First World War and who fought on the right side and who didn't. And that was all the reason why the Ustashas hated that state so much and why they finally executed the assassination, and why the king, became the first victim of fascism, and none of it happened in the second communist Yugoslavia and, precisely because it didn't bother them as such, because it protected their interests, and under the rug pushed everything that happened to the Serbian people first of all during World War II. And because of this, I am particularly special because Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic launched an initiative that the City of Belgrade was once again a monument to King Alexander Karadjordjevic, a monument that was destroyed in 1946 and not because he was now perfect or infallible or none of it was, but because the state of Serbia today is trying more realistically to look at its history, that he is not trying to from today's corner and today's knowledge, I am talking about something that was more than 100 years ago, and finally because King Alexander was still a regent commander of the First Army, who in the Balkan wars freed Serbia, after 500 years returned to Kosovo, which he shared bread with his soldiers during World War I, and at the end of the war he returned with 45kg of gravely ill. And at least because of this and this contribution as a liberator, I am glad that Belgrade will get that monument, at the same time as I said that the state of Serbia is very different from its past, especially to its victims, which is essential, because if we don't change that principle, and if future generations don't know everything about what happened in the past, there is always a great chance that these things will happen to us again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6414	Thank you. The word is Nevenko Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6415	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, honourable fellow MPs, today we have a draft law on amendments and additions to the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. The aim of these amendments and the addition of the existing law, which was passed in 2009, is to further improve it and, above all, to align certain provisions of it with the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to specify certain terms. The proposed amendments and additions to the applicable law set out basic documents, public employment policies such as the employment strategy, and the action plan. The national employment strategy for the period 2011 to 2020 was adopted for a period of 10 years. And action plans since 2009 have been carried out on an annual basis. With these changes and additions, the strategy is scheduled to be adopted for a period of 6 years while action plans will be adopted for a period of 3 years. These changes and additions define the employment programme as a document of local public policies, which implies that the programme has an action plan to plan activities and follow the objectives of the programme. The units of local self-government will be obliged, based on the Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia, to carry out an evaluation of financial resources for each measure, as well as an annual assessment of the financial impact on which the competent employment ministry will decide to co-finance active employment measures at local level. This will allow coordination and monitoring of the employment situation, more efficient planning, monitoring of activities and analysis of implementation effects. All these changes and additions aim to improve active employment policy measures, thus increasing employment and reducing unemployment. The employment rate is one of the main indicators of the state of the country's economy, too, the unemployment rate is one of the biggest problems. In the past, Serbia has managed to cope with an unemployment problem that was at one point above 20% and has managed to reduce it to a single-digit figure with a tendency to further decrease. This is, above all, the result of the Serbian government's responsible policy in the field of attracting foreign investment and opening factories across our country, as well as the active employment policy measures carried out by the Ministry of Labour through NSZ through various projects and public calls in years after us. In previous years, the National Employment Service has been a real partner to both unemployed and business operators. It listens to the needs of the economy and intervenes in connecting employers and unemployed people on the labour market. Like someone who's a year old from the corner of a businessman, i.e. Employers follow public calls and co-operate with the NSZ, I would take the opportunity to publicly praise the work of NSZ branches Vranje, whose employees have been back-serving and supporting interested employers in southern Serbia for years, more specifically in the Pcinjska Management District. In particular, I would refer to support measures aimed at the private sector, i.e. entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises, both in terms of financial incentives and in organising and implementing various trainings for the needs of employers, prequalification, requalification, measures of professional practice and so on. These programmes encourage employment of more difficult employment categories, such as young people up to 30 years old, women, Roma, financial welfare users over 50 years of age, as well as persons with disabilities, or better said persons with reduced working capacity. I would particularly stress the importance and importance of the self-employment support programme, as well as the incentives programmes for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector in the form of subsidies for job creation. These programs have proved to be very useful, because many have started their business this very way. They decided to enlist in the tumultuous waters of business because at first they received some incentive funds, however small and modest they were. Of course, not all have succeeded, but many have grown from entrepreneurs to successful businesses and serious employers. This means that these programs were real investments that paid off multiple times. These programmes are very important for entrepreneurs and small businesses in devasted areas, as these small business entities have no capacity, no financial power for greater investment, and cannot achieve an incentive for employment on other grounds. I have some recommendations about NSZ programs, I expected the Minister to be here to hear it, but anyway, I'll take them out. First, I think we need to simplify the application process, especially the later course of monitoring the implementation of the programme because, again, the entrepreneurs do not have enough capacity to cope with all the obligations that arise after the implementation of the programme. First of all, I'm thinking of a variety of evidence and tracking programs. I think it can be systemically arranged to be both easier and simpler and more efficient. Secondly, I think that there is a need to increase the budget for encouraging employment and self-employment in the private sector, because when you take one person off the jobless person's record, that person is no longer a burden to the budget, you have permanently removed it. If you haven't permanently downloaded it, then at least for a period of 12 months, and very often and much longer, that face is no longer a burden to the budget, and in fact now it's already bringing money to that same budget that helped to hire that person. Thirdly, I propose that for the devastated and undeveloped areas, subsidies are increased to create a larger number of new jobs. I would like to remind you that over a period of ten years ago this amount per new employee was 300,000 to 10 new jobs, and over ten new jobs, the amount of subsidies per employee was 400,000 dinars. This again for reasons that for small devasted environments as well as my Bosilegrad municipality are not interested in serious investors on the side, and small and medium-sized enterprises are bearers of the development of these environments, so it is very important that we give them the chance that they can strengthen, grow, develop and progress. In the end, of course, I would stress that in the voting day, I would support this very important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-11-0.u6416	Thank you, Mrs. Costadinova. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are no more entries on the lists. Do any of the authorised representatives or anyone who has not used the law of Article 96 want to speak? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 5 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10. I thank you all.
