ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10279	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 65 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 108 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to a search in detail on item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: Marija Obradović, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Maja Macužić Puzic, State Secretary, Miljan Culjkovic, from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. I welcome the representatives of the government present. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Snezana Paunovic, Djordje Milicevic and Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as well as the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. In writing, MPs Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic withdrew the amendment to Article 6. The bill, as well as the People's MP, George Komlenski, to Article 48. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic. The word is proposed by Snezana Paunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10280	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Obradovic, we discussed our amendment at least in one part and when the debate was in principle. The government has decided to refuse the amendment and I respect it, but I simply feel obliged to explain once again why we have come to the idea that as a parliamentary group of SPS we have submitted this amendment. So the amendment was about that, or our proposal was to protect the citizens by education, i.e. By profession, he's a graduate lawyer. Regardless of all the other cumulative conditions that are generally sought for all public officials chosen by the National Assembly, which is that they are citizens, that they are not condemned, that they have a certain experience in the area they are elected for, is sought everywhere and defined, somewhere closer to the defined professional preparation. In that sense, we simply thought it was necessary, necessarily, however you want, to find someone who's a graduate lawyer in the seat of the Guardian of Citizens. My esteemed colleague, Dunja Simonović Bratic, even spoke about having places to set up as one of the conditions and having passed a judicial exam, which would not be less, but more, but we certainly stand at our point of view. In the Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens, the expertise is no closer to defined and we can also gain the trust of someone who is a traffic engineer or an agricultural engineer. With this I do not want to offend anyone, nor to reduce the value of any university or any higher education, but really under the circumstances that the Civil Protection Officer's business is still tied to legal proceedings, we thought it was important first and primarily to know the law or be a graduate lawyer. In its opinion, which rejected our amendment, the government said, among other things, that the Ombudsman, by the power of its authority, points out the mistreatment of the government's authority towards citizens and determines irregularities and illegalities in the work of the administration's authority. We will agree that although the ombudsman's professional service is being formed which must know perfectly the Constitution, the law, minority and civil rights in order to realize that the law is not respected, we still felt that, with all due respect, I say again, other professions, and for the Ombudsman himself, this legal knowledge is important. At the end of the line he must sign every act and stand behind the first positions of his service first and we continue to believe that the manager, regardless of the specific knowledge of human and minority rights, must also have legal knowledge. The intention was to follow the good practice of other states that also provides the authority of the Protector. We will also agree that the authority of this importance and the Constitution of a defined function is the superior authority of knowledge. Of course, we do not exclude at any point all the other references required, nor do we think that they are less important when it comes to the exercise of the public function of the Protector of Citizens, but it seemed to us that too broadly defined professional prepared and that the selection process of the Citizens' Protector could simply slow down. No one can, under these circumstances and under such a law, prevent any art artist who has ten years of experience in protecting human rights through activities in an NGO from competing specifically. It's a serious state function. We have extended the term of office to eight years, if I am not mistaken, the committee amendment leaves the possibility and that the mandate will be repeated. So, first of all, we really thought that it would be better to improve this legal solution in a way that we would oblige the candidate to simply be a graduate lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10281	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10282	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Mrs. Paunovic, for explaining this amendment to an extremely rational approach in explaining, although the amendment was rejected by the government. It is important to clarify even more in detail, you have really given the frameworks in which there is a reason to reject your amendment, but in public this has caused a lot of interest and therefore it is convenient to explain even more in detail. First, I'm going to look at the Venetian principles that were really a serious basis that we were handling when writing this law. Therefore, according to the Venice principles, criteria for the appointment of ombudsmans should be broad enough to encourage a wide range of suitable candidates. It's a quote. So it seems that such a proposal, as your amendment has been, is not fully in line with this standard, narrowing down a group of potential candidates to law graduates. Although many ombudsmen at international level are graduate lawyers, limiting the number of candidates only to lawyers or any other education is not justified. Since Manchester operates through legal measures, it is important that staff, i.e. employees in its office, be properly trained on legal and procedural aspects. For a person who performs the ombudsman's duties, knowledge, experience, moral quality and reputation should be the main, deciding criteria for choice. Simeon is also expected to have other skills than legal knowledge. For example, expertise in social science. The nature of Galactica's work gives priority to lawyers among potential candidates, but formal conditions should not be so restrictive. So that's what the attitude based on the Venice principles is, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to mention a part of the government's reasoning. Therefore, the government has pointed out that the conditions for selecting the Citizens' Protectors are as set out in Article 7. The bill, set cumulatively, should be seen in general and together. In accordance with the provisions of Article 7. The bill, for the Protector of Citizens, can be selected as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who, in addition to the prescribed types and degrees of studies under the higher education system contained in the point of Article 1, has at least 10 years of experience in dealings which are important for the performance of the affairs of the Citizens' Protector and observed experience in protecting citizens' rights. From the formulation contained in Article 7. The bill states that with regard to the conditions relating to the professionality of one person for the choice for the Protector of Citizens, at least ten years of observed experience in the area of protection of the rights of citizens is required. Therefore, the government considers that they are unfounded states that the proposed formulation of Article 7 applies. The bill can choose a person who does not know how the public authorities function or the judicial system, who does not know the legal procedures and all legal opportunities to provide protection to citizens. In addition, the Government indicates that, in accordance with Article 45. The draft law, for the exercise of professional and administrative tasks, educates the professional service of the Protector of Citizens. With regard to the allegations of MPs under which this independent body has major powers, the Government stresses that the institution of the Protector of Citizens, being legally observed, is an institution with typical ombudsman powers which are viewed in the exercise of so-called "the Ombudsman". the external control of the administration in which the Protector does not resolve the rights, obligations and responsibilities of natural persons, but by the power of his authority that enjoys social, political and public life, and his personal integrity points to the mistreatment of the authority of the administration towards the citizens, determines the illegalities and irregularities in the work of the Authority of the administration and addresses the National Assembly and the public in the final instance. The government in particular also stresses that it is a 7th member. The bill prescribed that a person with high moral and professional quality can be selected as the Protector, as well as that the provision of Article 7(1) of the Law is fully in accordance with point 8 of the Venice Principles, which I have stated at the very beginning, that I am not repeating now. So that the criteria for selecting the Simeon should be broad enough to encourage candidates as wide as possible, as possible, of the candidates concerned. I tried to read from the government's explanation and read the Venice principles, so there wouldn't happen to be a misreading. This is, to be said, a slippery terrain, but the application of all the laws that we are making together, you are, above all, acting as MPs in parliament, the application of these laws is a key point that helps us to better assess Serbia's progress on the European path. The bottom line is that all of these laws that we and we refer to within the document that has been confirmed in the Assembly, which is what all committees do, therefore, monitor, and monitor the application of legal solutions and other acts and regulations. So, even after this law, and not much has been said about it in the media, but, frankly, a large number of experts have participated in the preparation of this Bill on the Protector of Citizens, NGOs have also been involved, the public is interested in this Bill on the Protector of Citizens, a large number of consultations and with the European Commission, i.e. with SIGME experts, it is a team of experts who assesses proposals for the European Commission of different legal acts, therefore, a very wide range of people who have worked to prepare this text and it is no wonder that there are such a small number of amendments to this bill, because we have really tried to deliver the best form of this bill to parliament. Of course, we're going through a regular procedure. So the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law in Serbia is the past. We go to regular procedures, respecting all those requirements addressed to Serbia for it to be better, more successful and better assessed on its path to European integration. This also shows this latest report on Serbia's progress which we have recently received, where we have indeed been assessed positively, where all the praises have been addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia and other institutions that help Serbia really move forward. I hope that the upcoming elections, which are scheduled to take place in April next year, will indeed silence all those who have negatively assessed the legitimacy of this Parliament, the composition of this parliament and that the results of the next elections will introduce some of the opposition parties that are now off-parliamentary. It would be good if they had all the anger and dissatisfaction they show on the street and led astray by a good number of people in Serbia, saying that Serbia is not going a good path, I hope that they will all be brave enough and smart enough to sit in the assembly benches, because parliament is the only place where you can show that your policy and your policy proposal is much better than the one proposed by the ruling majority. You, Mrs. Paunovic, as someone who has been in parliament for a long time and who has passed various stages and different compositions of parliament, are well aware of the importance of a strong assembly debate, in which we are fighting for a better legal solution that will come out of here. So that is something we will insist on in the future, and I really cannot allow the legitimacy of this Parliament's composition to be questioned. I will fight hard in the campaign, and I hope there will be room after the elections to show that we do not give up respect for the highest principles, rule of law and democratic society. That is what Serbia is, it just seems that we are not loud enough to highlight all the results we have achieved, and you as the ruling majority in parliament, as MPs of the ruling majority, and so are we in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, in the period ahead of us over the past few months, we really need to be louder than we've ever been before, louder in the presentation of arguments, the results of work. This parliament has made a major shift and it needs citizens to hear it. The negative omen that has often been put before parliament in the past year, especially by opposition different tycoon media, is not and cannot be true. It takes all of you MPs every day, I know you do, but we need to be even louder in the next period. Not everything we do, really day and night, seven days a week, because a lot of us didn't have a vacation, but we don't have weekends, and I'm not gonna let anyone with a mockery look at everything we've been doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10283	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully support the government's position and the position of Minister Obradovic, concerning the non-acceptance of this amendment, for several reasons. At first glance, it seems a logical proposal for the Citizens' Protector to be someone who is a graduate lawyer, but when the matter is a little bit broader, then it is seen that the government and the Ministry of State Administration's argument and local self-government are still much wider and that the government has seen this situation better than they have done, with all due respect, the applicants of the amendment. First of all, what is important to say, we in Serbia, and so do many other countries, introduce the institution of the Protector of Citizens through the law, therefore, in some way through a political decree, but the original Simeon, the Swedish Heroes, came about by chance, as the first minister's institution in Great Britain was accidentally created. So, in Sweden he wasn't introduced by law, he was introduced by accident. In the 17th century, Sweden fought Russia and Swedish King Carlo fled to Turkey. Since he was not in Sweden, or in his own country, he appointed the man who represented him, it was his trustee and original, therefore in the Swedish language, the word ombudsman did not mean the protector of citizens, but the trustee, commissioner, representative, someone who exercised power in the name of the king until the king returned and when the king returned the Ombudsman no longer performed that function. Sweden only with its 1809 Constitution, so after about 100 years since it came into existence, but I say by chance, the institution of Simeon in Sweden due to wartime opportunities, it has normed it as someone who needs to protect citizens' rights from what is called a bad administration, a small administration, so from various chickings, a lack of respect for deadlines, etc. What Minister Obradovic said is absolutely correct. The citizen's protector, however much his powers are, he doesn't have the essential measuring authority, which is to annul administrative acts, however illegal they are. Therefore, it can point to the authorities of the administration for illegal or non-discriminatory treatment, it can point to their failure to comply with the rights of the party in the administrative procedure, but it cannot reach a solution that annuls the administrative act. This can only be done by the second-degree authority of the administration, i.e. by the court in the administrative dispute. In our case, it's the Administrative Court. Why is this a good government solution so that the Guardian of Citizens can also be someone who isn't a lawyer? Because the bill does not prohibit a graduate lawyer from being the Protector of the Citizens, it enables someone else to be in addition to a graduate lawyer, but who has experience in the field of protection of human rights and freedoms. You have many examples in the world of countries where ombudsmans are people who are not lawyers, but who do great work, who are people of authority, who are top intellectuals, who are known in public as people who have fought for human rights and freedoms, who affirmed the principles of a democratic, free society and such ombudsmen have proved to be much more effective than people who are simply graduated lawyers, but anonymous to the general public. Because when you choose a man who is famous to everyone, who may not be a graduate lawyer, but is a man of enormous intellectual and moral authority and dignity, then in the state administration you have some kind of fear of not making a mistake, because he's going to have to deal with one of those people. Now, we can formally say, "I should be a graduate lawyer, I should name a man who's a graduate lawyer, who may not be a bad lawyer, but he's completely anonymous, he has no authority, he may have worked in an authority of the administration, but citizens don't see him as someone who really in the right sense can protect human rights and freedoms. So what the government suggested is good. So the government has left the possibility of choosing a graduate lawyer for the Guardian of Citizens, but it can also be someone who is not a graduate lawyer, but has that kind of authority, that is, that kind of charisma has such human, moral and intellectual qualities that make him worthy of being an institution that is called in the right sense of that word, the Protector of Citizens. So, in practice, be the Protector of the Citizens, not just on paper. We had one, and that's one of the reasons why I don't think your amendment should be accepted, the paper Protector of Citizens, Sasa Jankovic. Why do I say paper? The man fulfilled this condition you're talking about, he was a graduate lawyer. Now I ask all my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and whose human rights did he protect as a graduate lawyer? Is there a Serbian citizen who was helped by Sasa Jankovic? So Sasa Jankovic was so reluctant to the National Assembly that when we dealt with his reports on the resolution board, he did not want to come, but sent his deputy, because, my God, he is the Majesty, what does he have to do in the National Assembly with the MPs and that they question him why he wrote something in the report and ask him – and sorry, which citizen did you help and in what specific administrative procedure? I read his report, as other MPs read. You know what he was doing in those reports, the one who was a graduate lawyer? Why, for example, Alexander Vukic said that at some press conference, so why did he say that tone, so why did he address the journalist the way he addressed him? Is that the job of the Protector of the Citizens? The man entered the political arena completely and completely forgot his job, and his job was to protect the rights of citizens when they were threatened by the illegal or non-insular conduct of the administration's authority. So, when you choose a graduate lawyer as Protector, it's not an absolute guarantee that he'll do his job well. The typical example is Sasa Jankovic. The man was a lawyer, but did he do his job well as a Protector of the Citizens? It's not. He wanted to get out of the position of the Protector of Citizens, and he eventually did, running for President of the Republic. He is his position as Protector of the Citizens, therefore, of the state authority, I would like to point out in particular, often in public, the notions of independent regulatory bodies with state bodies are being pursued, the Protector of the Citizens is no regulatory body, it is a state body, which does its work in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Sasa Jankovic wanted to deal with politics and he did not protect anyone's human rights except his own. And the only thing he did in public as the Protector of the Citizens is promote himself, as someone who needs to succeed Alexander Vukic. And the more time went by and the closer the presidential elections in 2017, the less Sasa Jankovic became the Protector of Citizens, and the more the opposition candidate for the president of the Republic. So we have a very negative experience with people who are formally graduated lawyers, at the position of the Guardians of Citizens, and essentially they have proved to be pure politicians. That's what you saw. When he lost the presidential election, he withdrew very quickly from the position of the president of his Free Citizens Movement and his fate is more or less familiar to you. There's one more thing that's very important, that's what my colleagues were talking about yesterday. I want to put that subject on the agenda today. It seems logical that the Chief of Staff is an officer. It seems logical that the Chief of General Staff is general. It seems logical that the Chief of Staff is someone who is the best officer in Serbia's Army. That's all logical. And was that how it was in practice? It's not. We had one man, who I don't think lined up the platoon in his life, let alone the battalion, let alone the brigade, about the Corps that I don't even speak, the platoon didn't line up. Just thanks to the fact that he was weighed down by former Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic he became Chief of Staff, and in doing so he obtained, by several acts, in one year, a man became, I think, a Lieutenant General, a colonel general for a very short time. Essentially, he had no idea about the army, but he was doing one job for the military, which was very harmful to the defence power of the Republic of Serbia. He destroyed our army, nearly destroyed it, and some Serbian soldiers remained until he became the defence minister of Alexander Vukic in 2012, and until in the coming years we began to acquire the most modern weaponry and now the Serbian army is a respectable military force of course, there is no intention of attacking anyone, but it can defend the state of Serbia and it can defend the Serb people from aggression in the countries of the former Yugoslavia in which he lives, and in some of these countries the position and the Serbian people is today extremely, extremely difficult. I'm talking about Zdravko Ponos. The man was a general and now formally meets the requirements of being Chief of General Staff. I think it was the worst chief of staff in the modern history of the Serbian army. I don't know if there's a man who's done more damage to his own army to which he was an operational commander, the Commander-in-chief is always the President of the Republic, but he's as Chief of Staff, the operational commander of the entire military force, I don't know if he was any worse than he was in such an important position. You're in the same case right now with the Protector of the Citizens. It doesn't mean that if someone is a graduate lawyer, it's by definition someone who's going to be able to manage human rights in practice, especially when it comes to the work of the government's authority. We had the same thing in the Serbian army. Yesterday, N1 television, I feel free to say, lied to Serbian citizens, they called it that, a SNS MP told Zdravko Ponos that he was a bad chief of Serbia's general staff and that he destroyed Serbia's army. Why do I say they lied? Because that's not what the SNS MP said first, I'm talking about Mrdić's Coal. He asked a parliamentary question yesterday, so they wouldn't say his name, but it was clear from the context that it was thought of fellow Uglješ Mrdic who said Zdravko Ponos had destroyed Serbia's army. And then N1 television brutally disagrees with Serbian citizens and says -- if that's what one SNS MP said. He did say it, but there was one man who said it before him, and that was the man who was in Vuk Jeremic's party until yesterday, Nikola Jovanovic. That's what they forgot to tell Serbian citizens. If anyone knows Vuk Jeremic and if anyone knows Zdravko Ponos, so I guess they know the man who was their closest associate by yesterday, but N1 TV in his good manner to deceive Serbian citizens and that he campaigned against the President of the Republic of Serbia for 24 hours, against the SNS, only one small detail was left silent, that Zdravko Ponos, as the destroyer of the Serbian Army, spoke the first Nikola Jovanovic and said something else, said something that Ugljesa Mrdić did not say, and what casts a new light on Vuk Jeremic and Zdravko Ponosa, he said – what kind of party to the right center, as the National Party Vuk Jeremic openly advocates for Serbia's entry into NATO pact? What kind of right center is that? The man openly said Vuk Jeremic and Zdravko Ponos advocated Serbia's entry into the NATO pact. And don't lie to the devil, Zdravko Ponos, I think so much of his political mind and intelligence, confirms everything Nikola Jovanovic said. The man in the media says in public – we plan to come to power by asking the Americans to bring us to power. What's the price of it? I think colleague Paunovic is quite clear to you, the price of it is to give up Kosovo and Metohija, to give up Republika Srpska, to stop working to strengthen Serbia's army. That's the price we'll all have to pay, if by any chance Vuk Jeremic, Zdravko Ponos, Dragan Djilas and the whole group come into a position not to win power, but to get close to the authorities. Here, it's their scenario, that someone else installs them here in power, and they will, of course, do all those jobs that are in the interest of some of the great forces. We watched that scenario, the film was already watched by Serbian citizens, but with that story it ended in 2012. I hope that the next elections, which will be held in the spring, will not allow the citizens of Serbia to return to power the same ones who have done all these things to us like Vuk Jeremic, like Zdravko Ponos, like Dragan Gilas and similar to them. I said the other day, when we signed an agreement with these seven opposition parties that we had dialogue with without the intervention of foreigners, I said something that looks amazing at first glance, which is that the elections for the SNS next year will be very difficult and presidential and extraordinary parliamentary and elections for the Belgrade City Assembly. It seems amazing at a time when the SNS, now according to the latest public opinion polls, has about 58% of the support of Serbian citizens, but don't forget the fact that the opposition, so at least they say about themselves, is well-organised, that they have great candidates, that they have great intellectuals who support them, that they have help from abroad and what all Serbian citizens see, have a lot more money than we do. Well, Dragan Gilas now has in his account, a private account more money than the entire SNS, he's one man as an individual, as a physical person. So next year's election will be very difficult for the SNS. They have in their hands and the media. We didn't have it in 2012, we didn't have it before. Look, they now have in their hands most of the electronic media, most of the printed media, are present on Instagram, are present on Twitter, are present on Facebook, which is all legitimate, but this divulges their lies about being discriminated. Well, no, most of the media works for Dragan Gilas, most of the media works for Vuk Jeremic, most of the media works for Zdravko Ponos and most of the media works against Alexander Vukic, against the Serbian government, against everything we've all worked together and we've done from the government since 2012. To what extent are these people unscrupulous? Well, that was seen yesterday at a press conference. When the Serbian government promotes vaccination, when we promote measures to prevent the spread of the pandemic, it attacks N1 TV as we endanger human rights and freedoms. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said at a press conference -- well, you on N1 television said you shouldn't vaccinate citizens with that third so-called. The booster dose of the vaccine. Says Jacqueline Tatalovic in the middle of Serbia's prime minister's government to lie. Okay, she said she's lying and the prime minister is showing news from N1 where it's said, as it were, it's not always the third happiness in terms of not the third dose of the vaccine guarantee that you won't get this severe disease. If we hadn't put in measures, if we hadn't secured the vaccines, then we'd be attacked, where your vaccines are, and you don't take measures, people die, people get sick. You remember at the beginning of the pandemic what they said - what kind of Chinese vaccines, what kind of Russian vaccines, so we don't need that, we just need to get vaccines from the EU. By being members of the EU, they received a vaccine of approximately six months with a delay compared to us who are not EU members. If we had listened to Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Ponos and the so-called experts of doctors, who would treat people with animal medicines, the question is when to start vaccination in Serbia. You have another example, when you formally have a graduate lawyer in your position, and he's deliberately working against his country. That's what I want to remind the citizens of Serbia. Do you know who gave the idea to Vuk Jeremic who's not a graduate lawyer? He says he's a master of physics, but he doesn't know the Second Newton Law, so it's a big question if he's even a master of physics, but let's just say he is. The idea of Vuk Jeremic to ask for an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice whether the declaration of the so-called Kosovo Assembly in February 2008 on the declaration of independence is in accordance with international law? The idea was given to him by a graduate lawyer, Borko Stefanovic. He told Vuk Jeremic, and at the time he was the political director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it was approximately the deputy minister, to translate into the language of ordinary people, so he told Vuk Jeremic -- let's address the International Court of Justice, and he knew he had to know as a graduate lawyer, he had to know as a man who came from the world of diplomacy, that judges in the International Court voted in a similar position of their country on a matter. You take a list of judges of the International Court of Justice, you take a list of countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence, there is political mathematics clear. The decision of the International Court of Justice was known in advance and, unfortunately, was negative for the Republic of Serbia. The International Court of Justice said the declaration of Kosovo's declaration of independence is not contrary to international law. Who's to blame? Well, one legal expert Borko Stefanovic and Vuk Jeremic who listened to him. Why did they do that? Because they wanted to, because they view Kosovo as a ballast, as a burden, as a problem. What do we need that burden for? We should enjoy life. You have seen the correspondence between Vuk Jeremic and Rocen - if you have provided 25 rooms, I did not provide 26, so great, here we come, we are mother in Serbia-Montenegro. It was the Djukanovic and Tadic's diplomacy during Serbia-Montenegro. And then they wanted to remove the burden, as they say of Kosovo and Metohija, from their backs and from Serbia's backs and then transferred it to the International Court of Justice. Then they said -- well, here we are, fighting for Kosovo, but what we should do now when the International Court of Justice said that this is not contrary to international law and made the state of Serbia, the Government of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, an ugly problem, because now wherever you present the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, Albanians and their mentors wave to you, as a red scarf, a decision, namely the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice, that the declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija in 2008 was not contrary to international law. So, Mrs. Obradovic, I support your position. He doesn't have to be a graduate lawyer. It is no guarantee that he will be a good protector of human rights and freedom, but he must be an honest man, he must be a man of authority, he must be a man of integrity, he must be a man who will not deal with day-to-day politics, and especially with a party policy, and whose interests the citizens and interests of the state, because he is a state body, not an independent regulatory body, will be more than anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10285	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. There's a lot of interest in this debate. The first word is Vice President Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10286	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President with fellow Members, the Honorable Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the honourable citizen and citizen, as I pointed out during the debate in principle, and today, by looking at these amendments, we can reaffirm that this law, or the proposal we had, with amendments and additions, has been done very well. That is why there has been a very small space for proposing, i.e. delivering significant amendments, which will certainly make it easier for us to end both debate and in particular, but also to give full support in the day of voting to vote in this law. It is certainly good that we have received these amendments, even if there were few, even though most of these amendments had the technical nature of intervention, where we have certain ones that have been accepted, some that have been rejected, some that have been withdrawn. This amendment which we are currently considering, as regards the conditions for the appointment, that is to say, the choice of the Protector of Citizens is by its nature interesting and significant and certainly deserves this debate for that reason. If at first sight we hear the proposer's explanation, it seems logical because the Citizens' Protector is dealing with rights. Then it is understood that he would be elected, that it is good to be a lawyer and it is probably good to be a lawyer, but the Guardian of Citizens is much more than a lawyer. In the idea of the very idea of establishing this institute, the Institute of the Protector of Citizens, he is someone who deals with the legal problem of protecting the rights of citizens who may be threatened by individuals or the state authorities themselves in the event of a violation of the law. However, the idea of the establishment and existence and functioning of the Protector is much more than that. The public defender, I initially mentioned this and in the debate in principle, is actually a kind of factor in the state apparatus that needs to protect citizens from the state apparatus. So it's a delicate category, and we have to admit it. We've heard that the Citizen's Protector is actually a state body. He's a state body that needs to protect citizens from other state authorities. So a very delicate position. He's part of a state-run apparatus that has a role to play to protect citizens from violating the law of a state apparatus against any possible violation of the law. It's a very sensitive category. This indicates that it would not be good to limit itself exclusively to formal conditions. If we narrow down, and what was the intensity of this amendment, if we narrowed down the possibility that we had a wide range of quality bases in the candidate for the Protector of Citizens, there would probably have this form, to say, a lawyer, understandably right, deals with law, that's it. However, what experience we have so far has proved that the quality of the performance of the work, the function of the Protector of the Citizens did not depend on his legal knowledge, especially what the Protector of the Citizens, and last time we pointed out, although we languageically pronounce him in a single, implying that he was a single person. So he's an institution, he's got his teams. First of all, those teams are lawyers. So, in the event that he is not a lawyer, he will not be deprived of the legal knowledge he has through his teams in terms of analysis, the development of all the cases he deals with. That's why it's good to have a wider basis for running, and to actually indicate that the accent on the quality of personality, on the format of personality in ethical terms, of course, and educational. Of course it's desirable that they have legal knowledge. It's all desirable, but not crucial and not only important. I was privileged, under allegations, to testify from time, experience, the former Protector of the Citizens in the period 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 as a party addressing the Citizens' Protector. My experience at the time is very embarrassing in what I got from the Guardian of Citizens who, as we heard and know, was a lawyer. I even had a meeting back then, I think it was 2010, with the then Citizens' Protector. I've had a meeting, asking to be explained why on a massive request for the Citizens' Protector to side with the citizens, because you know what was going on between 2007 and 2010. It wasn't just a violation of the rights of citizens, it was a brutal abuse of the power of government, and it was those of the most drastic, police, gendarmes, justice and other levers and the structure of the power of the authorities who then decided to deal with one community, or representatives of the community, because they didn't always want to serve politically, because that power in some earlier elections that it received thanks to hundreds of thousands of Bosniak votes in Sandzak wanted to actually punish its voters after two mandates, or not to fulfill their promise of authority, and then, like all the frauds, I am obliged to argue with the one I owe him, and then I won't pay him a debt, well, he can't. This was then and certainly the members of that community through the Islamic community institution addressed the Citizens' Protector who had not officially responded, did not respond, did not take what was necessary to protect the community, which was his obligation. When I asked for a meeting and to find out what it was about, I got the next answer. I'm partly grateful for that honesty, but it actually says that we haven't had an adequate Protector of citizens. He said you're all right, but I can't help you. I'm saying, I know you don't have the mechanisms to force the government to comply with the law, but the minimum of what is your obligation is to answer, to take what is in your jurisdiction to answer and say that the rights of those citizens are being violated. Well, I can't do that. So that's what I'm told, as you would say, to the face and of course that, even though we still had problems until 2012, we never spoke to the Citizens' Protector again, he didn't exist to us because we made sure that he was one fiction, one ikebana, one mask that was set up to play the role of the Protector of Citizens, and that he actually acted on the authority's orders. So, if he hadn't been on the side of the citizens, he was already on the side of the government, that regime. So that's what we really need to keep in mind. So the key reference of the Guardian of Citizens is the ethical reference, below one. He must be, having an ethical capacity to be loyal to his mission and the role he owes. This means that, in addition to the formal conditions that involve general higher education, it must primarily have such a human character, it must be such a human character that it can defend itself against power, because in order to defend citizens it must have the capacity to defend itself against the ruling system. In that experience, where I testify, therefore, from the events inside, he had no capacity to defend himself. He didn't have enough authority, no credibility, no human character to defend himself against a government order. So that is the essence of what is the expectation of the Guardian himself. Therefore, prior to the conditions, the formal narrow conditions of the type of high professional preparation, so those essential conditions are key or even more concrete criteria are key. So, ethical quality, personality character, credibility, authority, one word personality format that can actually be someone who needs to be next to the brake when the train's government gets hit. The role of the Protector of the Citizens is to put the curve down before the curve. He's the one who can't take a nap or get his concentration down. Why even the idea of a Protector of the Citizens? Because the nature of the government is such that the government hits the head, power is the center of power and it's very difficult... In order for someone to be saved from their own authority, it must be, personally, a form of personality in a characteristic, ethical sense, in terms of consciousness so strong that simply the government doesn't drink it. On the contrary, there is no one who is not intoxicated by authority. It's just a matter of how much. Those who defend to intoxicate or intoxicate the authorities take down, break, away from the mission, they're in trouble. It's no big deal, but it's important that you stay up there, above the government. It's now a question of the form of rulers. We can do this through history and analyze it. Maybe to evaluate this current system early, it's never estimated without a time distance, but that's what we all need to know and that's the problem of power that you have in your hand and smart power makes brake mechanisms. Smart government is like a smart driver who has a strong car, has six thousand cubes, can drive 300 per hour, but doesn't allow every time to drive you 200, 300 or 180 an hour. Smart driver knows where to put the gas, knows where to take the gas, and knows where to put the brake. Bad driver is like a kid who took a car from a father, a Porsche or, I don't know, Ferrari, and thinks that driving is holding a wheel and pressing a gas pedal and then two curves go by and thinks every other one's because, well, there's a whistle on the wheels, and he's passing the curves. However, a few curves may pass, but one is enough not to pass and experience disaster. That's how it is with power when it's in the hands of those who are unaware of the dangers that the government carries, like that kid's not aware of the dangers of a high motorbike car. In fact, this brake, this braking mechanism, the control mechanism, the speed limit, especially in the curves and parts of the road that don't bear the high speeds, is actually the Twin Protector, and that's the brake mechanism that the smart government says -- that, we choose you, we set you up, you're a state organ, but your role is that when we run into each other, you wait for us. Like us, some MPs who forget how many minutes we have left, and then we owe the MP next to us, and he says, "Please look at the hour, so when I run into you with a nice little elbow, touch me, step on my shoe so I don't run too far." So, the role of the Guardian of Citizens is that, but the problem is if I'm the leader, and next to me, someone who's subservient to me, and then he pushes me, and I get mad at him and I say, "What are you touching me?" You're here to listen to me, not to remind me that I'm running out of time. Now, that's the realisation of the state, the state apparatus and the Citizens' Protector and that leader, the government that wants its warner is a smart and good authority, and I think in this format, the co-worker already understands that, in addition to the arguments that he has in the amendment, there are several arguments on the side that we have a wider base for selecting the Manchester, i.e. the Citizens' Protector, including those conditions and criteria that I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10287	Thank you. Since you referred to that question, therefore, this was the time for you as an authorised representative. There's still time for the parliamentary group. The word has the representative of the proposing Mrs Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10288	Thank you, Vice President. A constructive discussion. The government has rightly rejected the amendment but I am glad that we have submitted it because we have allowed the citizens of Serbia to so far, and I suppose they will only hear how important it is when people who understand what they are talking about are talking about. This part of the focus, the honourable minister, and on your finding, you are absolutely right, all the disputes of this House, all the criticisms referred to this House's call and for this or the reason that we are likable and who we are not, I personally don't have a lot of sensitivity on the subject, but somewhere they fall into the water when we come to a phase to talk in this way that we're talking about, without rough, inappropriate debates, arguments, where absolutely all the predecessors are right. Why, in part, am I right and as one of the proposings of this amendment, was confirmed by a respected counterpart, Martinovic, from the position of Dr right when he spoke about what the Serbian public should have been aware of when we talk about the Citizens' Protector. I do not dispute that the government's position and what's written in the law are more democratic than what this amendment contained. I do not dispute that you are right, but when we wrote this amendment we were guided by a good part of everything that counterpart Martinovic was talking about, which is - what happened yesterday and how we barely got out of it yesterday. When we make legal solutions, when they were brought by some before us, they strictly adapted them to their own needs, leaving them in such a way that they might eventually patch up, and that's not a rough word, all that they lacked in terms of capacity. This authority is more than responsible and this assembly of parliament and this Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in this sense I have no concern about the choice of Citizens' Protectors in our mandate, but I have a legitimate concern though, I fully agree, it is not necessarily a recommendation that if a good lawyer must be a good man, I am only counting on being an expert, so that we do not get to the stage that a bad lawyer, and such will certainly be advised in the way that my colleague Martinovic has painted it in the case of Vuk Jeremic and Borko Stefanovic. It was our fear when we thought about maybe the law should be improved that way. I don't even dispute the fact that it's good to adapt and adapt to the Venice Commission, but what's important to me? And I know that part about you and Sigma talking, adapting to all their suggestions. Me and my esteemed colleagues were guided by the fact that we were in Serbia, we were guided by all those experiences that from the position, you said it yourself, and thank you for that, first of all, long-term experience in politics and in parliament we remember with bitterness and what it looks like when legal solutions are used for private purposes. For this reason we are thinking not of yesterday which is clear as a day, demystified countless times, fully defined what happened, not even today, which is transparent, could not be liked, could be the source that someone has a dose of animosity, but it's infinitely transparent and it's being discussed. The fog is what you said about tomorrow when you reminded the citizens of Serbia, and I will do it, supporting your position to think carefully about who they will give their trust to - the elections are ahead of us. I completely agree that it will be under the pressure of some guy and I understand even that discussion that was happening yesterday on the subject of someone who should be, as you said to a nice colleague Martinovic, I simply can't read it, so I say it's important when a lawyer is more important than when an economist is in these circumstances, when we have one Pride who today sees himself as a potential salvation to Serbia not because he has the ability, but because he counts on support from some who have not once been screened to support that kind of people and bring down the whole system of Serbia under the pretext of one man and one party. Then it will be clear to the citizens of Serbia why one party, in this case of the SPS, does not have much confidence in the possibility that we are not democratic, we are, we are just concerned about the citizens of Serbia that this democracy that has been offered to them on big bells has been extremely expensive. My colleague is absolutely right when he says there are no questions for them that are national, which are sacred. For them, there are only personal approaches. We were always afraid of personal approaches, and we're afraid of today. He's right, colleague Zukorlic, when he says it's necessary to be both a good man and someone who's ethical first of all, but experiences say we haven't always had people like that when the country's potential for influence is great. I recall again, our concern when it comes to the application of this law and the choice of the Guardians in these circumstances does not exist because even about all candidates we will talk as very transparently as we do today about this amendment that is logical for someone completely illogical, but it is a legitimate right and it is a fact and a confirmation that MPs are doing their job, interpreting every letter that has been proposed, trying to explain why we are talking today, not discussing, not the regime of each other. We are discussing that we may have been too close to watching when we said it should be just a graduate lawyer and I respect the government's position and the majority's attitude that this amendment as such is being rejected, but I am infinitely glad that we've separated this time, we've talked in this way not because of those of us in the O.R., we've all known ourselves too well for a long time, we know those who are not in this room, and we'd like to be very much, but because of the citizens of Serbia who in three months will have to do very, or four or five, how many elections are left, that I don't bid, we have to think well about who's going to let them enter this hall, because in this room are passing laws that directly affect the quality of your life. So you have to strictly keep in mind whether you give trust to people who can talk here for hours and talk about how every law advances in your interest or whether you give trust to those who have abused some existing laws, some new ones adapted to their needs and led us to a phase that unfortunately we have had terribly difficult years behind us. In order not to remain in debt first of all, since the most important issue of all issues is mentioned, which is KIM, it is true – first think about who it is that is unequivocally and clearly said – we will never recognise Kosovo's independence and who is across the current ruling majority, those for whom it is not a question, but also as they took the money to sell President Milosevic's head, they took even less money to sell KIM if it fell to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10289	Thank you. Members of the 8th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10290	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Orlic, respected Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course I will support the government's position when it comes to these amendments, because of the arguments we have heard and received. When it comes to the Protector of Citizens, what is very important and what is written in the Law on the Protector of Citizens and what our decade of practice is saying, which is that the Protector does not have the right to pursue politics, nor does he have the right to give political assessments. It also has no right to control neither the government of the Republic of Serbia nor the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, nor the president of the state, nor the Constitutional Court, nor the prosecution. When it comes to former citizens' protector Sasa Jankovic, a people known, and also to us MPs, such as Sale Prangi, he knowingly violated the Law on the Protector of Citizens by analysing and giving daily political assessments of the political situation in Serbia. There are eyewitnesses, we as MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. However, what is very important is that of Article 10a. about the Protector of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia explicitly prohibits this. The article says, "The protection of citizens cannot give statements of political nature." When it comes to former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic, he openly attacked Alexander Vukic on July 31st 2016 because, I quote, "until then he had not formed the Government of the Republic of Serbia", respected citizens, although the legal deadline for its formation had not expired, remained for another month. Imagine why the Prime Minister was then and now the president of the state, Alexander Vukic, was attacked! Also, the former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic, for no reason whatsoever, attacked the Government of the Republic of Serbia under the Law of 9 December 2016, even though he knew well that the Citizens' Protector was not legally authorised to control the work of the Government, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Court, or the Prosecutor's Office. That Sasa Jankovic was involved in politics and not in the protection of citizens' affairs also shows the fact that he later, as you have seen, founded a political party, and preparations for the political party he founded were conducted during the citizens' protector's term. Sale prangi gave up KIM, what the colleague now mentions, and not only him, but also all his deputies, but Sasa Jankovic said as a failed presidential candidate on 3 August 2017, quote: "Serbia is in the interest of Kosovo being in Interpol and thus acknowledging Kosovo's independence," the quote concluded. Thus, our Sale Praggi has already sold Kosovo and Metohija in advance. As a failed presidential candidate, Sasa Jankovic said in 2017, "Serbia has yet to prove that the Gracanica monasterys and Decani are Serbian". This, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, would not say those who, as our people say, "beyond the mind". Sasa Jankovic was the main actor, as you know, in the "Pistol" affair, we often put it here, when in 1993 in his apartment, from his gun without permission Predrag Gojkovic allegedly committed suicide. We have often asked the prosecution of various reports in this high house, however, what was finally concluded, I have received an answer to the asked parliamentary question that all documents on this murder have been destroyed, and you know where - in the archives of the city of Belgrade. Do you know who the director was? You'll be surprised - Branka Prpa. They destroyed the material as invalid. But you should know that in the archivist one decision of a member of the school board is a permanent character. They declared this, and it is known why -- because they freed Sasa Jankovic from crime and all responsibility, they robbed Serbia and he applauded them for that time. Now, that's the point. Sasa Jankovic repeatedly attacked Alexander Vukic that on May 7, 2020, last year, he threatened, believed or not, by liquidating, when he said, I quote: "Vučić, strangers will not keep you, this people will not allow these foreigners to judge such as Milosevic," the quote concluded. As you know, Milosevic was killed in The Hague and Sasa Jankovic threatens the current president in Serbia. Sasa Jankovic is 14. The 09th year, 2021, said that foreign diplomats were recruiting him to join the SNS and thus coming close to Alexander Vukic and taking him down from power, because he has a heart problem, and he allegedly refused. Such and similar, respected citizens and MPs, his fellow speaker Bosko Obradovic made statements when he said on November 17, 2019, "Vucic must have an emergency heart surgery in the United States in order to survive. That's why he needs it as hard as possible, from all available weapons." Why did I compare this? Dear citizens, to see how their actions are co-ordinated from a single foreign centre, with one single goal -- to remove Alexander Vukic's authority at all costs and stop the economic, cultural and international reputation of the Republic of Serbia, and especially the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, whose engine is Aleksandar Vukic. Dear People's MPs, when it comes to Sasa Jankovic, former Citizens' Protector, I will now conclude on him one quote by an academic, academic, Teodorovic, in a people known as the academic "head-tress". Why the headache - because it's always shaking its head with hatred when the name of Alexander Vukic is mentioned. You've seen on TV screens, when the name Alexander Vukic is mentioned, he's been shaking his head out of hatred. The people recognized him and said, "Is that the academic "headquake"? He told Sasa Jankovic, since they were party colleagues, I quote: "Never during my long career in the country and abroad has it occurred to me to make such a mistake in assessing the working skills and moral code as Sasa Jankovic did." Speaking of academics, these days, back four days, he attacked Alexander Vukic, insulting him, calling him a mental patient. It is the academic, respected citizens of Serbia, Dr Teodorovic, who supports violence in our society. Acadamik Teodrovic gave public support long ago to beat the younger Nevena Djuric, an SNS MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Believe it or not, but he said it. Acadamik Teodorovic is president of the Committee on Education of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts and has publicly told parents, quote: "Parents, beat children on time". Mr. Academia, children don't fight, children are raised. You are the chairman of the Education and Education Committee of the most respected scientific institution in our country. If you have at least a little professor morale, and I believe you have, following your publicly spoken statements and recommendations to the pedagogical public of Serbia, I expect you to resign as chairman of the Committee on Education of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. That's at least the minimum you need to do. When it comes to Dr Teodorovic, he insults daily the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vukic, with a eloquent driver, not an academic. On February 23, 2019, he said, quote: “The head of the country is a fan, a hooligan who is rude. ” It's a finished quote. Moral and human gromada, Prof. Dr. Dusan Teodorovic, on the show "360 degrees" on July 18, 2019, and this TV is under the control of Dragan Djilas, said that the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party are primitives, and his colleague Stupar is in the same show that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a barn. Mr. Teodorovic, academic, we may be primitives, but these primitives never, never, will not flee their country when they were bombed in 1999, like you, Mr. Teodorovic. You escaped and hid the tour into the country that bombed us. You came back when the bombing was over. You saved your tour, but you didn't save face. That would never have been done by Alexander Vukic, whom you are criticizing on a daily basis. On March 5th, 2020, Dr Teodorovic said that Aleksandar Vukic was Hitler, and citizens who support him by the Nazis, and thus insulted the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as our respected President of the Republic. Moral gromada, Dr Teodorovic said on July 22nd 2020, pay attention, respected citizens, quote: "Kosovo is not an integral part of Serbia." It's a finished quote. This puts a knife in the back of the state of Serbia and puts it into the traitorous scum of our country. Mr. Academy, patriotism and the morals of one scientist make it great, among other things, because patriotism and morality enthrall science just as the Serbs did, as well as the world's Nikola Tesla, who was here in Belgrade on June 2, 1892, when he came from the United States, I quote: "As you hear and see, gentlemen of the students, I also remained a Serb across the sea, where I do research. Stay the same, and raise the glory of Serbia in the world with your knowledge and work." It's a finished quote. Mr. Teodorovic, I was expecting from you when you escaped during the bombing and returned, that you would say that on your return here to the country. Moral gromada, Prof. Dr. Teodorovic, violently attacked Zdravko Colic just because he sang to the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic at the opening of a private hotel. He thus showed his blindness and hatred for the great artist Zdravko Colic, as well as for his President of the Republic. Moral size, Professor Dusan Teodorovic attacked 23 February 2019, Momčel Bajagić Bajagu only because, believe it or not, he believed that he sang at Vesic's concerts, as he said, took pictures and supported himself, calling us modern barbarians and thus drawing a target at the head of the man who sang for his city, for the city of Belgrade. Moral gromada, Dusan Teodorovic attacked Alexander Vukic just because he was an initiator, believe it or not, raising the monument to Stefan Nemanja. A wise and modern academic said, I quote, "The monument means killing the history of the Serbian people." It's a finished quote. Look at the wonders, replaced the thesis. Is this, Mr. Academy, the level of an academic, that this speaks of a monument that was erected by the founder of the Serbian medieval state? The moral gromada of academics Teodorovic called on, believe it or not, students of elementary and secondary schools on the streets, thereby committing an illegal act, as he tried to politicise our primary and secondary school students. Dr. Teodorovic's moral gromada, I am ending up with a fierce attack on the famous actor Nenad Jezdić, as you saw and heard, just because he appeared at the opening of Milos Veliki highway and was in a delegation that was welcomed by President Aleksandar Vukic. Since the hatred of academics, in the people called the earthquake, he said he would no longer buy the brandy Nenad Jezdić, who is otherwise excellent, and said he would remember it very well, what he did. These days, the intellectual elite attacked President Vukic. Along with academics, among them is Professor Dr. Serbia's Turajlic. Dear People's MPs, can a man morally fall so low, as Mrs. Turajlic, to request the destruction of the monuments to the founder of the Serbian medieval state, Stefan Nemanja? Professor Dr. Serbia's Turajlic said, quotes: "The monument should be torn down and removed from the Sava Square as soon as possible. “ A quote has been completed. She added: “It is such a disgrace for this city, such a shame that generations will bear if the monument does not move away. ” It's a finished quote. Turajlic said: “Is this city, this country, has failed to the point that in the 21st century something so monstrous can be placed in the city? “ A quote has been completed. Dear citizens, honourable MPs, do you know why she said that? Now I'll tell you. She attacked the construction of a monument to Stefan Nemanja because it was erected by a Serb lighthouse. Do you know why she attacked more? Because Stefan Nemanja is the founder of Serbia's medieval Serbia. And not only because, but also because the monument to Stefan Nemanja is the work of a Russian artist and vair. You know why else? Most of all, because it is the initiator of the construction of the monument to Stefan Nemanja Aleksandar Vukic. That's why she attacked. That's why building a monument to Stefan Nemanja is good for the Serbian nation and the state, and God has just attacked it. Dear People's MPs, raising the monument to Stefan Nemanja is the most beautiful gift of the Serbian people and the Serbian state, in the year 2020, I have burned all the victims through 820 years for my Serbian Orthodox faith, the Serbian people and the Serbian homeland. The monument was set up during the Serbian ruler Aleksandr Vukic, a reformer, restorer and modernizer of the Serbian state and nation. So I don't have to stay in debt, look at the wonders, every day the president of the state attacks and Dragan Gilas, in a people called the Giki Mafia. To see, besides, what this gentleman is doing against the state. Gilas met, as you know, in Macedonia on 8 February 2019 with criminals and panty thieves from Miami, where they agreed to fund the opposition and bring Alexander Vukic down and bring him to the government of the Giqi Mafia. To this end, they received certain financial resources to finance "One of the Five Million", with the aim of overthrowing Alexander Vukic, and we have since the beginning claimed that this association would be so-called. to be a political party, as it is. Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic, a political rabbit, otherwise, Đikija Mafia, spit, believe it or not, on the victims of Jasenovac. In the duet, they staged a tweet stating that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is a sick person and that he should be treated, only because he said he saw Gage Antonijevic's movie "Dara from Jasenovac", because he said he was difficult and important to our people who were suffering. This tweeter, as well as the Djiki Mafia and Marinik Tepic, otherwise a pathological liar, was particularly angry that the president of Serbia said that the realization of the film took place on his proposal. Gilas also collapsed on the US ambassador to Serbia, as he said, quote: "The American ambassador will end a mandate that will only make sense if he opens an ethnic Serbian restaurant somewhere in America, as he mainly engaged in a tour of culinary activities and Alexander Vukic," the quote concluded. Gilas Mafia, of 619m euros, is constantly boasting the stolen money of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected citizens, believe it or not, but he said, quote: "I paid 4,000 euros in the hotel one night, and I can pay 17,000 euros for a villa for one night at sea and I paid my shoes 5,000 euros," the quote concluded. Where did you get the money, Mr. Gilas? I know what you will answer to the citizens, that you have earned, and I ask you in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in front of the MPs – whose work, whose work? You, Mr. Gilas, insult the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic on a daily basis just because he builds Serbia on a daily basis. So, visiting on your N1 television, you insulted Mr. President when you said, I quote, "Wolf, you're crazy," finished quote. On the reminder of your journalist, I quote: “Will you stop that? “ You, ” you said, “I will strengthen it” three times, “Wolve, you are crazy, ” finished the quote. You probably said that because he didn't steal like you, Mr. Gilas, 619m euros from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or because daily the president is building with citizens of the Republic of Serbia's school, hospitals, highways, roads, bridges, railways. You, Mr. Gilas, on January 20, 2018, insulted the president only because he went to Kosovo and Metohija as president of the Republic of Serbia and spoke to our martyrs, our perilous people in Kosovo and Metohija. No wonder you said you do not recognise Kosovo and Metohija as part of the Republic of Serbia. You, Mr. Gilas, on 11 April 2020, without any pardons offended President Vukic with the language of a recipient, when you said, quote: "Wolf, you are not normal". Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I could quote for days and nights what this hater of Serbia, a SNS hater, and the most hater of Alexander Vukic says daily. I'm not just a historian, I'm a man who works in pedagogy and writes science papers from pedagogy. I've analyzed the character of Dragan Gilas. Believe me, his character to me, as the people would say, and the face doesn't look like a normal man. And finally, during the time when Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and their cousins spit daily in the state of Serbia, according to the president of the state and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic daily builds up the Republic of Serbia, leads a policy of peace, security policy, a policy of health for all of our citizens, not only Serbia, but in the environment and beyond, economic progress policy, a policy of modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine and symbol of modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our President Aleksandar Vukic. And you know all this about what? For the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10291	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word is made by MP Dragan D. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10292	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not talk about Mrs. Snow White's amendment to being a lawyer or some other professional cook, but I simply want to talk about today's Citizens' Protector who doesn't do his job. He receives 400,000 net wages plus contributions, which is slightly more than the salary received by four travelling MPs coming from the interior to Belgrade. I ask the question - if he is the Protector of the Citizens, is he a citizen? Are his children citizens? And what's to happen for the Guardian to react? His reaction so far, and as far as I can track it, it looks like the protection of millions of euros and the owner of those millions of euros, I don't even know how to mention his name, the professor says it much better than I do, he calls him the Gilas Mafia, he's a bully, he beats his wife and father-in-law, and now Mr. Protector may say he's not a job description, but does he give him a report every month about what he did and where he spent the money of Serbian citizens, and he receives from the salary budget? Furthermore, eight years is a proposal for a new law to be the mandate of the newly elected Citizens' Protector, eight years old, people. So if we have protectors like these two so far, they're killed by fame and money in their heads and they don't know what they're doing or how much damage they're doing to Serbia anymore. Is protecting the sovereignty and integrity of a country when it is silent as the Protector of citizens, and the opposition is lying and sending not only to the European Parliament lies about Serbia, but also to all those who have done so much damage to Serbia. I mean, first of all, this group that's known in the white world, like Vuk Jeremic, is known because the embassy gives him money, but to know that it never happens to anyone, or that someone gets free money, that's what I call the term. So you need to do some service, and their services are known for the damages of Serbia and the Serb people. The citizens' protector must also monitor media statistics and press clipping and see how much their statements have hurt Serbia, which is why we are late to enter the EU, because of the lies the opposition is passing on and sending to those who decide on the fate of Serbian citizens. Look, for me, it was the funniest part of the agenda and the weird - code of conduct of the MPs. Look, if some of us were to reconsider, the average age here is 41, 42 years old, how do we behave, not to say anything bad about these on the street, twenty, ten of them going around Serbia and lying, and we being gentlemen, using fine terms, so we don't get offended. That's what the EU is asking us to do. Well, I know he's asking the EU, and no chapter has been opened in 2021. Not because the government is working badly or the president of the state, we are at the top of all IMF reports, through GDP growth, but not in the EU, chapters are not being opened, because of lies that the media blockade, that they have no media, because of discrimination, etc. What discrimination? Why didn't the Citizens' Protector react when four men, thugs, raided the Serbian presidency building and attacked the president, with their sleeves twisted, to be physically accounted for? Where was the Protector of the Citizens then? Of course, we didn't hear his reaction. Serbia's institutions are working badly, the prosecution is doing badly. The police are investigating evidence, delivering evidence to the D.A.'s office, and then it's on hold, I don't know, five, six months at a time. What are you waiting for, people? If it's the interest of this country to reveal actions, to punish the perpetrator of this crime. Then why keep your mouth shut? Shut up when there's a case and when they're reporting against the opposition, shut up. Well, then let's not talk about the details and the people who have been found at these functions since the time of this yellow company. It's not a company, it's companies that make up daughters of companies and companies. So what's a daughter company? The founder is a company called DS, how many now have these daughters in Serbia and who represents them all? So, they couldn't agree in one party, they couldn't think respected citizens of Serbia, that I'm talking now and that they're my topic, my theme is the Guardian of Citizens. We've had a bad experience with the previous Citizens' Protector, and we know very well how he worked and what he was preparing for and what he was preparing for. He wrote me a letter a few times, I'm making discrimination. What discrimination? Which is my position and position of my political party and most citizens of Serbia, we are not to legalise homosexual marriages, let them do whatever they want in four walls, we are not to adopt children, others, etc. Then I get a warning from the citizens' protectors. Although, as a MP, I am protected by the spoken public word I have immunity for it. I paid 56,000 dinars in fines, the only politician who paid the fine, for attitude and opinion. I'm so born and so raised, people who are with me, it's not ideology in the program, so I'm representing the platform now, etc. So the Protector of the Citizens, the Honorable Minister, destroys everything that you do well. You're doing your job well, I'm not saying it, but users of the resor service you represent, and I know very well what relationships are like. They say, let's not arrest those we have material evidence of, because they are opposition, what Europe will tell us. Well, what did they say to Putin? Nothing. Why don't you say, here's a press conference, when I became head of the office at Boris Tadic's, I had 11,000 and 300 euros. Today, after all these years, I have 690 million euros. Well, if you'd read in a tree, if they were cherry and every cherry was one euro and you had 50 acres of cherry, you wouldn't have made that much money, man. I'm not saying this as a politician, I'm saying this as a businessman. It's a trade of power and influence that he had and who they had. We now, come on, save us, save us these topics, so we don't mention these millions anymore, cut it off, go on your own and apply to the D.A.'s office. I want control. Go to the state auditor, and the state auditor came to me and charged the fine, or four people paid in the municipality, we didn't report what they were called the rodents who were after the flood, I don't know, we had to do deratization and disinfection, 100 grand for it and not bother you. So, it's just a technical matter, not a deliberate budget spending, and these guys can do whatever they want. Now what we expect is that a new code is going back here that we have to wear a bow tie, a handkerchief in our pocket to put and be there as some aunts and say, "Good afternoon, I welcome Mr. Billionaire and his worker, as you are today and so on." To be raised by someone. It's hardly a code that can re-examination all these MPs, I'm sorry to speak on your behalf, but I speak on behalf of the JS Parliament Club and my SPS coalition and on behalf of the SNS, I know what you're thinking. To arrest thieves and bandits, and what will they say... Here, Tanja Fajon, had a different opinion four months ago, when we had an online conference and I talked to her and the other two parliamentarians and told her all of it. She's like, it's politics now, we're not gonna do that. Well, it's all politics. After four months, Tanja Fajon brings all that Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, a lipicaner, said. Well, you see, Professor, the code doesn't work on me. Yeah, a lipicaner. What's a lipicaner? Like you said, pal, I don't insult horses. Look, Tanya Fajon came and brought 16 points, these are the remarks they put here that the difficult conditions are pre-election and so on. The assembly, parliament, everything they asked for. No, he says we won't do it. What do you want? Say what you want. You want the street to get you into parliament? Well, it's hard. It's hardly a street that can get you into parliament. Who else goes with him in Serbia's cities? There is one Branislav Radosavljevic who has been distracted, as he is a witness against me, a mutant, like he is afraid of me, and six times he has been arrested and convicted of stealing a car, so that he will not leave to make a statement. We take off that mask in five minutes, give him his speech, like a logo. Imagine, I from Koncharev, a logo, discover and return the voice and color of the voice to the man. And they brought him in to talk, my professor, and I'm not someone who's scared, etc. They lead him through the towns of Serbia, he types cars by buildings, as he steals cars, it's rightly called established suspicions, meaning, established doubt that he's going to beat up some car next to a building and people have to organize themselves to guard those cars, so that they don't murky and sclumbled the next day send someone to steal those cars. So, ladies and gentlemen, the score from one to five of the current Citizens' Protectors is minus 50. To pay back the money he was getting, because he didn't make that money. Parliament chose the Guardian of Citizens, I don't even know if he was reporting here, and he was giving it, I wasn't there that day. And now, like the thing in the theater, bravo master, come on like he's someone who's gonna help the state, etc. He's deviating the state. Sometimes, he says, "I'm not in charge of things," so sometimes you have to do something that doesn't bother you, and it doesn't bother anyone. Well, I'm just doing what I'm told, so I wouldn't have three toilets in Jagodina, you know, but you do, you fight, you bring investors, you make factories, businesses, I don't have three toilets in the Jagodina, you know, you fight, you fight, you bring investors, you make factories, I don't want to cross paths by the fields, that every village has a home of culture, etc. The infirmary. When we look at who we all support, dear minister, there are three ministers among the ministers, who could not even be porters, to take an severance, don't be angry, you're not, don't defend them, you don't know who it is, because you're gonna get in trouble, then I'm gonna have to deny you. And now that the goods come, says the dispatcher, sign that you've been, and where am I supposed to sign, sign here. You have to show him where to sign, because they don't even know what a Virman is, or what a cesium is, or what a consignation is, what a compensation is, because that's the first time, the terms hear you when they become ministers. I don't want to talk about who these ministers are, but I hope they won't be a proposal for the next government anymore. Finally, I end up, when it comes to the government and the ministry, President Vukic has five plus points, and you have four plus. That's very good, plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10293	Thank you. I've deleted the list at the moment, since it was full. You are all registered, we have recorded the order, but since the minister has the advantage, then I give the word to Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10294	Thank you, Chairman. It's not the parliament's place for jokes, but here's a little joke to make about your story, Mr. Markovic. I have to react when you sharply criticized some of the ministers, because I really think we're a good team and that only a good team can produce the results that were presented yesterday for a year of government work. Of course, I do not dispute your right to give an opinion on the members of the government. That's what your job is, as a Parliamentarian. On the other hand, I say I'm joking, are we going to replace your nickname now on Dragan Markovic – logod? I liked that in the context of this whole story you've told. You sometimes talk in such a funny, ironic tone, but there's a lot of truth in it, and I think the people understand you well. I also liked your cherries and hectare metaphor, when we need to present 619 million dinars that we say Dragan Gilas earned during his stay in power, and that's a really good story. If one cherry is one euro, how many acres do we need, if he's been picking them, how many acres do we need to get to 619 million dinars? It can be a new task, I mean somewhere for the first grade of elementary school, but it's a good metaphor for citizens to really understand what the amount of money is, in fact, the amount of money, more correctly, earned by Dragan Gilas. He says he earned it, and we're at the point that he needs to explain to us how he earned 619 million dinars during his stay in power. Thank you for all these comments. I am pleased that you have been involved in the debate, even if it is so harshly critical, when the Law on the Protector of Citizens is at stake, because these two laws, and the Law on the Protector of Citizens and the Other Law on Free Access to Information, are very important on our path to European integration and one of the preconditions and certainly the reason why we received our commendation in the European Commission Report on the country's progress. And as Minister Joksimovic said, the report is now called actually a country report, not a report on the country's progress. Anyway, it's very important that you as JS show what you think about government proposals when it comes to legal proposals. I think you represent a part of the voters who have been with you strong and long. It's clear who the JS voters are. I hope he will not give up in the support you have provided so far of Alexander Vukic's policy and certainly the Government of the Republic of Serbia, even when there are some people out there who do not like you. Of course, politics is actually the art of compromise. You have repeatedly shown that you are someone who is an artist in reaching compromise. So, we'll work, I think, and in the coming years, if nothing else, then here in Parliament, Mr. Markovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10295	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10296	Thank you, Minister. When it comes to support, we don't change like time in the Bath, in the morning cold, in two hours of heat, in the afternoon it rains, and in the evening it snows. So JS is stable, he knows what he wants, and he knows what he doesn't want. But what we want is for President Aleksandar Vukic to remain president.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10297	Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10298	Thank you. Dear Minister, here is another amendment that you have assessed should be rejected and I do not dispute that right, but simply, to discuss it again, for the sake of the Serbian citizens. We have proposed this amendment that Deputy Protectors are also elected to the National Assembly, which in this legal solution does not exist, by proposing a slightly different procedure so that international standards for which I know you respected them when you wrote the law and you said so. In fact, we have proposed that the Protector call a contest for the selection of his deputies, which may be up to four, and that, from the order of the candidates who meet the conditions, the Protector propose to the National Assembly the candidates that the Assembly will choose and who, as before now, will take an oath. It seems to us that our solution is celibate for at least two reasons, one is the powers that deputies have, and the other is the fact that deputies also enjoy immunity as MPs. Immunity is also enjoyed by many other officials from independent institutions selected by the National Assembly and has a completely different weight and responsibility in the exercise of powers from the work of the Protector, who is able to transfer and transfer to his deputies. We are not questioning the Venice principle, which suggests that the Guardian may have one or more deputies. We are not questioning even the number of four Protectors, because we believe that the narrow specialisation of deputies should make this constitutional institute even more efficient, and the results of the work and accessibility of Omdusman to citizens even more visible and recognizable. We do not think that it would significantly reduce the importance of the Deputys' function if they were appointed by the Protector himself, but we are convinced that their choice in the National Assembly and taking an oath gives transparency to this procedure, and we consider it important and because the National Assembly is considering the annual reports of the Protectors which are essentially made up together by the Protector and his deputies, who are responsible for the trusted areas. These were the motives and reasons why the amendment required that deputies also be elected in the National Assembly in a transparent way. You were right when you spoke with the previous amendment on this attempt, and I will return again to minimize the quality of this Assembly, the quality of these people who are committed to work, who are really recording a statistic that is great for such a short period as the current term of reference, and that is one of the reasons why we thought that Serbia's unforgivable MPs should also talk about deputy citizens' protectors. I say again, we do not think that the Protector will do this and choose quality according to the recommendations the law treats, obligations legally, but we think it would be important for the Serbian parliament to verify those mandates and that they simply take an oath before Parliament's president. What is the desire of all of us together and there I really don't think that the exception, as MPs, to all my colleagues and somewhere a respected colleague, the long-standing coalition partner Dragan Markovic Palma, has given us a slagworth, saying that the importance of a national MP, who has been questioned by a diabolical end, calling these people in a brutal way, unmistakably and unhingedly, must be looked at, not that we are now more difficult here to be some sort of "beach of God" but to recognize the constitutional category of the Republic of Serbia Assembly, to recognize the importance that it is the will of the citizens of Serbia, and not by any decree of any kind in this room of 250 MPs who have received trust. I know that this is often slow and in a way to say that citizens vote leading leaders, and that is true, and there is no dilemma that the voices entrusted to the SPS-JS coalition are the result of absolute trust in Ivica Dacic and Dragan Markovic Palm, but I also don't think that they can at least interpret, let alone challenge the fact that the name of Aleksandra Vukic carries more weight than all members of the SNS who are determined to help him and contribute to his work. Is it a motive to be drawn, humiliated, devised in one way or another? It probably is. Should I allow them the right? No, I don't. That's why I think taking the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as can be said for this legal solution, may not be smart, may not be practical and might be a little helpful for them. It doesn't matter who's calling parliament to Serbia tomorrow. What is certain, and these are many people before me in their discussions, respected colleagues said, is that whoever sits in these benches in all future elections will be decided by the citizens of Serbia, however much someone has hopes, ambitions, promises and agreements that this could happen somehow differently. Perhaps Serbia was deceived once, so it introduced just those who stole works of art and chairs from the street to the Assembly. I highly doubt that Serbia can be deceived twice in this way, as the Serbian people are a wise people. It might be wise, I know that the government gave a negative opinion, but again I am saying that I understand everything that is said in the explanation, but the obligation was, me as a Socialist, to say on behalf of my parliamentary group why I think it is very important that an institution like the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not exempt from making important decisions, and one of the most important decisions is who will be the Deputy Protector of the Citizens, because it is said in a kind, Serbian language, the lawyer of all Serbian citizens, and even those who replace it and those who advise it must be perhaps for the nuance and awareness of their responsibilities more than the Protector himself. Under these circumstances, if you're absolutely right, he should now be someone of enough human quality to be in that place, then advisors are even more important, so the team before, I think, this amendment makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10299	Thank you. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10300	I thank you, dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 9 actually refers to what my distinguished colleague, Snezana Paunovic, has just spoken of, as it has been, of course, under circumstances to accept an amendment on the election of deputies in the National Assembly. The oath, as the colleague pointed out, is a solemn act and a solemn promise that the duty will be carried out in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law. We believe that this act also has an institutional significance, but also that to the very personality of the deputy, this kind of giving public institutional importance, promises should be an additional motive and contribute to the affirmation, the duty it performs. The honor, you must admit, is before the National Assembly, before the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to take and sign an oath that remains and as a permanent document in that solemn act. On the other hand, here we are talking about independent bodies, bodies that report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, bodies that choose, specifically the Citizens' Protector, elects the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we felt it was perfectly logical that, accordingly, the Protector and Deputy Protectors also took the oath, not entering the number of Protectors before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let me just say a few more words about the subject itself, because I think it's of great importance and importance. So we also discussed during the debate on the Citizens' Protector principle, and we agree with all suggestions and suggestions, as a parliamentary group, which could be heard at the expense of the Citizens' Protector's work on certain things he did not respond to and should react as someone who is the Protector of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, on the role and importance of the Citizens' Protector as an independent and independent state body, we talked a lot about, in principle, the proposal for a new law, today in this debate in particular, there was a lot of talk about the role of this independent state body with huge powers, but it is not about renegotiation, for public reasons, to remind the fact that the Constitution is defined by the body, from which its responsibility arises. Therefore, the Citizens' Protector is therefore in charge of protecting the rights of citizens, controlling the work of state authorities, defences, all other bodies and all other bodies, organisations and enterprises that have public authority. So, a large corps of powers, responsibilities and obligations. Its essential task is also that through its work it continuously improves respect for freedom and rights above all, to affirm and insist on legality in the work of the state authorities, which in its way affects the strengthening of the rule of law and that is what we all stand for today when we talk about the debate in particular, but also when we talk about the debate in the principle of the Protector of Citizens. Let us also remind that the Protector of the citizens, as has already been said, enjoys immunity as a People's MP. It is this immunity that enables him to be independent, enables him to work on his own, but also a huge responsibility to achieve certain results, to realize those goals and tasks that are set before him. It is precisely for its work that it corresponds to the National Assembly that chooses it and is obliged to submit an annual work report. In this meeting, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ivica Dacic, introduced practice to discuss reports by independent authorities of the regulatory bodies in the tide so as to provide even greater transparency, even greater public work and control work. In that sense, I would like to commend the work and responsibility of the current Citizens' Protector, who, on the previous report since his election in 2017, along with all the suggestions and suggestions that could be heard, so until the last report here in front of the MPs, explained his work. I'll tell you why I'm particularly pointing this out. I have to remind myself of this past period and the behavior of the previous Citizens' Protector, although that was already the case today. We know that it is a former Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, who, freely we can say, has in some way violated the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia several times by having all competences, knowing what his responsibility is, knowing very well what his obligation ignored the work of the National Assembly, ignored the work of resolution committees, which he had to answer questions when we specifically talk about the report on the work of the Citizens' Protectors. He seems to have misunderstood his role, so he's focused on protecting himself, I'd say with certainty, my rights. He did not find it appropriate to appear before members of the congregation committee when considering the report on his work, it seems to be beneath him because he saw himself elsewhere definitely, we later saw who, and today he is speaking about it among other things and publicly. Then, if someone violated the Law of Conflict of Interest, then it is just the former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic. I am not a lawyer, but I believe that if someone was in conflict of interest and violated the law then it is he, who should protect the citizens and their rights against the unconscious and unequivocal state administration and state authorities, and if anyone was then unconscious and irresponsible it was then Mr. Sasa Jankovic's citizens' protector. We remember the debate on such behaviour mainly in his, unfortunately, absence, never in presence to get answers to the questions we asked as MPs, as someone who represents citizens and who has the full right to ask the question of who is here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and chose. We don't know whose human and minority rights he was actually protecting during that period, except for what he was building and moving, trying to build and track his own path. True, it appeared in the media when it was due to run a presidential campaign. So he did not find it appropriate to appear at the committee's session, to deign MPs, to answer their questions, specifically about the work report, about his work, but he found it appropriate to appear at the assembly hall when the election campaign began, although we kept saying that the Citizens' Protector was more concerned with political flossules, political topics, that it was more of a political finding than it was specifically concerned with the work and competences defined specifically by the Law on the Citizens' Protector. To remind us that one of the conditions for selecting the Protector is that it has high moral, professional quality, which could not be said for the previous Protector with certainty. Not only did he not get involved in his business, he was breaking the law himself. From him who saw himself as someone call a political leader to all his sorrows, the failed, the citizens could not protect themselves from his illegal work, nor from violating all the absolutely moral postulates. He didn't care much about the political functioning of the Citizens' Protectors by law. So, very precise and clear action, the political functioning of the Citizens' Protectors is prohibited by law. On the contrary, it was politically activated just at the time of the public office of the Citizens' Protector, running for the President of the State, running a public political campaign that implies making political views, and what kind of campaign it was, we already know very well. He also interfered in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, interfered with the work of the President of the Republic, the legitimately elected President of the Republic, although the Law on the Protector of Citizens clearly states that he cannot control the work of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister and the Constitutional Court. He didn't pay any attention either because he was guided by his political interest, not by constitutional and legal obligation to be outside of politics as Protector of the Citizens. It is therefore good that this bill clearly states that the Guardian of Citizens cannot be a member of any political party, with which we fully agree and with which we are fully agreed. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10301	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10302	I thank the chairman. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am very pleased that our President of the Parliamentary Group, Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Dr Aleksandar Martinović, said everything about Sasa Jankovic and Zdravko Ponos, and I fully agree with everything that Dr Martinović said and thanked him for all the information he provided, which I did not highlight yesterday, and especially what he quoted as a prominent former member of the People's Party and close associate Vuk Jeremic, Nikola Jovanovic as saying that Zdravko Ponos was destroying Serbia's military, how he melted tanks and how he pushed the Army into NATO. Who are Zdravko Ponos, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Solak? These are according to their words and according to their contemporaries, and there is certainly Sasa Jankovic, along with all of them, dear citizens, great experts, great masters of her work. These are so well-respected people and so much have left a mark on them that one day movies and shows will be written about them, the feljetons will be written about them. Sasa Jankovic is likely to be written on feljetons and made films and shows. The show would be called, or a movie – protector. The film would talk about Sasa Jankovic as the Citizens' Protector not protecting the citizens, and probably in the part of the film or series there would be little talk about the affair – the gun and some investigations and the execution of various crimes and the non-protection of Serbian citizens. As for General Ponos, it will be filmed and "General" series. Of course, it will be taxed that he systematically destroyed the army, as Boris Tadic raised him in the colonel in 2000, and then in 2005 in the general-major, and in 2006 in the Lieutenant General, he became Deputy Chief of Staff, then the Chief of Staff, all in five years, and after their conflicts in the Democratic Party, he replaced him from that place, but was taken by the great diplomat Vuk Jeremic, and about Vuk Jeremic the films "Diplomata" will be made, in which way someone can be a corrupt diplomat and how he and the world's tycoons can make millions of deals. Then Zdravko Ponoš crossed where, but for Jeremic's assistant. Of course, at that time, Jeremic, the worst foreign minister in Serbia's history, needed someone to push Serbia into NATO, someone to co-operate with foreign services, and someone to stand up together with them and to join NATO, and to break all possible ties with Republika Srpska and Kosovo and Metohija. If this Zdravko Ponos, General and Vuk Jeremic, a diplomat, if they came to power, Serbia would give up both Kosovo and Metohija and Republika Srpska and give up its businesses. We would, not only become a colony, but we would pass as the Serbian Army passed and as diplomacy passed during Ponos and Jeremic. Their main mentor, he can make a movie and show "Taykuni". It is Dragan Gilas, who, along with Dragan Šolak, is likely to record the series "Taykuni". There will be talk of certain investigations that these tycoons of several thousand dollars of wealth have come to hundreds of millions and they will become new stars. Of course, it should not forget that Dragan Djilas is such a credited citizen of Serbia that he will be filmed and the series "The Mayor", but will not be spoken of as Branko Pesic, but will be talked about Dragan Gilas in the way he handled and did the worst mayor in Belgrade's history. Serbia also knows today who Gilas is mayor and Jeremic diplomats and Ponos General and Gilas and Solak tykuni. These are the people who have eaten the budget of the Republic of Serbia, who have kidnapped hundreds of millions of euros of citizens, who have destroyed the Serb diplomacy, who have contributed to the support of Kosovo and Metohija's independence, which have destroyed the city of Belgrade. All of them along with Sasa Jankovic, the Protector of Citizens who did everything, as Dr Aleksandar Martinovic said well, he just didn't protect the citizens. He wasn't protecting the citizens, he was protecting only himself and his comrades. All those who are not in office, both Jankovic and Ponos, and Jeremic and Djilas, along with their tycoon and multibillionaire Dragan Solak, have the motive to come to power to have re-functions so they can kidnap. They get very nervous when they're not on state mangers. They get very nervous when they can't burden the citizens to take the new millions. So today when we talk about the Citizens' Protector, I would like the current Citizens' Protector and future citizens to be what they should be, to be in the service of citizens, to be the protectors of citizens, to be the protectors of all citizens. One of my colleagues here said, aren't the Vukic family citizens of Serbia? This Citizens' Protector should be among the first, even before the MPs, to jump publicly into the defence of every citizen, to protect the citizens, and something I did not quite listen to or read the comments of various regulatory bodies, Commissioner and Protector of the citizens, who are in fact a state institution, that they were hoping for a statement in the defense of Alexander Vukic and his family against the most shameful and worst possible attacks. Fortunately, the citizens of Serbia know, and ours is to remind who Dragan Solak is, and who is Dragan Djilas, and who is Marinika Tepic, and who is Vuk Jeremic, and who is Miroslav Aleksic, and who is Zdravko Ponos. It is those who do not think well of the citizens of Serbia. It is those who attack all the good that the Serbian government and President Aleksandar Vukic do. They laughed last year when the president spoke about the procurement of respirators, when Serbia reacted among the best countries in Europe regarding protection against the crown of the virus. We got among the first, not enough respirators for Serbia, but for the whole region. Among the first we talked about obtaining vaccines from both Russia and China, and from EU countries, and the United States. They laughed and challenged our vaccines. What happened? Serbia acquired a sufficient number of vaccines before the EU countries six months ago. Not just for Serbia, but for the whole region. Serbia has set out to build a homage of hospitals amongst the first. It's a real vaccine factory. Now, here's the fifth vaccine from Poland, I think, "Modern". So Serbia has shown, led by Alexander Vukic, that it takes care of its citizens, to take care of citizens' health. What did Dragan Djilas and Zdravko Ponos, Solak, Jeremic, Marinika Tepic show? To take care of themselves, their functions and their millions. While Vukic and Serbia care for millions of citizens, Gilas, Ponos and Jeremic care about hundreds of millions, but their dollars and euros that they have kidnapped and who want to kidnap. Fortunately, citizens know the truth and live Serbia. I thank the chairman. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am very pleased that our President of the Parliamentary Group, Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Dr Aleksandar Martinović, said everything about Sasa Jankovic and Zdravko Ponos, and I fully agree with everything that Dr Martinović said and thanked him for all the information he provided, which I did not highlight yesterday, and especially what he quoted as a prominent former member of the People's Party and close associate Vuk Jeremic, Nikola Jovanovic as saying that Zdravko Ponos was destroying Serbia's military, how he melted tanks and how he pushed the Army into NATO. Who are Zdravko Ponos, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Solak? These are according to their words and according to their contemporaries, and there is certainly Sasa Jankovic, along with all of them, dear citizens, great experts, great masters of her work. These are so well-respected people and so much have left a mark on them that one day movies and shows will be written about them, the feljetons will be written about them. Sasa Jankovic is likely to be written on feljetons and made films and shows. The show would be called, or a movie – protector. The film would talk about Sasa Jankovic as the Citizens' Protector not protecting the citizens, and probably in the part of the film or series there would be little talk about the affair – the gun and some investigations and the execution of various crimes and the non-protection of Serbian citizens. As for General Ponos, it will be filmed and "General" series. Of course, it will be taxed that he systematically destroyed the army, as Boris Tadic raised him in the colonel in 2000, and then in 2005 in the general-major, and in 2006 in the Lieutenant General, he became Deputy Chief of Staff, then the Chief of Staff, all in five years, and after their conflicts in the Democratic Party, he replaced him from that place, but was taken by the great diplomat Vuk Jeremic, and about Vuk Jeremic the films "Diplomata" will be made, in which way someone can be a corrupt diplomat and how he and the world's tycoons can make millions of deals. Then Zdravko Ponoš crossed where, but for Jeremic's assistant. Of course, at that time, Jeremic, the worst foreign minister in Serbia's history, needed someone to push Serbia into NATO, someone to co-operate with foreign services, and someone to stand up together with them and to join NATO, and to break all possible ties with Republika Srpska and Kosovo and Metohija. If this Zdravko Ponos, General and Vuk Jeremic, a diplomat, if they came to power, Serbia would give up both Kosovo and Metohija and Republika Srpska and give up its businesses. We would, not only become a colony, but we would pass as the Serbian Army passed and as diplomacy passed during Ponos and Jeremic. Their main mentor, he can make a movie and show "Taykuni". It is Dragan Gilas, who, along with Dragan Šolak, is likely to record the series "Taykuni". There will be talk of certain investigations that these tycoons of several thousand dollars of wealth have come to hundreds of millions and they will become new stars. Of course, it should not forget that Dragan Djilas is such a credited citizen of Serbia that he will be filmed and the series "The Mayor", but will not be spoken of as Branko Pesic, but will be talked about Dragan Gilas in the way he handled and did the worst mayor in Belgrade's history. Serbia also knows today who Gilas is mayor and Jeremic diplomats and Ponos General and Gilas and Solak tykuni. These are the people who have eaten the budget of the Republic of Serbia, who have kidnapped hundreds of millions of euros of citizens, who have destroyed the Serb diplomacy, who have contributed to the support of Kosovo and Metohija's independence, which have destroyed the city of Belgrade. All of them along with Sasa Jankovic, the Protector of Citizens who did everything, as Dr Aleksandar Martinovic said well, he just didn't protect the citizens. He wasn't protecting the citizens, he was protecting only himself and his comrades. All those who are not in office, both Jankovic and Ponos, and Jeremic and Djilas, along with their tycoon and multibillionaire Dragan Solak, have the motive to come to power to have re-functions so they can kidnap. They get very nervous when they're not on state mangers. They get very nervous when they can't burden the citizens to take the new millions. So today when we talk about the Citizens' Protector, I would like the current Citizens' Protector and future citizens to be what they should be, to be in the service of citizens, to be the protectors of citizens, to be the protectors of all citizens. One of my colleagues here said, aren't the Vukic family citizens of Serbia? This Citizens' Protector should be among the first, even before the MPs, to jump publicly into the defence of every citizen, to protect the citizens, and something I did not quite listen to or read the comments of various regulatory bodies, Commissioner and Protector of the citizens, who are in fact a state institution, that they were hoping for a statement in the defense of Alexander Vukic and his family against the most shameful and worst possible attacks. Fortunately, the citizens of Serbia know, and ours is to remind who Dragan Solak is, and who is Dragan Djilas, and who is Marinika Tepic, and who is Vuk Jeremic, and who is Miroslav Aleksic, and who is Zdravko Ponos. It is those who do not think well of the citizens of Serbia. It is those who attack all the good that the Serbian government and President Aleksandar Vukic do. They laughed last year when the president spoke about the procurement of respirators, when Serbia reacted among the best countries in Europe regarding protection against the crown of the virus. We got among the first, not enough respirators for Serbia, but for the whole region. Among the first we talked about obtaining vaccines from both Russia and China, and from EU countries, and the United States. They laughed and challenged our vaccines. What happened? Serbia acquired a sufficient number of vaccines before the EU countries six months ago. Not just for Serbia, but for the whole region. Serbia has set out to build a homage of hospitals amongst the first. It's a real vaccine factory. Now, here's the fifth vaccine from Poland, I think, "Modern". So Serbia has shown, led by Alexander Vukic, that it takes care of its citizens, to take care of citizens' health. What did Dragan Djilas and Zdravko Ponos, Solak, Jeremic, Marinika Tepic show? To take care of themselves, their functions and their millions. While Vukic and Serbia care for millions of citizens, Gilas, Ponos and Jeremic care about hundreds of millions, but their dollars and euros that they have kidnapped and who want to kidnap. Fortunately, citizens know the truth and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10304	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10305	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, dear Minister, I will support all these things they have said as well as my previous colleagues. In most parts of my party's policies and me as president of the United Peasants' Party is something similar to that of Dragan Markovic Palma, who talked about all those things concerning the former Citizens' Protector, about all those things that those bad people did. A lot of the things we talked about, where all of our people from southeastern Serbia were concerned, all of those who deal with certain agricultural works where it's all visible, where all of this and on the ground can be seen. Dear Minister, I can say for you, as well as for our government, for our Serbian President, that he is doing his job in the best way, five plus, as counterpart Dragan Markovic said, is an assessment, but perhaps even bigger. At the very least, all of us who are here are doing our job for the benefit of every citizen of our country of Serbia, whether we live in Srlig, whether he lives in Beli Palanca, Sokobanja, whether he lives in the territory of the city of Nis, Nisavski district or in Tutina, Sjenica, Saturday or Belgrade. For all these people, we have to provide the same conditions of life so that they can live the same way, to make it, to make their families there. By the way, all the things we said where some previous regimes made it impossible, where everything was destroyed during the privatisation, where very wealthy people appeared afterwards, and that all happened after 2000. All those things that were, they never came back. I think now, in this period back in 2012, in 2013 and here, a lot of things are changing for the better. People get hired, we try to make the same standards for every citizen, with me always pointing out problems and putting apostrophe on people living in the country, living from the village, for those women who stay there, who work there from morning till tomorrow, for those of our children from the villages that live there. We must provide all of them with the same conditions of life. About these things, he has to talk about it more and he has to work on it more and the Citizens' Protector is now active. He hasn't done it before, you know, he was doing something the other way around. He worked for himself, worked for his needs with a desire to be something more. But the current Citizens' Protector must be more on the ground, it must be more with people, it must feel the problems of our people in our rural areas, in these small areas, that they can behave in the same way as, say, children from the village, that they can work and live the same way as children in the city, that they have the same or similar conditions of life. That goes for our women in the country, too, for those of our people in the country. It's much harder for all of them than for those who live in the city. One of those things that Mr. Markovic was talking about is that it is necessary to ensure to every man that, in every place, we need to ensure the same conditions of life. One of the things discussed in previous days was one topic and a campaign of Belgrade Philology High School, which she put on her Instagram page "Digital Bukvar" - Do you have any trouble falling like people from the south? Here, I'm the man who comes from the south, from Svrlig, I may not be good at falling, but I speak the language that all my neighbors speak, all my people who live there. We don't all have to speak in literary language, it's important to us that someone hears us, that someone understands us. The wealth of our language is that I speak this way, someone speaks a different way, people who live in Belgrade speak differently. The bottom line is that as residents, as people who come from the south, from eastern Serbia, we cannot have the same emphasis and that we speak the same way as people who live in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotica or some other part of Serbia. It's our wealth, it's our diversity in speech, our culture. That's what we're supposed to talk about here in the Assembly. I don't blame that little girl who wrote that, not at all. These kids know what to do, it's our future, it's our hope, there's our desire to make them better and do different. They heard it from someone. Once again, I think the Citizens' Protector should work on it. The bottom line is that all of us who are here, whether we come from Srlig, Belgrade, Sremska Mitrovica, Ruma, Subotica, we are all representatives of our citizens and I from this place represent the interest of all people living in southeastern Serbia, trying to speak the language spoken there. If anyone may be bothered or misunderstood, he does not have to listen, or turn off television. Dear Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Vice-President of the Assembly, I will support all the proposals of these laws because this law is good. The amendments that have been delivered, the government is right to reject them, because it is more summed up this way and the visibility is the most important. Once again, I will vote for the bill's proposals, I think they're useful and good, because we all work for every man, whether he lives in Srlig, Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad. We all have to be the same, and we all have to live and fight for our country of Serbia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10306	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP is Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10307	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister with an associate, last week I spoke, I'll remind you of some things, but from last week to this day, some not so wonderful things have happened that concern both the Protector and the Trustee, and God and the Ministry of Human Rights, so I have to point out certain negative phenomena that are in this particular topic. Of course this law is good. It's a good one, but this one's even better. And these accepted amendments, I'll only speak once about all these amendments, are good. But again, I must speak to the Guardian of Citizens, the Trustees, and to God, the Ministers of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, which I had last week an opportunity to hear. Last week, I will remind you, I asked the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee for the Protection of Equality on what they can or will do about the threatened and neglected freedoms and rights of the President of the Republic and members of his family, but this also concerned the endangered rights of SNS officials, SNS voters and SNS members. All these people are victims of years of dehumanisation, inequality and discrimination based on party membership, state functions or relatedness. I'm going to ask a simple question -- who protects the endangered and neglected rights of all these faces I've listed, the president, his family, SNS officials, voters? Whether representatives of the regulatory bodies and ministries that I have led to say -- yes, their human rights and freedoms must be collateral damage to the position of the president of the Republic or to the position of members, for example, SNS and officials as members of some majority. I won't agree with that, and I don't think anyone normal would agree with this claim. The president and his family are most often protected by us, the SNS MPs, but also by SNS officials and individual members of the government, headed by Prime Minister Brnabic. Unfortunately, however, competent institutions do not do so. As a result of the silence of the institutions, we have a four-year hickey and dehumanisation directed against President Aleksandr Vukic's family, and their only fault is that it exists and that they are not according to the Gilasov opposition and their strong media. So the president and his family have nothing to do with criminals, they've never gained anything from politics. For 27 or 28 years, the president has been involved in politics and has acquired nothing based on politics or any person associated with it, let alone stolen something. Simply, President Vukic and his family are as clean as tears. So much stranger is this dehumanization and discrimination. To let you know, I looked at the detailed and chronologically backwards portals of the Guardians and the Trustee and I established, and through the debate I listened to both last and this week, that they were very narrowed and extremely restrictively engaged in their work. So they act as the protector of minorities and as a trustee for the protection of the equality of minorities, and the Ministry of Human Rights acts as the Ministry of Human Rights of Minorities and not all citizens. Simply, our Constitution predicts that they are all protecting all citizens, not just minorities, and minorities and the majority. They don't do that. Here's an example. So, in February 2019, a double attempt was made to vandalise Pride's window info centre in Belgrade. They reacted, and that's right, all the media and the Citizens' Protector. However, I must point out that the rooms and windows of the Pride info center in King Milan are not damaged at all. The Commissioner said briefly - the Commissioner condemns last night's attack on the Pride info centre in Belgrade on 1 March 2020. But I'll remind you of double standards. The premises of the Serbian Progressive Party have been attacked over 60 times over the past few years, with massive material damage done. The motives were purely political and it was discrimination based on party membership. In one case even the SNS rooms were completely burned. The opposition media has not reacted or condemned these attacks at all over the years. The trustee and the Protector never called in to convicts to attack the SNS premises. That's what I've personally checked by searching the activity and communication of these sites that I've listed. In the event of years of attacks on President Vukic's family, too. Many attacks are also on SNS officials, and Credentials and Protector have never called. One only chance, since I was a reporter for the report of regulatory bodies in the spring of this year, I carefully read the Commissioner's report, was 150 pages long, there was only one sentence that said that a negative phenomenon of media attacks on President Vukic's family had been observed. One little sentence on 150 pages, that's all. So, we've come to the point that no one is protecting certain endangered rights of the majority. Simply, the Commissioner and Protector essentially by their work and operation, they say they are not in charge, the police are, in fact, partly in charge, but not for this, the police are in charge and it mainly detects the perpetrators of these crimes and is responsible for that. However, police are not in charge of endangering equality and discrimination. When we look at years of these physical attacks on SNS rooms, it is precisely a new negative phenomenon of jeopardizing equality and discrimination based on party membership. Then it turns out nobody's in charge. That's just not true. It's not the police, right. They are the Protector, the Trustee and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. Minister Komic, I will remind you all, often says that officials are obliged to suffer. Yes, they are obliged to suffer criticism, but no one in their right mind is obliged to suffer physical attacks, death threats, dehumanization and inquisition. One more thing for the Guardian and the Trustee, as regards the start of the election campaign, that's what I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the start of the election campaign, because all the agreements, both of the lines of dialogue, have resulted, and that's where we made a key contribution, so basically, we have an unofficial start of a pre-election campaign that the infamous has started and started with violence. So the start of the pre-election campaign in Zajecar marked the violence of Gilas officials in Zajecar who burned Mayor Nicic's car and his wife. It also marked the violence of fake environmentalist Chuta Jovanovic in Loznica, when his officials, you will not believe, vittled the axes for the expense of Germany's Viola von Kramon, who was visiting Loznica at the time. Otherwise, she is a lobbyist, the head lobbyist of the fake state of Kosovo. She visited Loznica, we simply cannot determine why she visited Loznica, apparently joined the pre-election campaign on the part of Zelenovic "We Don't Drown Belgrade" and this fake environmentalist, Cuta. So, Germany's fifth column in Loznica has been riding axes and threatening citizens just because Violi von Kramon has been running: "Kosovo is Serbia". In this violence should also be numbered, I will remind you of this, Nikola Novakovic, son of Vice-President of the party, Borislav Novakovic, and this is again in connection with these rooms, which has recently been destroyed by a dead drunk 30 square meters, that is 10 meters in length, in the Bulevar Liberation in Novi Sad, times three metres high, the window of the SNS premises in Novi Sad, and part of the mobileists of those rooms has been destroyed. As we can see, the opposition's pre-election campaign is based on total violence, burning property, causing general dangers and axes. So it's a programme of Gilas, Jeremic and this fake environmentalist, the silent one - burning, breaking, axes. In Zajecar, I will remind you, only after 12 hours of a crime has been arrested, the name and last name are known, the person is 34 years old, Nenada Nikolova, who has fully confessed to committing a crime in the police department, and photos from social networks show that Nenad Nikolov is a militant and very politically defined person. Namely, Nenad Nikolov is the stepson of the chairman of the Gilas party's meeting committee, Zoran Mancic, and the son of Gilas's official, Sofika Dimcic, Mancic's wife. Simply, we can basically ask the question – did Dragan Gilas give his Nenad Nikolov's order to burn down Bosko Nicic's car? Here's another example where no one, not the trustee, not the Protector, not the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, not the Association of Journalists, and that just happened yesterday. Just yesterday I caught Marinika in the scariest lies. Yesterday, she issued a hallucinogenic statement by the SAA and has been accusing President Vukic of organising an assassination of former EPS Union President Milan Djordjevic Djokin in Arandjelovac, via the Gjilasov media since 9 a.m. Marinika says in a statement, I quote, "Open letter to Alexander Vukic", it begins, "with your inexperiences so far you've been counting on the media, and now you've started with guns." "After recently," she continued, "removed and President of the EPS Union Milan Djordjevic Djokin opened an affair about listening in the EPS and obtaining a technique for secretly listening to people, Đokin was shot in Arandjelovac with two warning bullets. Someone forbade the members of the AKP to make an insight. Who gave that order? “ the end of the quote. That fake spin, I'll remind you, has been spinning for 26 hours in the Jilassian and 28 hours in the Jilassian media. All of this, by the way, was revealed in two texts that were published yesterday in the "Informer" and on the "Embarga" portal and on the other. It was established, and the police also issued their statement, that everything in Tepicka's statement is a lie. I see the police, so there was insight, found that someone, watch out, in Arandjelovac, probably from a sling, a metal ball, broke the glass door of a coffee shop that didn't even have this named Djordjevic, which was in a TV studio at the time. There were neither shooting nor firearms, nor two bullets. So neither was the face that Marinika mentioned that he was shot at at at that facility. So nothing happened that could link this Djordjevic to anything she listed. So someone broke the glass at the front door of some coffee shop in Arangelovac. Then both the public and we or anyone should believe this Djordjevic, who is a notorious liar, who launched fantastic lies a week ago that someone organized a listening device in the EPS, imagine this, and that the EPS listened to it, they made it up completely, could have put in another family member, or father of President Vukic, to make the lie even more amazing. So, instead of an apology, we're getting more lies, new lies, spins in these 28 hours. A question for the marines - where do you see two bullets, shots fired, Wolf's responsibility, an EPS conspiracy? Will Marinika, since she was fully exposed, make an apology for the lies she made yesterday? She will not, as she did not apologize for those drugged chickens in Morovic, when instead of a chicken farm, she was seeing a marijuana farm. She never apologized for that. She will continue and continue in these 28 hours to absorb that fiction. So, simply to say, Marinika is unhappy that she will not be, it is linked to the elections, the candidate for the president of Serbia or the mayor of Belgrade, because even her "Multicom" employer, Gilas, saw that she would fail in these elections and that the people would not. So Djilas announced that Marinika would be the holder of the SP list, as the people would say – from horse to donkey, more specifically – from horse to bicycle, as Marinik described by her unsuspecting vice president, Nikola Jovanovic. And as Marinika, in her senseless letter, mentions without reason the members of the family of President Vukic, again, by who knows which way, and drags them through the mud again, I tell her that we from the SNS will proudly say that we do not know and that we do not know any of the four children of her employer Gilas, nor his parents' names, that we do not know the names of any of the two marine children, nor her parents' names, because we will never attack them and drag them through the media mud, as the Marinika and her brothers do to Daniel, Andreya, Tamari, Angelina, Xenia, Mililica, Angelka and Little Vukan. These examples of violence and the lies I first made show that none of these protective institutions are responding. Secondly, they show that in Serbia, part of the opposition and their media act simply as an Inquisition, and that is a real inquisition, and individuals act against us as inquisitors. And so we have a hunt for political witches, the burning of political witches and in Zajecar and the burning of SNS rooms, we have dehumanization based on political or family belongings. For the end, this is the start of an election campaign that's very worrying. As you can see, violence and destruction are caused by parties that have excluded themselves from the election dialogue. So it's the SAA, the People's Party and the Mutin movement, and it's all directed against SNS and citizens. And what is this extreme part of the opposition going to do in the coming months when the campaign starts, when this is what they're doing at the start of the campaign? Let me remind you of how we in the SNS work and how President Vukic works. We perform exclusively constructively. So, we have ensured the success of both track dialogues on elections with satisfaction from the EU's parliament's representatives. On the day these extremist parties carried out these two attacks that I spoke of in Zajecar and Loznica, President Vukic on that day presented new modern doubledecker trains that would go 200km an hour to new Serbian railways. The first such trains will take the Belgrade-Novi Sad track, which ends in spring 2022. So President Vukic is building Serbia, protecting Serbia, injecting Serbia, treating Serbia, treating the past in the present for the future. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10308	The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10309	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, esteemed citizens of the Republic of Serbia, firstly, I fully agree and support the suggestion and conclusion of Prof. Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. I'll talk about the amendment to the Citizens' Protector. This law provides essential details for further development of good administration, which is, by the way, the basic emphasis on the Public Administration Reform Strategy for the period from 2021/2030. The year, which the government adopted in April of this year at the initiative of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. By improving the responsibility and transparency of its work, the independence of the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for Public Information, has been improved, thus fulfilling the conditions for their more efficient and effective work, as well as strengthening the institution in order to strengthen its independence in line with international standards and with EU standards. A law that was changed in 2006, and then amended by the Constitution, abused and harmonised with the needs of the former regime, as the Commissioner himself pointed out in 2012. The key weakness of the law was the silence of the public authorities, i.e. ignoring the requests for access to information, which resulted in a request for information being addressed to the trustee. As the former regime headed by Dragan Djilas led Serbia on Saturday, he best said in his address the former Citizens' Protection Commissioner, high hopes and presidential candidate, Sasa Jankovic, who admitted to receiving proposals from foreign embassies and Western powers to bring the president down, to bring him closer to destroying him from the inside, and at some point when his heart came to his place. This morbid behavior continues today with an even stronger and uglier intensity, a policy of indescribable hatred directed towards the successes of Alexander Vukic and Serbia, which we achieve in all segments. In a responsible, social economic policy, positive economic movements in all sectors, regardless of the severe economic crisis, Serbia has managed to take economic steps to recognise all European countries, as well as the world, but we have not done it for them, but for our people. That is why we have helped all citizens and businessmen who have suffered enormous damage caused by the effects of the pandemic. The support of the State is also set for the upcoming period for categories that are most endangered. Payment to pensioners worth 30 euros in November, which began, unemployed, as well as all citizens of Serbia, 20 euros in December and late February, worth 20,000 dinars for all pensioners, as well as an increase in salaries and pensions of 7% for the public sector and 8% for the military, police and our medical workers. We have also managed to raise GDP, which will grow close to 7.5% by the end of the year, GDP, which is much more than much more than much more developed countries, because with responsible policy and large foreign investment, which has provided a wise sustainable policy for Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, we have continued the path of progress, as others in Europe for GDP growth, push our development policy further and the prosperity of our beloved country. Responsibility to the citizens of Serbia, as well as our consistency in preserving good interstate relations with our partners, as well as security for all future generations. It's Alexander Vukic's policy and we're moving forward, for Serbia, and we're not stopping. At this difficult time of the pandemic, we open factories, we bring foreign investors, we help the people, mostly the pensioners. It is a basic postulate run by SNS and Aleksandar Vucic, the people in the first place. And what did the yellow, tycoon company that led Dragan Gilas do? Where were they when the Serbian population took place in 2004? Where were they in 2008 when the self-proclaimed independent state of Kosovo was declared? Well, you know where, in exotic destinations, they counted their millions. Where are the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija now suffering the terrible terror again? This mob conglomerate headed by Dragan Gilas and his Yappur Megaphones, Marinic, Vuk, Lutovac, attack as beasts of eager blood on the streets, surrounded by its allies Albin Kurti and Vjos Osmani, the family of President Alexander Vukic, his brother, mother, father, and the worst of children, but also by the Serb people who for Marinik and the former genocide regime, as well as this unique case of Zdravko Ponos, former Chief of Staff, the Pharisees by definition led exclusively by personal and part-time interests, and particularly his bosses, have trampled the world's oath to defend the Constitution and citizens of Serbia, and now kneels before the altars of foreign embassssssss who have put him in a position in time to work for NATO. Well, you'd be in your infirmity, yet without the will of the citizens to cheer and dress. Heroic, there's nothing. The saints don't exist for them, they don't understand it, but that's why Gilas's machine brain understands 619m euros, 35 apartments, and hate speech and violence, because that's all they know, and that's their plan and programme. The bare-armed Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija who have been terrorising the hordes of paramilitary forces under the control of separatists from Pristina, in their media are only the introduction to advertising, they do not care about the people, these self-called environmentalists who have decorated their environment with luxury villas and millions in accounts, countless media and so on. NGOs that pump fake loans. Obviously out of too much love for the green, but the dollar. The people of Serbia see, the people of Serbia know well who is on the defender of Serbian interests, who is always standing by the people and does not step down, that is Aleksandar Vukic. That's what Serbian citizens see whenever it's hard. They said so in the elections in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as in Negotina, Mionici, Tristenik, as new factories see, new jobs, thousands of kilometers of roads, since Serbia and all who live in it are trapped in the shackles of a catastrophic former regime that destroyed and robbed everything that fell on his hands. The tycoons are no longer run by Serbia, now Serbia is run by Aleksandar Vukic, for whom the word of the people is sacred. The people see it, so the tycoon, the thief's octopus, threw it at the junkyard of political history where it belongs. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10310	The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10311	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Obradovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I very much liked the presentation of my colleague, the esteemed Uglješ Mrdić, and I think he was mild. As always, Mrdic is a good man and he tries to control himself, when he talks about, I say scum, like Dragan Gilas. They say that then we may be breaking some code, but there's no code when you talk about a bastard who was able to steal so brutally from Serbia, take their future, take them along with his criminals and thieves for 12 years. So what code are we talking about here? Whichever code, or mobsters didn't follow, those thieves who've been in power for 12 years. They killed daily, day by day, the future of Serbian citizens. And not only should a film be made about this period or more films, about each of them individually, be made not by the mayor's film, because it is a prize for that bastard, but a series of murderers, and that if there were, you'd hit 619 episodes, just as much as millions stole from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In 619 episodes, so little is enough to stop all the evil we have suffered for 12 years in the Republic of Serbia. A few hundred times after 619 episodes to show everything that Dragan Gilas, DS and all its apostates and wastes have done to this country since 5 October 2000 until the arrival of SNS and Alexander Vukic to power in Serbia in 2012. It's hard to talk about that time. We've said a lot and heard a lot, and a lot has already been told about this terrible, dark, horror period of the Republic of Serbia and the suffering and suffering that this nation has survived for 12 years of DOS authorities and all its forms that have kept this country closed and imprisoned for these terrible 12 years. That wouldn't be so bad if you didn't want a rerun of it. Well, as we had a rerun of "Better Life", they would have rerun their authorities if they had more than a dozen times to return to power in Serbia, until they finally turned off the last light in this country, until finally the last pair of Serbia's budget was transferred to one of their 50s, 100 or who knows how many accounts that may not have been found around the world, owned by Dragan Gilas. It's a little 35, 40 apartments, a little short on the Gojko brother, a little brother Gilas, a little unfortunate wolf, a little bit of Bosko, a little bit of everyone else. A little, you know, it's being spent, and here they are, not in power for a while, and they felt like their pocket's out, there's no 619, maybe now there's 618 million. And it is necessary to ride again the coat of arms of Serbian citizens, to enter the parliament here, to poison the common sense of this people in direct transmission, to lie to him that in six months, he, the first six months of his power, will do great things. He will, he would do great things, he would rob this people again, and it has given too long a period of time. He is an expert, indeed, expert, but because he is an amazing, almost magician, that while he was performing the imaginary function of the co-ordinator of the president, the director, I don't know what kind of offices to communicate with citizens in Boris Tadic's cabinet, then at the mayor's post, with a salary of about 1,000 or 1,000 and a half euros, it doesn't matter, in that time you get 619 million, amazing. The world's greatest magicians to envy him. How did this work with magic to turn that thousand euros a month into 619 million? It's almost amazing that an honest man wonders that this bastard isn't still in jail? How is it possible that this man is still poisoning us, every day and making some new portals, some new newspaper, some new media, where he's sending messages from all over Luxembourg, and who knows where he's going to send messages from the universe tomorrow, what in Serbia needs to change and how he's going to do so much better? For who better? Which one of Serbia's citizens, who will make it a bigger pension than it is today, when Dragan Gilas is in power? What Serbian citizen will receive financial assistance? Well, remember the economic crisis when he was in power of Dragan Gilas. How was it helped by the citizens of Serbia then? By 400,000, 600,000 people were out of work. Is that how they helped the citizens during the economic crisis? By shutting down hundreds of factories, hundreds of small, medium-sized enterprises, those of whom people supported their families, not large companies, small businesses, where there were two, five people, small family companies, of which people were paying off some credit, from which they trained children, paying bills, buying food. People had to sell what they had and get out of here as soon as possible. Well, she was famous for their wings -- take and burn from here, everything you've got, just get out of Serbia as soon as possible. Well, that's their policy. He speaks so much of the departure of young people, we were then another country in the world in a brain drain, during the rule of Dragan Gilas. As much as he cared about children, mothers, those hundreds of millions who remained in Belgrade while he was in power, maternity and mother care. How much did he owe the pensioners? Here, yesterday from Monday to Wednesday, we paid for the help, first for the pensioners on Monday, then for all the other citizens of 30 euros each. So when one euro was given to the citizens of Serbia, that they saved one euro, that they said -- here, we have achieved such economic results, can we raise the salary on a real basis? We have achieved such results that we can help the economy in the economic crisis. Like today, when we have a terrible pandemic of the coronary virus to help our economy, not to shut down businesses, but to hire new people. We open new factories every day. They work and build new roads, bridges. It's not made of fog and empty promises. Get out on the highway, see what these highways look like, there are, there are. People are moving them. These factories exist. There are scientific and technological parks. There's help for young people, there are scholarships. People are coming back here. They see that in Serbia they have a perspective that they can also live better. Well, I guess every normal man wants to stay in his country, doesn't want to get out of here. But I also understand those young people who had to leave Serbia during Dragan Gilas. What could he do here? What was his perspective? For a job in the city administration or anywhere he had to give a bribe. For a job in any public firm, he had to bribe someone, to know someone, aunt, aunt Gilas, that he knew someone of his own there to hire him. In private companies where he had to work, when everything went out? What perspective of life was in that Serbia that Gilas had? It was the right thing to do with New Belgrade's clothed Terrasia, which was a picture of the politics of Dragan Gilas and what he was offering to Serbia, the mirage. You'll have twice your salary in six months. Well, right, the money's falling out of the sky, so when I do, it's going to be right from a thousand euros to two thousand, because I think that's the way it is, and then I'm pouring those crocodile tears out of the pharmacy, and I'm so sorry for those pensioners who live hard, but yeah, I had to steal those hundreds of millions, what do I have to do, I didn't have. Now, I do now, so I'll give you a little something. Once again, the false promise will be made to you. Let their stories go. The only purpose of their policy dealing is to steal Serbian citizens, to take money. If any other policy enforcement had been the purpose, we would have had at least one new highway during that government. We didn't have any. We'd have an average salary at least as close to what we have today. No, we had a salary of 200, 250 euros. They remember especially young people back then, ten years ago, you go to work somewhere, you get 20,000, 25,000 max. Today's average salary is 300 euros. At the time of Dragan Gilas, it was 150 euros. Today, the average salary will be over 600 euros, as of January next year, and in its time it was not even 300 euros. In 2025, the average salary of a thousand euros. Just remember what it was like at the time that Dragan Gilas led this country. Compare what you had then, what you have today, what you will have if Alexander Vukic remains President of the Republic of Serbia, and I ask him now and from this place to run for President of the Republic, because only with Alexander Vukic and only led by Alexander Vukic we can go ahead and win. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10312	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10313	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with an associate, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what we want to achieve with the legal solution that is before us today is that the institutions of the Republic of Serbia are doing their job maximum, professionally and responsibly, and that the time of the yellow tycoon is not repeated when those institutions were only serving to capture their party personnel, who were given special tasks to work in the interest of yellow tycoons, in the interest of small groups of people captured by the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. We have already had the opportunity to hear about the results of their work and statistics is something that remains forever, remembered and recorded in history, and based on which we can clearly see the results of their policy. What they're trying to do today and what they're doing through their media is spin, spread lies. They are absolutely not trying to pass on, if nothing else, to hear what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done during this period of a year, but what they have tried to do yesterday and today is to convey some of their personal attitudes and not to inform the citizens absolutely about these results, and we have the opportunity absolutely to see in their media where they are most concerned with the question of how Prime Minister Ana Brnabic gave an answer to their provocations, trying to spread her affairs and lies at the conference. Of course, they are not angry, they are angry that they failed in what their boss Dragan Gilas has ordered them to do, which is to provoke and convey the wrong message to Serbian citizens. They absolutely don't talk about the results that have been achieved, and we've had opportunities from colleagues today to hear. You've got three new units of hospitals built in record time. We also have a home-made vaccine against the crown. Not only have we obtained the necessary amounts of vaccines to protect the health of citizens and carry out this immunisation process. When we look at statistics, the process is done well in relation to the countries of the region. If we say that Bulgaria, as a member of the EU, has only 30% of the population that has been vaccinated, then you can see how successful we have been. A vaccine factory is being built to produce Sinofarm's vaccine for the purpose of fighting the crown, but it also remains here to deal with the production and other vaccines needed to raise the degree of immunisation and protection of the health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And at the time of the pandemic, when problems with the economy arise, when many countries were thinking about how to secure profits from their citizens, such as France, like other developed countries, we were still attracting investment, we were building roads, I said, eight highways have been built, 15 total roads, we are working on revitalising our railways, raising the capacity and potentials of our economy for new investments, we are still champions in the region when it comes to attracting foreign investment, on the one hand, and on the other hand they provide all of this on the basis of maintaining economic stability by having both stable inflation and a stable level of prices, by never having a higher level of foreign reserves on which we can guarantee the exchange rate that is stable, literally, since the time the SNS took over this country, since the governor of Jorgovna Banka. We have 36 tonnes of gold in foreign reserves, which no country in the region has, and we continue to increase these reserves ourselves, and we have had the opportunity to see at the opening of a new mine in Bor where the new amounts of gold and silver that the National Bank will buy and thus guarantee macroeconomic factors that are very important for attracting foreign investors, but also for supporting domestic investors to continue investing and developing the Republic of Serbia. As I said, they are making every effort to make sure that everything Serbia is doing on the domestic policy issue and foreign policy issue is diminished and that they are dealing with certain topics that are absolutely neither relevant nor accurate, so we had the opportunity to hear yesterday from Marinika, who is also known for seeing drugs and drug dealers instead of chickens in Morovic, while performing the role of the province's sports secretary gave money to her friends and did not invest at all in the development of sports infrastructure in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and who tried to make all those who were unsuitable, unwanted from Pancheva or from wherever she was being disturbed. She tried a new affair yesterday to produce with someone shooting out of the bar's sling window where neither the person she said was preparing the assassination was there, trying to show some kind of assassination. Now, as far as their madness goes, to what limits they try, not only do they lie to Serbian citizens, Serbian citizens clearly know that they lie, spin and try to distract themselves from their inability to do what they did at the time of the yellow robbery of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, but they try to deceive themselves and very unsuccessfully, I can say freely, and then they become only the object of ridicule both by citizens and by people on social networks where they advertise. What I'm going to draw attention to is when it comes to public opinion research. We had the opportunity to see the research that they had done through their media and where they were collecting their grandmothers and frogs, and all they cared about was that they kind of bounced in the research that they had come to, and that they were ahead of the election in Belgrade. We expect for sure in the next day that it will be announced in advance and the winners in the parliamentary elections in the Republic of Serbia, but, gentlemen, in order to win the elections first, you have to go to these elections, you have to run, you have to be bold to come out on the line and President Aleksandr Vukic and SNS and the policy that is being conducted in Serbia through the 2025 programme and the results that this programme has achieved and to present what is better for the citizens of Serbia, than they now have, but of course through arguments, not by attacking. We understand that your main strategies – the attack is the best defense. It is clear to us that the goal you have is to come to power beyond the elections, past the will of the citizens, that the goal justifies the means and that you do not hesitate to attack President Vukic's family, attack his children, attack all associates, and only in order to try to discredit and thus portray yourself as better people. You must be aware that Serbian citizens do not have a short memory, that Serbian citizens know clearly what you did while you were in power, that you left more than half a million Serbian citizens without a job, that you have cocked up factories, that you have closed down those companies that were successful brands in this country, which the current government has saved and worked to save so that they can continue to operate. I don't want to talk about infrastructure. You weren't able to finish the Corridor 10 you were talking about so much. The railroads for you didn't even exist. The only thing that existed was that you were selling out property to fill your own pockets, and that's what your colleagues were talking about when they were talking about candidate Zdravko Ponoš, who apparently appears in their ranks, as a potential candidate in the presidential elections. The question is whether this candidate is good enough to put them together or will continue to tear them apart, as they all, we know, before 2012, wore the same yellow uniform, and today they wear uniforms of various citizens' movements, associations of citizens. We had the opportunity to hear in yesterday's "Sword to Word" show from distinguished colleague Djordža Todorovic in a way that, in addition to those loan schemes that Dragan Gilas used to buy parties, to force certain people, media analysts to work for him, use phantom organisations, associations of citizens to come up with financial funds that finance their movements, and when they talk about movements, they say that they are some kind of volunteers, that they are doing it all for free and they are doing it from the heart, so on. Their hearts, in the interests of citizens, and never in detail and in detail did they deal with analysis, nor what it is that Serbian citizens need, nor what it is that citizens of Belgrade need, but in fact the only thing they knew they were doing was doing their own promotion and that they are absolutely working in the interest of their employers on the outside. When he has a distinguished colleague, Djordje Todorovic, asks questions, to give answers to everything that is said, they are, of course, avoiding and saying -- they have not prepared you well, and you do not know what you are talking about, it has nothing to do with it. It also has to do with how, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because you need to know who these false patriots are to represent you, who will try to go to these elections, take your votes, enter the parliament and the city of Belgrade and the National Assembly, and fight here not for the interests of you, but for the interests of their own deep pocket. Confirmation of exactly what I said and yesterday I said it at the session and their lack of attendance at the National Assembly meetings, i.e. non-participation in the work of the National Assembly, they came neatly, they signed to take travel expenses, hold conferences and use all of these possible resources for their own self-promotion, not to show citizens' problems, or to say that these problems would be solved by the citizens and that is what they continue to do in the Belgrade City Assembly, where they still do not appear, and that will correct me if I am wrong, do not appear, I think for three years. So, four years in office, those three years in office do not sit in the benches of the Belgrade City Assembly, but that's why they have 10,000 dinars lying neatly on their account, so they regularly abuse all the information they come up with to cloud the eyes of the citizens of Belgrade, that they can't see the results and effects of what's done in their interest. We know that both Dragan Gilas and Jeremic and many of these tycoons are small in relation to the great wealth they have and the money they have taken from the citizens of Serbia, but this is exactly proof of their relationship with you, that they, according to your trust, are involved in the elections at the time in which they use the mandate that you have entrusted to them that, no matter how little they vote, they represent you in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade and what we need to do is not allow us to repeat such scenarios, but that those people, those parties, those persons who, by their work, work with their energy, work with their sweat to fulfill the promises they made to you before you went to the polls and voted for them. As well as when we talk about the Guardian of Citizens or any other institution that will perform those tasks, they must be aware that they are also responsible for the position they are in, and not as we had an example of Sasha Jankovic, who was spoken of by colleagues, which is that man used that position for his personal position, political promotion, so I would not say political promotion, I would rather say political trade, because he probably imposed himself on those yellow tycoons at the time, and as some possible solution that would bring all of them together from that fragmented DS, which, there, tried to sell the story that he was an opponent to Alexander Vukic. In the end, it was clearly seen that there was no opposition because it had neither politics nor an idea nor a vision. He's ruined his movement. Those members he's leading have been betrayed. The only thing he showed is that he can talk to the door with a megaphone. Neither has he ever dealt with any problem, nor has he been involved in solving this problem, and as far as we can see, all of these heirs who will come into its place, not only in the movement, but also when we talk about potential candidates and some united opposition that is seen by Dragan Gilas, I am sure they will not go better, nor will they prove to be able to do better, because what they lack most is political will, strategy, idea and vision, and that is all that SNS has, which is what Aleksandar Vukic with the policy and the "Serbia 2025" programme offers to citizens, and what will continue to be offered with the new programme "Serbia 2030" because our goal is to continue to develop Serbia, to become one of the examples of how the state develops in Europe, as it relates to its citizens and how citizens solve themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10314	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Bratimir Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10315	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I called today when it comes to the Law on the Protection of Citizens and it is a unique opportunity to call on the Protector because in this bill there is plenty of space and plenty of opportunities for me to act so we invite him to engage and start doing his job. We are often witnesses and we hear criticisms from the judicial authority, similar to them that MPs should not interfere in the work of the courts because it is a interference, for God's sake, in independence because it should be untouchable by some interpretations and what I absolutely believe that MPs have the absolute right to judge and represent the citizens who chose them and to seek the protection of their rights no matter what kind of authority they encourage and who causes them. This is exactly how the work of the MPs of the peoples I have had the opportunity, the citizens coming every month at the reception of the MP at the office I hold in the municipality of Panteleus in the city of Nis, and to remind you of the epilogue of the address of the same in the case of the Greater Court in Nis, and this occasion I apologize to the General Court in Nis because he was not a participant in the judgment of the Savic family. Just to let you know, you and the citizens, what an epilogue all of this is, and the court rulings were completely against the Savic family and the Maltenes were left without all the property based on a fake and falsified receipt for which the court did not want to quantify whether it was valid and whether it was a fake. Fortunately, the D.A.'s criminal case has raised a criminal charge against the perpetrator who committed the crime and forged a receipt that made him materially useful and left his family without property. So today he's in prison for maintenance and the prosecutor is looking for 13 years of punishment and it's not the only crime he's committed. In this way, a family who had no part in all that had come to pass was saved. Unfortunately, we have a similar procedure of the Mladenovic family from Nis who almost identically lost all assets, and from what can be concluded, from the paper they possess is simply about overcoming a suspect again, a person who was convicted of criminal acts of counterfeiting and a court when he decided not to have it in mind, and a few days ago they were left without all the property. It is the following – the late Predrag Mladenovic has agreed to buy a house for 93,000 euros. Part of it's only been paid, which is what the receipt for the bought part is about. Given that he was not registered as the owner, but as the maintainer and the house and pays the deal between him and the buyer was to establish the suit, by suing the state, he admitted to owning the house and parcels to confirm it. At the first hearing, the Court of First Instance in Nis did not accept it. Also, the second-degree court did not accept it, and it was a signal to a potential buyer to initiate proceedings before the court to inherit the property, to collect the property he allegedly paid. That's why he submitted documents that are completely falsified, nor does the birth number match, nor is it signed by the seller on the receipts. It is symptomatic that the Supreme Court participates in these judgments in Nis, and it is not possible to bypass the perpetrator Miljan Trajkovic, because he always appears when it comes to such judgments and when leaving a family without a roof over his head, Miljan Trajkovic is always there to judge. Most symptomatic, although the Ministry of Justice has given the opinion that the enforcement procedure must be terminated under the law until the desert procedure is completed, it is not acted by urgency, but rather by urgency, because look only at the date of August 1st, 2021, Predrag dies of stress and of the torment that has beenfallen him unfairly to remain without all the property he has acquired for years. On August 25th, therefore, an interim representative is assigned, although it is contrary to the law, because it had to stop the execution to complete the desert procedure. A few days ago, a family, a son with a mother, thrown out on the street, simply have nothing to live on and where to live, and this is an invitation to the Guardian to reconsider these judgments and to simply see what this is about. I think that, that's my personal opinion, that MPs have to stop and have to disclose these things, because it's strange that the prosecution has found in the previous proceedings, when it comes to Savići, that there are elements of criminal responsibility, the same way, the same method, the paper was not artificial, there was no artificial evidence that was presented to the court, unfortunately, not this time with the Mladenovic family, and therefore my call to the Citizens' Protector to engage in such a problem and to try to protect the citizens who remain without all the property they have acquired throughout the working century. It is also an opportunity for the Citizens' Protector to protect the family and, above all, the children of President Alexander Vukic who suffer daily threats, pressures, blackmails, and all sorts of things that are not normal and what are not for normal people, but who are persistently silent and there is no attempt in that direction. Here, as we pass this law, there is space and there is the possibility that the Protector in full capacity can react both at the end and the children of Alexander Vukic are citizens of this country and are followed by protection and they should certainly be protected from such behaviours. They accuse, complain about the actions of SNS MPs, and when you heard here in this high house that someone mentioned anyone's children and does anyone know what they call the children of Gilasov, what are the names of the children of Vuk Jeremic, what are the names of the children of other politicians? Not once, I never had a chance to hear anyone's children mention it, but that's why the children of Alexander Vukic are mentioned daily and several times during the day. It is my call to stand in the way and simply to keep children who are citizens of Serbia protected as the law requires and as the rules say. So, as far as the opposition's concerns are concerned that the SNS will pass in the next election, I tell them not to worry about it, citizens are the best judges, and they've always given a fair court, and so I hope that they will be in this election and let them not worry about it, let them take care of themselves to convince the citizens of all that they did in the previous period until 2012, and I am sure that they will not need such power and will not vote for such power. Long live Serbia! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10316	Thank you. I'm setting a regular break. We'll continue the debate at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10318	I thank you, chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Dr. Orlic. The Honorable leadership of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, at this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking in particular about amendments to the Bill on the Protector of Citizens. These amendments bring this existing Law on the Protector of Citizens into line with certain legal norms, standards and principles of the European Union, or the European law of the AKI communitress. It also complies with certain standards of transnational organisations such as the OSCE and SIGME, in order to further improve the law. Also, the new law is much more inclusive and allows a much larger number of people to have the opportunity to become a Simeon, meaning not only a graduate lawyer, but also a person who also dealt with this topic in his working century. Of course, by not sacrificing that criterion of integrity, honor, but also intellectual subjugation. So that's very important for choosing that face. I would continue with the speech delivered at the beginning of today's session by Dr Martinovic, the head of our parliamentary group. Dr. Martinovic, who is otherwise a doctor of legal science and a professor at the Faculty of Law, well analyzed the work of the i.e. of the state body, i.e. the Protector of Citizens, in some previous period. In fact, we were talking about Sasha Jankovic, a man who instead of defending the citizens, defending the rights of citizens, representing the people of this country, he exclusively defended his own political particular interest. Why do I say political? Well, as we know, he was also a candidate for president. So someone who has abused it is an eclectic example of abuse of their function that needs to be outside of politics, he directly used that function to get some political points, which is really embarrassing. I'd like to add another important piece of information. Since I graduated from the Faculty of Political Sciences and in one of the lectures Sasa Jankovic was a guest, while he was still a Twin. Sasa Jankovic boasted at an international conference at the time that he supported a Chinese dissident, although the state's position at that time was not to do so, because we are inheriting excellent relations with the People's Republic of China. He boasted to us students that he was not interested in the government's position, but that he had left on his own, attended the conference and that he had defended the dissident's human rights. So he consciously put his own personal interest above national, above national interest. Sasa Jankovic, in his recent interview, admits himself to being politically involved, politically involved, and that certain foreign embassies did everything and recruited various people in order to violently bring down the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. He's not a Galactic anymore, but I certainly wonder where that institution is when someone threatens President Alexander Vukic and his family. The logical question arises, is Alexander Vukic a citizen of this country? Is his family, is his brother Andrei, father Angelko, mother Angelina, are his children citizens of this country, his whole family? When someone offends them, no one reacts. No other news associations, independent associations, representatives of the civil sector, NGOs, then absolutely no one reacts. So there's one concept that it's all allowed, unfortunately. So I simply have to stand up for these people, because we testify that almost every day various monstrous, disgusting, monstrous lies and lies are directed to these people. You are comparing some members of the Vukic family to some monstrous criminals. Well, is that normal? And no one will judge it. So, some journalists on various Gilas and the school's retail televisions every day, week after week, give very primitive insults and comments to the president, on account of his father, his brother, his son, Daniel. Even a little Vulcan, a baby, a little Vulcan, and he blames them for something. Well, is that normal behavior? I'd like to bring out an interesting piece of information here. In Britain, which is certainly in certain theoretical debates, perhaps even the cradle of democracy, there is an institution, in London more precisely, in Hyde Park, the most famous, called “Speaker’s Corner”. This “Speaker’s Corner” represents one stage, and I will now briefly explain to you what this is about. It's one stage where there's a microphone, a sound, and every citizen can express his/her/her/her/her/it attitude at any time of the day or night. This "Speaker’s Corner", which is supposed to be a symbol of democracy, is often presented by various young unaffirmed artists, various music groups, but also by representatives of the civil sector, various political organisations, political parties from abroad, but also by the UK, various NGOs, their leadership. This is about the widest possible range of topics. But there's one rule, there's one ban, and that's insulting their head of state. In that case, it's their queen. So you can say anything, you can sing, you can talk politics, you can talk about culture, about art, some personal problems, but you can't insult the institution of the head of state, or queen. With us, in our arrangement, in our political system, the head of state is certainly the President of the Republic, it is Alexander Vukic. Therefore, I believe it is necessary to pay special attention and to particularly punish it when someone threatens and insults the institution of the president. Is that Alexander Vucic, or is that another president, here I am only talking about now, the institution, the President of the Republic, the head of state, he must be respected, because he was elected directly by the citizens in the elections. The other day, our President, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, gave one interview on one television and during the talks, a journalist presented to the citizens a video of former President Boris Tadic making the most disgusting and monstrous lies at the expense of our leadership, at the expense of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and at the expense of the entire government and all the results we have achieved. Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, in a dignified way, commented on it and did not think of it coming down to some level to insult Tadic, although Tadic is someone who, I say, has ruined this country, someone who fled to Romania when Cypriot terrorists declared independent Kosovo, that is, when it was started with the pogrom over the Serbian people. So Tadic was a coward, someone who devastated our army, along with their ministers, melting our tanks, destroying our entire dedicated industry. Not to mention the kind of economic, economic or whatever problems we've been in. At that time, the salary was at the lowest level, minimum earnings at the highest level, inflation was constantly oscillating, the reference rate was at an abnormally high level, the unemployment rate was over 25%. So the country was completely devastated. It is normal for such a man, Tadic, and the members of his yellow Camarill, the yellow family, to put certain criticism into his account, to say what he did with his camel for this country, and yet what he did for his own pocket and for his own political position. Our President, Aleksandar Vukic, with a lot of respect, gave the journalist an answer and, in a kind of dignified way, acted. I repeat, special attention must be directed towards this and must be particularly punished if someone offends the institution of the president. I was just doing this analysis, believe me, every day in these Sollaks, Gilas media, on various social networks, on Facebook, on Twitter, on Instagram, on numerous social networks, daily insults the president of the Republic of Serbia Alexander Vukic, threatens his children, threatens little Milica, threatens little Vukan, he is a baby, he is said to be a criminal, without any proof, without anything. Guys, is that normal? Is it normal for you to refer such words to an honest, honorable, Serbian household? Even if we except that the president represents one institution, they're honest people. This Danilo, he's a good guy, a nice-looking guy, someone who's a real Serbian host, a young and perspective boy. And you're telling the most monstrous lies, the most pathetic words you can use to describe him. It's a shame. I hope it doesn't happen again. I'm sure decent and advanced Serbia will win. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10319	Thank you. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to assign a member of Parliament to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Momcilo Vuksanovic, elected from the electoral list "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children". On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Momcilo Vuksanovic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask that he prepare himself to take an oath. Dear People's MP, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath to repeat the text of the oath after me. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms, and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. "I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Allow me on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf to congratulate you on your election as MP and wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. Thank you. We're moving on. Since we've reset the system, please reapply. I'd just like to remind you, according to the agreement, the vote should be around 4:30. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10320	I guess I'll be done by then. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is a saying that a lion hunter should not spend ammunition on rabbits. But here, I'm going to step away from that saying and talk about certain rabbits. Yesterday I brought here a tank that was intended for Zdravko Ponoš and Mr. Sutanovac. Their reaction to social networks is not very pleasant. But I'm still gonna talk about rabbits again and I'm gonna save some ammo for lions when the time comes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my message to Mr. Sutanovac and Mr. Zdravko Ponoš is this: that citizens have the right to protect against aggression, that citizens have the right to the sovereignty of their country, that citizens have the right to the territorial integrity of their country, and that this right has been denied by the former rule of democracy. It is known that they agreed with the US Embassy that during the second election of Mr Tadic, Albanian presidents do not declare independence, right, fellow Martinovic, until the second round of elections is over and Mr Tadic becomes president of the Republic again. Boris Tadic took the oath on 14 February 2008. Albanians respected the deal that Democrats Borko Stefanovic, Vuk Jeremic and the team made with the Americans. They influenced Albanians who declared independence February 17th, 208th. In doing so, the Chief of Staff didn't lift a finger. Sutanovac had other things to do, and Boris Tadic fled to Romania. Boris Tadic has crawled into Romania, and these mice or rats from the former regime are white in someone's mouse and rat holes. However, there was no reaction to the very possible loss of part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Then what does the army serve us? What are the barracks for? What do we use our weapons for? My God, if they wanted to respond to the question of whether they had anything to do with it, because they had previously agreed with the Americans to destroy most of the weapons and weapons of the Serbia-Montenegro Army, the Yugoslav Army, or the Army of the Republic of Serbia that was intruding the NATO Pact, or the Americans. Especially on target were tanks. A total of over 400 tanks, 120 armored transporters, 50 hoods, over 9,500 rockets, a total of over 10,000 missiles, but 9,500 missiles of M2, or whatever it was called, 1,500 tons of ammunition, 23,000 rifles. So that you can fully arm another army in the Republic of Serbia. But instead of a well-armed army, they created a well-armed army, instead of a military neutralised state. If they wanted Sutanovac and Tadic's sister-in-law, the tank, and they wanted Zdravko Ponoš and the team had nothing to do with it, because they already agreed that Ohio is more important than Russia and than getting weapons. They've already agreed to disarm our army well. If they wanted to defend the territorial integrity that they are, the question is whether they could, which and with whom to defend, because there were no weapons, and, for God's sake, all the officers who defended the territory of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska's territory were sent to The Hague. Everything The Hague asked for they extradited and thus demoted and left an officer's image out of the possibility of defending their country. They then launched famous shoes to mask everything. The two girls who stole the shoes were more important than Tadic's escape to Romania while his country was crowned. It was more important than that Zdravko Ponos and Sutanovac do not move with a small finger to protect the state of Serbia. Our citizens, apart from the Guardians, have an army that protects them from any possible aggression. The Americans were particularly disturbed by that M2 arrow that was tearing down their tomahawks, which are grateful targets for that kind of M2 missile. That is why they were particularly disturbed by the missile system and were seen to destroy it and thus, in some other possible aggression, easier to bring down the Republic of Serbia, or threaten its territory with some new aggression. As far as the Citizens' Protector is concerned, I didn't understand whether he should have 10 years of experience in work or 10 years of student experience. I didn't quite understand if she should be 10 years old and more experienced in her studies or at some... (Alexander Martinovic: Work experience. A, work experience, and study is an experience. So, I'm still claiming that the Citizens' Protector is a lot of two shifts. So, yes, like those customs officers who said, what to give him for his birthday, let's give him another shift. Like -- don't -- there's a lot of two shifts. I still think what I said before, that the salary of the Protector of citizens, who mainly protects his large salary, must not be higher than the salary of the President of the Assembly, the salary of the President of the Republic, etc. And that they can't come to us here from the height of their pay. I'm not asking that we have such high wages as they do, but that they share fate and bread together with MPs who go through election cycles, campaigns, homes of culture. I'm the guardian of the villagers, I admit it. So, you should come to the election campaign to see your colleagues who went through the villages blowing cold in those homes of culture when the election campaign, how the villagers can and can swear, etc. The protection of citizens is protected from all of this and it has four or five times the salary of the President of the Republic and the President of the Assembly and is not responsible for anything. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I responsibly claim that I have received more citizens face-to-face and talked to them about their problems than the Protector of the Citizens. They put in that statistic and phone calls they got, then they're packing it up for us in the report, but I'm saying that the Citizens' Protector without his assistants and deputies didn't make direct conversations with the citizens more than individual MPs. I believe there are enough active MPs who are also more citizens who are receiving and talking to them, which in the National Assembly, which is home, which is at the polling base. So, each of us, in our own way, is talking to the citizens. The phone conversations we're getting, we don't sign up to talk to citizens, we know about how many citizens we've talked to. My average is three. I do not believe that the Citizens' Protector face-to-face receives three citizens a day, but therefore has three or four times the salary of MPs, president of the Assembly, president of the Republic. I will never agree that these independent regulatory bodies and bodies and their deputies have higher salaries. The privilege of each of the MPs comes by most of their cars, and they have cars, specialized services and so on, they have and love everything they love young people, and as far as I can see, when they come here to the Assembly, we listen to their reports, and the minors look at us with heights, we have four, five times the salary, what we have to talk about with this boranium and so on who have four times the pay. So when some of the laws are on the agenda about these paying classes, we'll take good care of it and see if the Citizens' Protector, the Trustee, the conspirator, that Shabic he was, is perhaps going to resign if we reduce the wages to the MPs and, let's say, on the salary of the National Assembly president, and leave them with all those privileges of a good car, gasoline, all the public spending, which the MPs don't have. People's MPs here at the National Assembly when they go to the cafeteria to feed themselves, I don't go for six years, they're mostly the subject of discussion in the media and so on, the pricer and I don't know what, although we don't have our own restaurant, the restaurant belongs to the Joint Affairs Authority, which is at the same price, all the Republic authorities supply, it's our only space. However, we are always subject to some disgust. Look, ministers and MPs have such privileges, but when we do get to the various independent regulatory bodies. Look a little bit, try to check, it's forbidden, to see what salaries these leaders of NGOs have, especially those financed by the West, to support the Ponosh, the Sutanovac and so on, we'll just get to the scary wages. So, to work for five or six times the salary, to destroy the image of the MPs, and to God and the image of the state. So my message to the Citizens' Protector is next, and last time I asked, I hope they're watching the transmissions, given that this law concerns him, therefore, to answer us, when he's going to start protecting citizens' rights regarding the transfer of the most important events, i.e. sports events that belong to him, are included in the list of the most important events of interest to all citizens. The Law on Electronic Media, a member of 64 that Solak and Gilas do not respect, says that all citizens in the Republic of Serbia have the right to directly transfer games that are included in the list of most important events, qualifications for the world and European championships, and the last four or five years of that right have been deprived because the law says that this is exclusively the right of media covering the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia to have free access. Thus, all citizens have the right to monitor sports events, or events from the list of most important events. Then Solak and Gilas showed up, and now there's no such thing. So it's transmitted on cable televisions that don't cover the whole market and the Citizens' Protector needs to read Article 64 on behalf of the citizens who are deprived of that right to say, check my allegations. The law on electronic media, and it says, if there is an abuse I am putting up with, for the protection of citizens, I file a criminal report against Sollaku and Gilas, and then I'm going to think, maybe, and talk less about his little salary which is four, five times bigger than ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10321	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic. The word has a national emissary, Sandra Jokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10322	Thank you. Today we are discussing amendments to the Civil Protection Act. The role of the Protector of Citizens is important for improving our society and protecting the citizens first. The Protector of Citizens takes care of the protection, promotion of human and minority rights and freedoms, and the Law itself directs the Protector to pay special attention to the rights of members of national minorities, children's rights, the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of persons deprived of liberty and gender equality. The solution ahead of us will certainly provide additional support that the Protector is doing his job effectively, as he can initiate the procedure even before all legal resources are exhausted before the authorities of the administration, including on the issue of national minorities. Since 2012, the Republic of Serbia has made a significant effort to integrate the Roma national minority as much as possible in our society. Co-operation with national councils is the key, as is the conversation, listening to problems and working together to solve them. It is a feature of SNS policy and President Alexander Vukic. That's why I'm sure the Guardian will take a proactive role, because the environment in which we live, frequent and unconscious discrimination, intolerance and intolerance towards those who are different, by something different, whether it's skin color, religion, or origin. We all remember that shameful verdict of a judge who was more involved in self-promotion than with his call, by calling the judge, and toward a Roma child. I wonder if that would have been the verdict if it hadn't been for a Roma child? According to him, it is normal for Roma children to be forced to have a relationship, to be forced to marry because, according to the judge, it is a normal phenomenon for members of the Roma community. As a member of the Roma national minority, I want to point out that early marriage, a child's marriage, is not part of tradition. We've had a huge insult, labeling the whole community, and that's unimaginable and completely wrong, especially when it comes to children. If it moves away from stereotypes and prejudices, it goes towards discrimination, then to violence, and we cannot allow it. Therefore, the Citizens' Protector is obliged to react proactively. That's why in the voting day, I'm going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10323	Thank you very much. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic. The word is made by MP Stefan Srbanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10324	Thank you, Your Honor. Most of my colleagues spoke today about what marked the mandate of previous Manchester, Sasha Jankovic, and indeed, I could agree and agree with everything they said. However, if there is something commendable that could be said about him, if I may say so, it is what he said recently, and we all know what he said, that there are certain structures and centres of power from abroad and in Serbia that want to bring down Alexander Vukic and that they also asked him to be part of the story. He didn't say anything new then, that's what we all know and what SNS MPs talk about and often talk about here in this high house, but wherever they have the chance. Every democratic state should have an opposition and should have a constructive opposition that will force the government to be better in all segments and will try to give some plans, ideas and solutions that can be useful. But what we get from one part of our opposition is that they are exclusively and only stared at Alexander Vukic's medical and medical records, waiting for his heart to stop and take advantage of this morbid situation to regain power, which is indeed, I say, morbid and at least scandalous. Again, I said that this is something we are talking about and that we will constantly warn citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You, Mrs Obradovic, mentioned today in one part of your presentation of the European Commission's report. The European Commission's report was objective, and through an analysis of relevant aspects, it showed Serbia's progress in many areas and also showed segments where further work needs to be done. But these initiatives really have the potential to make tangible progress if implemented. Here, above all, I also think, as an example, of constitutional reforms, which are at the end, which are in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission and the implementation of the electoral reform in line with the OSCE recommendations. But somehow you have one part of the public in which when you get such a report from the European Commission that is positive, he seems to be out of line. Then when he's less positive or negative about Serbia, he's great. So you also have certain parts of the opposition and certain representatives of the opposition that go to Brussels exclusively and only when they ask the European Commission to put pressure on Serbia, so they go and ask them why sanctions are imposed in Belarus and why, for example, are being imposed in Belarus. in Serbia they do not impose sanctions, or they have used all their resources to bring and attract Europarliamentaries to intervene here in dialogue and when people come and say – okay, people, there are some parts where you can make some progress, but election conditions are good, you have to go to elections. The moment they said that, they were no longer desirable by those same ones. And every day or every week in their media, they try to let them know that they are no longer welcome in Serbia. Now, that's a picture and an opportunity for today's Serbian opposition. As SNS MPs, we really try to make sure that when we talk about some of our results, we support it with facts and we don't say anything at all. If we talk about economic results or some reforms, we always take as a typical example of what we do, we take the support of the IMF or the World Bank, if you will. There are no two more relevant world organisations dealing with this problem than the two organisations. But whenever they say something positive, it turns out that part of the public that I mentioned, as in the case of the European Commission, that they are working for the benefit of Alexander Vukic. I am really wondering – so if everyone and the IMF and the World Bank, the European Commission, if everyone is working in the interest of Alexander Vukic, he really needs someone to let him know that he is not only the president of Serbia, but that he is one of the people who manages the world. I can't come to a different conclusion on all this. I must say, too, that in March of the month, early this year, we adopted the 1992 report for 2020. I honestly have to admit that I didn't study that report in detail at the time, but that in the last few days, because I knew what we were going to do, I was able to read the entire report. Indeed, I've seen some parts that I don't understand, which I really think should have been better explained. Physical and verbal assault, demeaning, humiliation, discredition of journalists continued in 2020 and no progress in the area of freedom of speech and expression was recorded. Well, why was there an increase in attack on journalists in 2020? Well, because more than 30 journalists were beaten and beaten up in the July 2020 savage riots. Well, who beat them up? Well, the same ones who get into RTS with motor saws, who threaten journalists who won't answer their questions, who promise to close certain media houses the moment they come to power. It is those who are fighting for the rule of law and for the freedom of the media in Serbia. They're the same. I'm hoping that the Lincoln report for 2021 will be more positive, because there's really no country in this world where you can go on television, which tends to get a national frequency, swear on your mother to the president of the state, and that's how it all goes. If it wasn't for SNS MPs and certain officials, it would have really gone unnoticed. If it's not freedom of speech to say something like that, say something like that, I really don't know what it is. Then you have one part where the Protector said he pointed to a harmful tabloid reporting and publishing names and photographs. Every seven days, a picture of Danil Vukic on "Today", every seven days. They still say it's dangerous to say his name. What if it wasn't dangerous to say his name? If they say it every seven days and draw him a target, putting his paintings on the front pages, so I don't see that they're missing anything, none of them, any of those reporters. They get absolutely every answer to every question they ask any of us, first of all, the president of the state. However, dear Mrs. Obradovic, I assume you find that more interesting and pleasant. The elections are really fast, the elections are in April, in spring and it's really nice to watch these fragmented parts of the former DS get back together, go to some columns. It really doesn't matter if it's in one, five, or ten columns. There is the same ideology, the programme is the same, hate for Alexander Vukic and the SNS, an attempt to seek out those who will support them in the world, I think, above all in Europe, in the region, for their retrograde attitudes, so they get support from those who are bothered by the fact that Joanikije is enthroned in Cetinje, whom he is so-called. The smuggling of coke and boys in northern Kosovo and Metohija is a good thing, but they also forget that the country was created on the smuggling of narcotics, weapons and trade in the organs of the Serbian people, Serbs above all. It's really nice to see them all gathering together, hiding from various ecological movements and associations, trying to shake down and bring down Alexander Vukic. But what I am certain and convinced of, and you, all the MPs, and you too, Mrs Obradovic, is that only the government for SNS and Alexander Vukic in the upcoming elections, which expect us in April 2022, are the defence team and such, and only they are definitely something that will prevent these retrograde attitudes, and retrograde politicians, and people who have turned black in this country until 2012 to regain power again and again and again sit on the back of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10325	Thank you, Mr. Srbanovic. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Citizens' Protector certainly is a constitutional category, and it is obvious that conditions have been created since the establishment to pass a new, more modern law on the Citizens' Protector, harmonising his work with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, improving his efficiency in work, but also increasing his responsibility for his work. In fact, for several years back there is one tendency to so-called. independent state authorities set up as the fourth branch of government. And it is up to us to the MPs and all the members of the government that we are fighting to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which says there are three branches of government, which are legislative, judicial and executive, that these three branches of government complement each other and that no fourth branch of government exists under our Constitution. There are independent state authorities. One of the independent state authorities is the Citizens' Protector, the DRI, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Energy Agency, not to mention further. However, we have had the situation here in the National Assembly that the holders of certain public functions identify themselves with the state authorities and act as a state body before the National Assembly that has estranged completely from the National Assembly. By the Constitution and by law, all these independent state authorities report their work to the National Assembly and correspond to the National Assembly for their work. What does that essentially mean? The National Assembly has more responsibilities and one of the responsibilities is the supervision of the work of both the government and the authorities of the state administration and the ministries. The National Assembly does not have the capacity to do this alone, so for public finances we have DRI, for human rights, for citizens' rights, for the work of certain authorities of the state administration that is related to human rights violations, freedoms, etc. We have a Protector of the Citizens. They are essentially helping, or doing some work for the National Assembly. In the election of the Protector of Citizens, we, as MPs, are transferring part of the sovereignty we have received from citizens to the Protector of Citizens. I said all of this because in previous years we had very bad experience with the holder of the function of the Protector of citizens, who identified himself with the function, who thought that his work was not responsible for anyone, that he was above the law, that he was above the Constitution, that he had the right to do whatever he wanted, that the National Assembly was not that state body to whom he was responsible for his work. Ms. Minister was then a National MP, and she knows very well what I am talking about and somehow, already months ago, one question arises – are the members of the family of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and do they have the right to enjoy the full protection of all the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia? I can say that, firstly, those of us who are involved in politics and who are in public functions, that was our choice. Our work implies that we must also have a stomach for the various low blows that we will be exposed to, whether from our political opponents whom some consider us enemies, whether from the public court etc., but members of our families have not chosen and decided to be politicians and therefore their security, their dignity, their peace of mind no one has the right to threaten. Now you see this first release from the legal system and the protection of state authorities, members of the family of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, was launched by the very Protector of citizens, firstly more seriously, firstly. It seems to me that it was 2014, in 2015, when the Citizens' Protector concluded that Andrej Vukic's kidneys attacked the pendejos of a rogue group of gendarmes. What does it really look like? It was about this controversy here in the National Assembly, even once and for that time the Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic said a sentence that I consider to be a state-of-the-art insolence, which was roughly like this – that Andrej Vukic asked me for help and protection, and I would give him protection. If we look at the bill and the current law under which Sasa Jankovic acted, the Citizens' Protector is acting on application or on his own knowledge and initiating the procedure. The Citizens' Protector then felt that he had no obligation to use all the legal powers and protect the brother of the President of the Republic, but expected the brother of the President of the Republic to ask him to do so. Every time we mention it, we need to know the next fact that a citizen, including a brother of the President of the Republic, has no right to use force against a state authority and certainly does not have a proportionate use of force in relation to a stick that has a rogue or outlawed member of the gendarme. Now you see how far that goes. Not only did he not initiate the procedure, but he began to initiate a procedure to provide him with documentation on a disciplinary procedure conducted by the Interior Ministry regarding the incident. That might make sense if the D.A. didn't file a criminal case either. From that moment on, no state body before which the prosecutor has officially submitted a request for implementation and collection of the information has the right without the prosecutor, the consent of the prosecutor of any paper to give to any other state body, or even to Sassi Jankovic. Here in the National Assembly there was a whole campaign that the MPs who supported the former regime made it a dictatorship, because you know it should have been very successful that the kidneys of Andrej Vukic attacked the gendarmes. This is the beginning for which members of the Alexander Vukic family are exposed today. I don't need Sasha Jankovic's later and subsequent mind that he was forced to do so by the foreign ambassadors. I'm not interested in the ex-post mind. I'm interested in why he accepted it, why did he do it, why did he participate, and what was the ultimate goal? We see here that the ultimate goal was to endanger the safety of the president's family and destroy the reputation of the same family. Let's move on. It's not the only one, there were plenty more. Just to remind you that he also attacked the Department of Defense for a tragic incident, where he again requested that certain documents be delivered to him even though the prosecution conducted its own procedure. As far as I am aware of the current law, and according to the proposal of this law, it says that the Guardian of Citizens is not authorized to control the work of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Justice and the Public Prosecutors. We even had here one session of the National Assembly's competent body where Sasa Jankovic persuaded the MPs that he had the right to document the investigation without the consent of the prosecutor who conducted the investigation. That's what it looks like, the fourth branch of government, no farm of anyone, no National Assembly, no Government, no Constitutional Court, no court, no prosecutor. I guess that's the Serbia that Sasa Jankovic fought for, and that's our experience. There were not only more of them since Sasa Jankovic, but this was the most dramatic example of how public functions are being misused to change the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in some way in a super-democratic way. He knew Sasa Jankovic couldn't beat Alexander Vukic in the presidential election, but he also worked for years to satanize Alexander Vukic and his family and SNS, to challenge this critical mass that would lead to power or remind some colleagues who were then MPs in the National Assembly – do you know what Sasa Jankovic was looking for when he lost the presidential election? To be proposed by the SNS, or Alexander Vucic, as prime minister for the composition of the new government. That's how far it went. Now I ask another question – where are our independent authorities in charge of defending human rights and freedom? I don't expect that from the NGO sector. They receive money from the West to work on it, also Satanised the family of President and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. I know that both newspapers and public statements are not in the jurisdiction of certain state bodies dealing with the protection of human rights, but why aren't they advertised, why aren't they convicted, because they may be scared or feel they don't have an obligation to do so? You can't protect people's rights and freedoms up to half, but you can either protect them or you can't protect them. That's the problem. Let every Protector of the citizens, whoever is elected under this law, whoever is in the future, finally understand it once. He's not up to half. You don't do this job to be nice and to attack the state, the government, the National Assembly, and that's why the people love you. You are here to protect the rights of citizens and those from the smallest and most distant city in Serbia, any citizen, any citizen in the territory of the city of Belgrade, any citizen, even if he is the son of the president of the state. He's not up to half. Or not just the Protector of the Citizens. There are other officials in charge of certain rights, equality and freedoms, etc. Because it's the only way we can do that is for hate speech to come to the condemnation of an even greater part of our public. When he comes across enough of our public conviction, then they'll stop. As long as it's not always our risk of creating some critical mass that'll think it's enough to break our doors to the National Assembly, to break into the National Assembly, to repeat October 5th, to change the electoral will of the citizens, to violently come to power. It is the only way for the former regime to come to power, for Gilas to come to power, for Solak to come to power, for Jeremic to come to power. Well, I'm sorry, gentlemen independent, forget about the fourth branch of government and finally be brave enough to do your job for which we MPs choose you and don't do half, or do it or don't do it, and then resign if you don't want to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10327	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The next MP is Milan Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10328	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, esteemed fellow citizens, the Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens who is before us today is extremely important for our society, for our country, and I think that by adopting it today we will further strengthen, increase the democratic capacity, or the potential of our country, that we will further strengthen the confidence of our citizens in the institutions of our country. So, of course, like all my colleagues, they're going to support this bill that's right in front of us. What I would like to point out is that all citizens of Serbia should have equal treatment in front of state authorities, have the same rights, have the same right to protection. There must not be citizens of the first and citizens of the second order in Serbia today. There must be no citizens who can't exercise their human rights, and unfortunately, this happens in the case of our president Alexander Vukic's family, where his family is free to say, for many years, they've been exposed to factory lies, imaginary affairs, hickeys, satanization by the opposition, and even by drawing a target, or by declaring before everyone, the son of President Vukic and his brother as legitimate targets, as religious associates of any criminal groups. Regardless of what several colleagues today have asked whether the state authorities will respond to such things, and I will ask the same question, that it is fortunate that no one or possibly one colleague, the state authorities have responded and no one mentions the subject, but unfortunately, no matter what SNS deputies insist on sitting in session repeat, ask the authorities to do their job, so far it has not happened. My colleague Bakarac cited a good example in today's discussion, when he mentioned that in 2019, Pride Info Center, or window, was not broken, but was it partially damaged, etc., all NGOs, the Trustee for the Protection of Equality etc., were raised. We are not asking for anything more or less, just that even in the case of the family of President Vukica, the law is literally applied or at least approximately, as in this case I have stated. The same opposition that threatens the president's family's fundamental human rights, complains of inadequate, say, electoral conditions. That's the opposition, or rather, part of the opposition that wasn't allowed to go to the previous elections. It's that part of the opposition that wants to rule somehow without a choice. It's that part of the opposition that has called out loud for foreigners to intervene in inter-party dialogue, and when they haven't come to the expected outcome, they're no good either. It is part of the opposition led by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Zdravko Ponos and the other team from the former regime. They are free to say that the electoral conditions in Serbia have never been better, especially when it comes to opposition or part of the opposition gathered around Dragan Gilas, because it is a group that has huge money, which owns television, printed media, portals, are present on social networks, etc. Of course, that's not enough for them. For them, it is only acceptable, only satisfactory to have someone come and say – Gilas, here is your power without a choice, and he continues to rob Serbian citizens where he left off in 2012, that is, in 2013. Just when Serbian citizens think that some members of the opposition have recently touched the bottom in their misery, politics, in trade of national interests, they unfortunately always negatively surprise us. After ten years ago, at the time of Gilas, Jeremic and others introduced borders between Serbs and Serbs in Jarinj and Brnjak, the disastrous issue of regularity, i.e. the legitimacy of the declaration of independence, so-called independence, was raised. Kosovo is why Albanians celebrate Vuk Jeremic in Pristina today. It happens that, for example, Nebojsa Zelenovic, a failed Sabbath politician and religious environmentalist Aleksandar Jovanovic Couta go a step further. In today's discussion, someone also mentioned, it seems to me that it was a colleague of Bakarec, that Zelenovic and Šita included Viola von Kramon, a politician from another European state, a politician who absolutely has nothing to look for on our political scene. I come from Loznica, a town whose inhabitants through their past into the free, integrity and independence of Serbia have garnered thousands of lives, from the First Serbian Uprising, from Cerska, the Gučev Battles from World War I to World War II when Loznica was the first place to be freed in a enslaved, occupied Europe on 31 August 1941. In such a freed neighborhood, the failed Sabbath politician Nebojsa Zelenovic, the godless environmentalist Aleksandar Jovanovic Ćuta, therefore, who have a programme in their politics, i.e. to support so-called. to the false state of Kosovo, they support and advocate co-operation, they say, the institution of independent states of Serbia and Kosovo. So, mentioned gentlemen in Loznica and the village of Gornja Nedeljica bring a paid Albanian lobbyist, or lobbyist, promoter of the false state of Kosovo, Viola von Kramon. So, Zelenovic, who was driven to the elections by the Shapcans from the authorities, is now coming to Loznica and is concerned about the environment in which the Loznicans, the inhabitants of the Adriatic, Viola von Kramon, will live, a paid lobbyist who advocates the abduction of part of our country's territory, is also hoping for the environment in which the residents of this part of Serbia will live. Can anyone who is guided by common sense believe in the honesty and honesty of the intentions of the mentioned gentlemen? Perhaps we could believe in the sincerity of Viola von Kramon's intention that it was from where she met in the Upper Sundays only three or four kilometers away, in Draginac, in a place where, watch out for strange coincidences, 80 years ago, I will remind Mrs Kramon of three or four days ago, so on October 28th she was in Loznica, where 80 years ago she also shot 2,950 peasants, women and children in Draginca, or to continue in the neighboring village of Cikota where 396 civilians were shot, or later in the next village of Krivaica where 78 people were shot, with half of younger children growing up. So, these gentlemen, speaking in a place close to the largest rural site in the Balkans in World War II, God cares about the environment in which the citizens of this part of Serbia live, gives them advice, etc. Of course, counterpart Bakarec mentioned that their escorts had an ax to the citizens who had gathered, who were insolent about their arrival, because it was an insult to both Serbian victims and the Serb people in general. What I would also like to say to this occasion, that Nebojsa Zelenovic should understand, at least he should understand how long it has been in politics that neither the Sapcans nor the Loznicans nor the citizens of any other part of Serbia, because his thieving while he was mayor of Sapca has been forgotten. He was convicted of purposeless spending on the citizens of Zapco. It is not forgotten or supported by the fake state of Kosovo. It was not forgotten in 2018 when Nebojsa Zelenovic visited Kosovo, visited Pec, i.e. Albanian Mayor Peci Gazend Muhadziri, where they sat together under the Albanian flag, the flag of so-called Kosovo and the coat of arms of so-called Kosovo, humiliating both their country and their people. About a few minutes ago I hear, in Loznica, Marinika Tepic came to my town, saying she promotes the day after, to also point to any environmental problems for the citizens of Loznica, etc. There won't be a day after. The day after we saw 2012, when citizens sent the former regime into history. We saw that day after we found ourselves in Serbia, destroyed factories, workers on the street. Among others, when it comes to my Loznica, the Viskoza factories, the FAC and others that have been nailed, which Dragan Gilas and the regime he was part of, have. Maybe we're not informed enough, maybe we're not intelligent enough, smart enough. Perhaps Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and the others were visionaries, perhaps they wanted the citizens of Loznica and all of Serbia to live in a healthy, ecological environment, so they went out to meet us and destroyed all those factories, so they left all those workers on the street without a job, but they breathed fresh and clean air. Fortunately, Serbian citizens have read such a long time ago, and these visionaries will never return to power again. Those visionaries who destroyed our economy, destroyed our economy, destroyed our army. Despite their wishes and hopes that some foreign ambassadors will bring them back to power, this will not happen, as in Serbia today comes to power with the exclusive will of citizens and will never return to the time when the Serbian government will form foreign embassies and tycoons, but only Serbian citizens in the elections. Long years ago, and I believe in the future, citizens recognize SNS policy, Alexander Vukic's policy, because it is a policy that guarantees all of us a brighter future and I am deeply convinced that this policy will continue to receive great support from the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10329	Thank you, Mr. Jugovic. The word is made by MP Mladen Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10330	Thank you, Chairman Orlic. I support the amendment to the proposal for a law on the protection of citizens submitted by our colleague Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, who regulates issues that are essential for further development of good administration. The improvement of the legal framework governing the status and competence of the Protector of citizens, as well as free access to information of public importance, contributes to improving the responsibility of the state administration and transparency of its work. The law on the Protector of Citizens has been in force since 2005, and that is, you will agree, a long time ago. We also had a change of constitution in 2006. The new Law on the Protector of Citizens and Supplements to the Law on free access to information of public importance has improved independence, above all, the Protector of Citizens and Trustees for information of public importance and protection of personal data and created the basis and conditions for their more efficient and effective work. Where is the promotion of this independence of the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information? Unlike the practice so far, new legal solutions are prescribed for the President of the National Assembly to make public calls to all interested persons who meet the law of the prescribed conditions to apply for candidate status. It is foreseen that parliamentary groups as authorised proposings may, as a candidate for the Protector of Citizens, or the Trustee, propose an exclusive person on the list of candidates previously identified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This guarantees greater transparency in the process of electing the Guardians of Citizens and Trustees. Also, a much longer mandate is provided for both the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee in relation to existing legal solutions. So, for example, with the Citizens' Protector, instead of a five-year term and the possibility of re-election, the mandate is scheduled to last eight years without the possibility of re-election. This solution shall be fully in accordance with point 10. Venice principles on the protection and promotion of the Ombudsman institution. What are the new powers of the Protectors? The protection of citizens is authorised to give an opinion to the authority of the administration, therefore, to the body whose work controls the proposals of laws and other regulations, if they are governed by issues which are relevant to the protection of citizens' rights. In the current law, this type of authority, the Protector of Citizens, had only according to the National Assembly and the Government, and in the future, they will also have them according to all the authorities whose work the Citizens' Protector controls. The new legal solution is also explicitly authorised to carry out the procedures for the control of the authority of the administration before the proceedings are brought before the competent court. The circle of entities that determine the status of the authorities and which are therefore obliged to comply with this law has also been expanded. Like public notebooks, public enforcement officers as the holder of public authority, public enterprises, institutions, organisations and other legal entities established by the regulation or decision of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia or of an autonomous province or local self-government. But in addition to the amendments and the Law on the Protector of Citizens, I must also say that I condemn attacks on who knows which path to President Aleksandr Vukic, his son Danil, to the insult of his family, the demolation of the SNS premises some twenty days ago in Novi Sad by the son of Bora Novakovic, formerly a Democrats, and now a member of the Vuk Jeremic party, a man who destroyed Serbian diplomacy while he was foreign minister. A dozen days ago local elections were completed in the municipality of Negotin, from which I came, and I was there with my comrades. It is likely that the same heremics, Novakovics, Alexics, or as their trustees and their people were already called, also destroying the Municipality of Negotin, coloring the tourist signalling, colouring the trees, benches, buildings. They threatened people not to go to the election, but the result showed who they are and who we are. Should we let them destroy cities, break down SNS rooms, maybe some others, threaten people, attack people both physically and verbally? This insult by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who has the support of Serbian citizens over 60%, his family, members of the SNS are disgraceful and we must no longer allow it. In one word, I am appalled by the behaviour of political insinuators, Jeremic or Gilas party, and I believe that Serbia's citizens are also appalled by the behaviour of the former regime's leaders and members. What I can tell them from this place is that if you don't like President Alexander Vukic's policy, and you don't like it because you can't rob Serbian citizens anymore and you're worth millions of euros in Serbian citizens to exotic destinations, at least ask yourself what kind of message you're sending to your children? We will continue to fight the results for the benefit of all our citizens, and you will continue with your vandalism, your swearing, your robbery, your insult, and we will see how citizens will evaluate and who they will support in April of next year. With this policy led by President Vukic, we have built hospitals, schools, kindergartens, road infrastructure, factories, we have increased salaries and pensions, we have developed our country in just nine years, and we continue to do so. Serbian citizens recognize the work, recognise the diligence, expertise, progress, and do not want to return in the time of the yellow exotic tycoon octopus of Gilas, Jeremic, Tadic, who destroyed and sold the country to us. To all measures of support, both citizens and businesses at the time of this monster that has hit the whole world, someone will say that the state's leadership is courting the citizens before the April next year's elections, which is actually not true. I will only remind the citizens of the fact that in 2014, we had extraordinary parliamentary elections, so just before the elections were held, the state leadership implemented fiscal consolidation measures, i.e. we reduced pensions and salaries and we received elections. Of course, with the stability of both internal and especially foreign policy, which is well led by Serbian Foreign Minister Nikola Selakovic, with all the efforts of President Aleksandar Vukic and his sincere struggle for the further development of our country, we are moving even more strongly and resolutely towards new victories and we are building together a strong and economically strong Serbia for the future of our children. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10331	Thank you. The last to be reported is MP Milimir Vujadinovic. The remaining time is five minutes orientative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10332	Thank you, Chairman. Somehow on me every time it ends and to tell you the honor is what our people would say, the pub is always on me. I don't know how much we have the right to do this, a respected minister and respected fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, but since I'm the last one today, I'm going to take the opportunity to maybe recapitulate today's session and somehow do it to send a joint message from this House. Dear Minister, what is it that you would bring today as the main impression of this House's session? You could conclude that only the mention of the Citizens' Protector in this House is associated with the need to protect every citizen in this country, and don't forget, the citizen of this country is also the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic and his family. What you will surely bring as an impression is the message of this Parliament, and the message and the public that all institutions, starting with the Guardians of Citizens, ultimately you and me as a MP, must do everything in our power to protect every citizen, especially when it comes to institutions like the President of the State, and especially when it comes to what is the basic cell of society, which is family. However, the Honorable Minister, you could have noticed that attacks on the president of the country these days are not just going beyond the borders of this country, attacks on the president of the country come from some other centres that are far from the borders of this country, but what is a tragedy in all this is that an entity for such a policy of such power centres that are far from the borders of this country is located in Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia. What is also the fact that the attack on the president of the country is not missing from the region either. I especially mean attacks coming from Zagreb, Sarajevo, and rarely come from official Podgorica. These days you have seen that there are even some individuals from the Serb political spectrum from Republika Srpska who have joined such a front, but these are still just individuals. If Serbia and its president, a respected minister, drowned in this matrix of mutual attacks in the region, make sure the Balkans sinks into chaos. This path is one of the most difficult political paths anyone can take to lead a country, but it is one of the most responsible and probably one of those that is the only possible at the moment, when it comes to Serbia. This is the path of a state relationship not only towards the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, but the path of one state relationship towards all citizens and the Balkans, i.e. in the region that live with us or next to us. Dear Minister, this time only one who is a statesman, who today thinks not of the fate of his people alone, of the fate of his own country, but of the fate of all those who live with us. This is the path that the president of the state is taking today, and you, as Government, follow that path. The confirmation of this claim is also the fact that, in addition to all those political slaps that have never come from Podgorica, the prime minister of Montenegro was in Belgrade today. It is, I'm sure, and few have mentioned it today, the most important political event that has happened in Serbia today. We have seen one great responsibility for this event and when it comes to the president of the state and when it comes to the Prime Minister, we have seen their accent on infrastructure projects and everything that connects us with Montenegro and putting aside everything that separates us, and that can only be the one who has a state-owned relationship with politics both in his country and in the region. The important political event today also joined the parliament. The Prime Minister of Montenegro also visited this parliament and this was a symbolic message of support both given to the president and the government in leading such a responsible and particularly difficult policy, taking into account the political situation in which the region is today. We have also seen calls for co-operation under the Open Balkans initiative, which is the initiator, i.e. the bearer of the idea of today's president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic. Dear Minister, in the end, you have seen one great support for the legislative proposals you have sent to this House and be sure that parliament will support your legislative proposals, but what we expect from you is that you continue this policy, which is rooted in 2014, above all. To continue a policy that involves the development of the Republic of Serbia and the fight for a better life for each of its citizens, and on the other hand, a policy that takes care of every man who lives in the region and cares about regional peace and stability. This is what we MPs say first of all on behalf of the SNS MPs, although I am not an authorised representative, at this point we expect from you, from the whole government, but I am sure that this is what the public in Serbia expects, because only peace and stability can today contribute to the development of Serbia and the development of the region. You have a way, it started in 2014, it's getting very big today, you stick to that road, and you'll have the support for the law, don't doubt it. Thank you very much. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10333	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Article 48. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I give the word to the proposal's representative, Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10334	I accept the amendment. Thank you, Chairman, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you especially for your work during the previous week, and also for today's. I will look back now at the end of the debate on key improvements that bring legal solutions ahead of you. We talked today in detail about the Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens, but I will also look back at this second equally important Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter. So these solutions are fully in line with the Venice principles, which is extremely important, as are countries that are also on the path of European integration, with the Tromso Convention and the principles of the European Commission's public administration. I will mention once again that the exceptional participation and contribution in the work have been given by both the citizens' personal Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information, Mr Pasalic and Marinovic, as well as the employees of the bodies they operate. Of course, NGOs, too, are significant proposals, whose good part is implemented in these two draft laws and unforgivable, the experts of Sigme with whom we have worked intensively and devotedly in the process of preparing these two legal acts. With these new legal solutions, we have improved the way citizens' protectors and trustees are elected for information of public importance by introducing a public call, thus ensuring greater transparency in the process of their election and control by the public. The term of office of the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information will take eight years to come without the possibility of re-election. Their mandate will not stop in the event of compliance with pension conditions, but will be able to perform their duties until the end of the term of office. The Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner in the future will act independently on the organisation and work of their professional services, further strengthening their integrity of the institution's independence and legitimacy. The budgetary and financial independence of these institutions will be improved because the financial resources needed to function these bodies will not be reduced during the year. The Citizens' Protector will carry out the tasks of the national torture prevention mechanism, the tasks of the national independent monitoring mechanism for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the tasks of the national rapporteur in the area of human trafficking. The Protector of the Citizens will be able to set up and resolve his deputies, instead of proposing their choice, or resolution to the National Assembly so far. The Citizens' Protector will be able to initiate the exchange or addition of laws and other regulations and general acts, with the competent committee of the National Assembly or the Government and the authorities of the administration being required to provide information to the Citizens' Protector on the consideration of its initiative from now on. The protection of citizens will be able, without prior notice and distraction, to review not only places where persons are deprived of freedom, persons who are limited to freedom of movement, but also places where groups are located or staying whose rights are protected, and especially places under police and military control of Serbia, detention units, institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, psychiatric institutions, shelters for foreigners and asylum centres, as well as institutions for social protection provided by the home accommodation services of children and young people, as well as adults and older persons. The Citizens' Protector, in a case requiring urgency, will be able to request the reception of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and members of the Government, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Court and the official in the authorities of the administration within three days. And a few more notes on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance. We didn't talk about it today because there was no amendment to this bill, but it's convenient now, at the end of this debate, and before you plead on these bill proposals, to point it out. A circle of entities that are obliged to comply with this law - public notebooks, public executioners, public enterprises, institutions, companies in the majority state, local, regional property and other bodies has been expanded. The principle of proactive action is affirmed through the publication of as many information as possible, both on the web presentations and through the labour informer. Special attention is paid to efforts to prevent any more massive occurrence of ignoring requests for access to information by the authorities, so the Commissioner is authorized to issue infringement orders in the amount of 30,000 dinars to the person for non-compliance by request, which affects, among other things, the dispensation of criminal courts. The new law gives the Commissioner the authority to file criminal charges and has improved the powers of the Trustee with regard to forcing his solutions to be executed, i.e. fines ranging from 20 to 100 000 dinars for non-compliance or non-execution of his solutions. I have briefly summed up in these 20 points what it is that changes will significantly affect the lives of all of us within the borders of the Republic of Serbia. I am convinced that the application of these key newspapers will improve the protection of citizens' rights and the right of citizens to receive information about the work of authorities. Once again, I thank you all and look forward to your statement under these two draft laws. I would especially like to thank my associates, especially within the working group, who have prepared these two draft laws, an extremely long and dedicated work. Thanks again. Only by teamwork can we make these things like these two legal proposals. You will see that Serbia will long be praised for such proposals as these two laws, not only within Europe, but much wider. It will be in time ahead of us and you will be proud to have been among the people who voted in favour of these bills. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10335	Thank you. I find that the government has accepted this amendment. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you to the representatives of the government and everyone who participated in this debate. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, November 3, 2021, starting at 16pm and 40 minutes, as a day for voting on the remaining items of the fourth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-03-0.u10336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I'm asking Members of Parliament to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 170 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. I remind you that we've already decided on the first item of the agenda, that was the budget rebalance. Second item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE CITIZER'S PROTECTION After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting a vote on the Proposal of the Law on the Protector of Citizens, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 174 for – 174. I find that the National Assembly has unanimously passed the law, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am stopping the vote: in total – 174 for – 21, 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Members of the 8th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: in total – 174 for – 18, 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: in total – 174 for – 20, 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 23, the 151 MP did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: in total – 174 for – 20, 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to the vote a bill on the Civil Protection Act, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens. The third item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on fraud and complementarity of the law on free access to information of public importance I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle. Since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 174 for – 174. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on free access to information of public importance. Before moving forward, I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a principled search on the drafts of the law in paragraphs 4 and 5 of the agenda. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft laws, the National Assembly, under Article 160(3), will, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide only on proposals for laws in general. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 173, not one. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 174 for – 174. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners. Before we move to agenda item number six, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraphs 4 and 6. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing and the conclusion and demand of international contracts with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Guarantee Treaty (Smart Numbers) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 174 for – 174. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, and before moving to a further decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. The seventh item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to supplement the decision on termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 173, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The eighth point of the agenda. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 174 for – 174. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Before the session is concluded, let me just remind you that I have scheduled for Tuesday, November 9th, the sixth session of the Second Regular Session with agenda points: Proposal for a law on biocidal products, etc., there are 10 of them, that I do not read now. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021.
