ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5487	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honored Vice President, fellow Members and fellow MPs, my question has been addressed to the Ministry of Youth and Sports by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and in connection with a letter from the UEFA European Football House about the potential setting up of some of our Super League matches in football. I wonder what they did about this memo. How long has it been with the proceedings and has the responsibility been determined and is this claim true? What I am particularly concerned about as a citizen coming from Sandzak, as a MP representing all the citizens and citizens of Sandzak, is that one of the games that UEFA refers to is Novi Pazar-Proleter, which took place on 21 March of the current year. According to information that can be found, which refers to this UEFA letter, that UEFA is being distracted from the fact that large deposits took place on this betting match in Asia. By the way, as far as the New Market is concerned, I have to point out that the bookies in the New Market and the casinos are a virus nursery, and that the crisis staff should certainly consider whether or not they should be banned from working. If this turns out to be accurate information, I don't want to prejudge, this would really be a big mess that would have no local, no republican, but international character. Why am I saying this? The new Pazar is the city of football. There may not be a city in the Balkans and in Europe where residents, citizens of the city and those regions love their sports collectives so much, especially their football club. When I was a high school student, I regularly went to the FK Novi Pazar games, which at the time competed in the third grade of the competition, the Serbian League, for 10,000 viewers, came to watch their club and the club really needed to run legends of the club, not to be left to businessmen, with suspicious capital or some other adventurers in sports. The football club's leadership because of this memo, whether it's responsible or not, has to resign and leave the club to the sports workers. I was asked by representatives of parents whose children attend football schools in Novi Pazar to point out that it is not typical that a large number of football players on the side are in the toy drive of the football club. Why? When you bring football players aside, then they play for managers, then they play for bookies, then they play for mechanics. When he plays the kid from that football club or the kid who turned down at that football club, he'll never sell the colors of his town and that football club. That is why instead of bringing out the sundial players on the side, a chance should be given to the children of Novi Pazar, but also to the children of neighboring municipalities, because it is the only superligator, children who train football both in Tutin, and in Rasko, both in Sjenica and Prepolje and in Priboj. What I also want to point out is that it is unacceptable that public enterprises exclusively sponsor or sponsor football and sports collectives from Belgrade and Novi Sad. So we have to have this dispersion, to support sports collectives, successful sports stories with a long tradition. It's a football club that's almost 100 years old, soon to mark its existence. Such sports stories should be supported, so as not to be targeted by various white-world adventurers and people who are eager for fast money and hunts in blurry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5488	Thank you. The word is Maria Yevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5489	Thank you. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, yesterday we witnessed that the opposition struggle for the naked power had hit the bottom. Marinika Tekic, Gilasov Pinocchio, has brought forth a bunch of most dangerous lies at the expense of Dragan Markovc Palma. Gilas Pinocchio's lying is nothing new, it's a daily thing. One thing she said was that someone would end up in prison, and that would be Gilas' Pinocchio for all the lies she told yesterday. Dragan Markovic Palma was in the prosecutor's office this morning, a respected fellow MP and fellow MPs, to make a statement and demand that all the alleged witness and Gilas Pinocchio be enlightened. My question is for both the prosecution and the judiciary, in the end and for the public, until when will the situation be tolerated that anyone can make a lie against anyone, the most ground floored and the most disgusting, and not answer? This issue of mine is also a request for both the prosecution and the police and the judiciary to shed light on all the allegations from the most dangerous press conference in Serbia's history. This conference is not just about Mr Markovic, it's about us all his co-worker's wives. Today you hear only my voice, but this is the voice of all JS women who make up 60% of the JS members. These women are somebody's mother, sisters, daughters, women. These women think with their heads and they recognize JS as a party that truly supports women's activists and their involvement in all spheres of public life. We have recognized that JS sincerely respects our strength, our commitment, our courage, our responsibility and our endurance. All said is a great insult not only to the women of Jagodina, but to all the family women. I'm the mother of two daughters, one of whom is 15. How's she feeling today? How are her friends feeling? Will he have any discomfort over everything he said yesterday? Will her friends approach her and tell her – so your mother works for Dragan Markovic Palm? I feel hurt and humiliated today. Today, that's how 400 women who work at the City Hall of Jagodina feel. Is today, dear colleagues, when we're all here and we're all talking and our mouths are full of gender equality, is that how we're supposed to encourage women, with lies? Anyone can call a press conference, talk whatever comes to mind, and then say it doesn't work. Oh, my God. So, on behalf of all JS women, not just women, on behalf of all JS members, I ask the D.A. to do his job, because we have to prove at least once and show that the lied lie cannot be stronger than the truth. At that conference, a lie was told that one of the fears in Jagodina and that people were moving out of Jagodina. Nobody moves in from Jagodina, but people move in with families. I've known Mr. Markovic since I was 14. So for 26 years, I've known him as a good son, a caring father, a sacrificed husband and grandfather, as a host who respects all the traditional values of the Serbian family. Because of all that, because of all the lies I've been told, it's all hit me personally. Once again, dear colleagues, I would like to repeat that yesterday's press conference is going to have to put someone in jail. Have Gilas Pinocchio prepare a strip suit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5490	Thank you. The word is Sanja Jefic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5491	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to refer the issue to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, which refers to media literacy, or to the introduction of media literacy into our country's education programme. After the results of the survey, which were carried out in March and April 2016, SDPS MP from Nis, Predrag Jelenkovic, sent the initiative to the competent ministries for the introduction of media literacy in our country's educational programme. The issue concerned the plans of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture to introduce media literacy in education programmes at all levels of education in our country. As an epilogue of one of these initiatives and referred to the issue, it was a positive reaction to both ministries, and by implementing the initiative, or media literacy has officially become part of our education programme in secondary schools. We of the SDPS are very proud to have been initiators of the introduction of this type of literacy into our education system, because in practice it has proved that this type of literacy is becoming increasingly useful, above all, in preventing the abuses that society is exposed to on a daily basis. You will agree with me that media literacy is a powerful tool for forming a social system of values, but also for creating public opinion and therefore for understanding the functioning of mass media but also for correct interpretation of media content of the utmost importance for the future of an entire country and for creating public opinion in it. In Europe and in the surrounding countries, the term “media literacy” is used, and for this very reason I speak in this way, however, in our education system it is called – language, media and culture, although it is the same. In the end, my question concerns concrete normatives. As the normatives on the professional preparation of teachers in secondary schools are foreseen that the subject – language, media and culture can only be handed over to certain profiles of teachers not including communicologists but also graduate journalists and journalists, this question is practically an initiative addressed to the Ministry of Education by the SDPS with views and them, i.e. to include them in these normatives, in order to give them a chance to be involved in teaching this course in the education system in secondary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5492	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5493	I would like to ask the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians. The question concerns unpaid incentives for farmers, especially cattle farmers, and it says: how accurate is the number of farmers who have not received the incentives for livestock and is the deadline established until when the Ministry plans to pay the incentives completely? Also, this is a question for the Agency for Agricultural Payments and the Ministry of Finance. The fact is that in the second year of fighting the pandemic of agriculture is one of the key economic branches, especially given that European governments have declared food supply a national security issue. In Serbia, more than a million and a half people live on agriculture, and it is important that we all think together about how to maintain and improve agricultural production. The state has brought a number of measures to help farmers, including the liquidity loan of the Fund for Development, at favourable interest rates, and last year's rebalancing and budget for 2021 have allocated considerable resources for incentives in agriculture and rural development, with the aim of preventing the mitigation of the consequences of Kovid – 19. Different kinds of incentives are an important measure. Unfortunately, paying off incentives is the problem most talked about, and a particular problem is the delay in paying off incentives for cattle. I'm spoken to by farmers, mostly from West-Bag, South-Bak, North-Bach and North-Banat County. The case from Kanjija is illustrating for everyone. Representatives of the local farmers' association indicate that their demands, specifically for 20 thousand dinar incentives for each registered tow bull sold into the slaughterhouse, were submitted last year but there is still no answer. According to this association, only 10% of the demands in the municipality of Kanjiž were processed and paid. For some, the payment of incentives continues to be more than a year late. On the other hand, we are also aware that the Agrarian Payments Authority is facing problems. Due to Kovid – 19 part of the employees are absent, they receive about 80,000 requests per year, but are actually working on twice the number of cases, because a large number of requests are being transferred from the previous year. One of the reasons for hard work is that the requirements are not being processed chronologically, but are being processed first by the largest and then smaller. We all know that cattlemen face serious difficulties, reduced subsidies per hectare from 5,200 to 4,000 dinars, which is an additional problem, especially in the year of the pandemic, which is nevertheless followed by the heavy sale of agricultural products, especially live cattle. The current price of pigs, heroes and lambs is also not satisfactory. The DRI report for the period from 2016 to 2018 states that 28 billion dinars were allocated for three years from the Republic budget, some 240m euros for livestock incentives. However, the situation is difficult to change for the better. In the DRI report, it recognises as a problem that the Ministry of Agriculture did not provide a stable and predictable policy in the livestock incentives system, and three times in those three years the regulations have been amended in the distribution of incentives, and the Regulation even 12 times. Apart from heralding, the number of throats produced in Serbia has a decline, and the reason is, among other things, a reduction in the number of agricultural holdings. The average number of throats per agricultural land is slightly larger than five, and half of Serbia's agricultural land has one or two cattle, while the most cattle are grown on farms. In view of all of the above, I appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the Agency for Agricultural Payments and the Ministry of Finance to speed up the process of processing the requirements for incentives in livestock farming and, as soon as possible, pay all debts to cattle farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5494	Thank you. The word is Nina Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5495	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, I would like to refer my question today to the Ministry of Economy. It is common knowledge that water is the source of life, and we are getting closer to the time when drinking water will be as expensive as gold. There are over 700 sources in Serbia. So I'm not talking about ordinary drinking waters, I'm just saying that their use isn't as far away as nature gave us those sources. One of the not very bright examples today is the natural mineral water “Milan Toplica”, which springs in the village of Vica in the Toplici County under the mountain Duvarina with a force of 18 litres per second and there are several sources. The water filling and bottled factory with 12 more juices worked until the end of the last century and employed up to 170 workers, mostly from nearby places. Privatisation was carried out in 2003, but due to bankruptcy and the death of a single investor, production has never been restored. The privatisation agency broke the contract in 2011 and was then sold to the new owner, but production did not start again, although there were announcements. The village of Vica is known as the town of Toplice Milan, i.e. The remains of that city. This is where the Toplica River flows, and on the left there was a factory for bottled water and other products. Milan Toplica's water was rewarded with gold medals in Paris and London and won even two Grand Prijas and was three times named "Golden Winner" in Belgrade. I would add that Milan Toplice mineral water was also a former brand, i.e. A brand in the former Yugoslavia, and a lot wider. Just a few hundred meters through the railway and highway Nis-Pločnik-Pristina which begins to be built this year and it passes by the factory itself. I would add that in southern Serbia there are several spas and spas that represent the true pearl of intact nature, which are not exploited enough, and as an example I will mention several. There are the Vranjska Banja, the Kursumliska and unfortunately neglected Tink Banja. As I said today's question to the Ministry of Economy, can it encourage the production of natural mineral water "Milan Toplice" or find another strategic partner, i.e. An investor so far-known water doesn't flow into the river? This would be hope for both the population of the area of Toplica and the survival of young people in the country and the development of a tourist offer could be considered, given that the village of Pločnik, known for its archaeological find in the Neolithic era, is nearby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5496	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5497	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again in recent days, there has been a strong campaign against Alexander Vukic as president of Serbia, against the Serbian government and SNS officials. The campaign is led by the media traditionally close to Dragan Gilas who normally campaign 24 hours a day, I would say, seven days a week. The campaign is no longer about what the topic is, because they will literally use any possible topic to attack Vukic, thus also to obtain vaccines and attract foreign direct investment and invest in Serbia's weapons and military. So it doesn't matter what the subject is, it doesn't matter whether they write and tell the truth or not. It doesn't really matter if it's good for the citizens of Serbia and the state. The only thing that matters is that they're kind of packing it up in the context of an attack on Alexander Vukic and that the whole narrative is negative. Here, the latest is that they are now bothered by the setting of the monument to Despot Stefan Lazarevic, in Belgrade. Now it's not good either, and now it bothers them. So, first they attacked the monument to Stefan Nemanja, so today they attack the monument to Despot Stefan Lazarevic, so tomorrow they'll find something third to attack both in circles and so on. Now we see that many of them have become major environmentalists overnight, that they have become great environmental experts overnight, and they are even trying to politicize the subject. And if you are wondering, ladies and gentlemen, what is behind that campaign is the answer, it is an attempt to reduce the importance of any result that Serbia has achieved so far on any matter. Of course, when there are no arguments, when they cannot argue with what, almost the whole world gives credit to Serbia, then we have a campaign of lies, a campaign of nonsense, false accusations and mockery of the results achieved. I ask - how could they dispute the fact that we are almost the best in Europe so far when it comes to the number of vaccines, that we are in the world among the best countries in the matter, that by now more than three million people have been given vaccines to citizens, that more than 1.8 million people received the first dose of the vaccine, and that more than 1.2 million citizens have received the second dose of the vaccine, that 130 thousand more doses of Sputnik vaccines from Russia arrive today, that more than 211 000 doses of Faiser vaccine arrived yesterday, that these days there will be an additional amount of Chinese vaccines, that more than tens of thousands of people from the region came to Serbia to be vaccinated, that we have built two co-ed hospitals, and here we are now going to build a third covid of patients in Novi Sad, which will also be built in record time, that we have destroyed the city of Torak, who have now destroyed the city of Torac, the city of Torak, who have destroyed the city of Torak, the city, and the city of Torak, the city of Torak. How can they challenge the fact that we are an absolute leader in the region? How can they dispute the fact that in 2020 we had over three billion euros of foreign direct investment? How can they dispute when it is twice as much as when all the countries of the region are summed up, twice as much as when BiH, Northern Macedonia, Montenegro and Albania are added together, and on the other hand Serbia itself? It's about the year when the pandemic of the coronary virus, the whole world, I say, is on its feet economically, when the pandemic hit the economy of much more developed countries. How can they dispute the fact that our growth rate is among the best in Europe and the world, that we have built more roads than anyone knows how many decades ago? How to challenge the fact that from the destroyed and destroyed armies of Serbia, we have come to the conclusion that the whole world acknowledges that Serbia today is the strongest military in the region, that today we are investing in incomparably more money in arms, in military equipment than when these pests destroyed Serbia, that the defence power of our country is incomparably greater, that we are getting the most modern weapons and equipment and complex combat systems, such as the Pancir rocket system, whose power and efficiency we were able to see a few days ago at the "Responsibility 2021" military exercise, that two Miga 29 from Belarus arrived two days ago, that we continue to strengthen and strengthen our army, and that is precisely because we want to preserve peace and stability in this part of Europe, to remain a factor of peace and stability in the Balkans. We are firmly defined for peace and stability. It is the unimpeached and absolute interest of Serbia and these are the reasons why they are campaigning senselessly against Alexander Vukic as someone who is most powerful and best protected by Serbian national interests. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5498	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, we're moving on. We're moving on to a unique search on the fifth item of the agenda. You have received a proposal for a decision made by the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single investigation into the proposal for a decision to elect members of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. I ask if a representative of the promoter, which in this case is a representative of the Committee on Justice, the state administration and local self-government, wants a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The first word is Vice-President of the Muamer Zukorlic National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5499	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us with a choice, namely a decision to appoint or elect members of the Commission to oversee the execution of sanctions. A common procedural topic, or question, where we will likely accept the proposal submitted to us with an explanation and certainly support it. This is an opportunity to open up a small question and consider the very phenomenon of the execution of sanctions, the functioning of institutions responsible for these executions, their importance, their role, the situation, because, despite the fact that prison institutions are dealing with so-called persons with the margins of society, the troubled persons, it should not in any way mean that it is a less important issue. It's a very important topic. Those who line up through prison sanctions are an absolute minority in society and thank God for that, but we know very well that no matter how few, otherwise, there are few, to say, criminals or offenders of any kind, in no way should be underestimated. They must not be underestimated as a problem, nor as a danger. On the other hand, they are people, they are citizens of this country, and even when they are criminals, even when convicts they must be treated as humans and they have the right to be legally sanctioned. Therefore, this topic, of course, may not be in the fullest sense of this word or in full capacity, but should have a more significant place in our discussions and discussions and here in the National Assembly, but also on other intellectual media and other public occasions, because in the end we are very often engaged in justice, we are very often dealing with the entire sector of security or the sector of coercion in this country, but the issue of the functioning of prison units, i.e. at the execution of prison sentences and all kinds of sanctions, is actually the final act of establishing and implementing justice and the functioning of the justice system. That's why he deserves attention, not only from a legal point of view or by a legal aspect and attention from a sociological and any other aspect. Of course, that I'm going to make certain observations here that I have on the basis of available information, but also based on the insight into the space I'm coming from, we have a prison facility in Novi Pazar that's been functioning for a very long time, it can be said successfully. For years, however, certain problems have been observed. First of all, this facility is located in a place that is not suitable for one such activity to function in full capacity. She's been here since the 19th century, and that's why she's in a place where she shouldn't be. It may have been once, when Novi Pazar was a townie, then maybe it was an adequate place, maybe there was a periphery. Now it is the position of a rope or a wider, more specific or more precise, wider city core or a wider centre of Novi Pazar. So the New Pazar prison is located in a very populated part of the city, thus expanding the city center, i.e. the New Pazar centre. There are even some interesting things that are on the verge of laughter, so it's a prison unit that's being placed in a building and it's not just the purpose of the building. There's a prison unit in the same building, there's a music school, there's an archive of the city, and there's a culture department. So all of these four institutions, or all of these four purposes, are located in one building that is primarily known as prison. I don't know if there's any other example in this country where there's been this much imagination to position this many institutions of different purposes. So prison, music school, city archives and a culture department where artists have the opportunity to paint and perform other art activities. So this phenomenon was also a cause for funny experiences, and then the citizens sought a connection between music school and prison, and they must have found that piano playing is a common denominator of this purpose. But they're joking aside. The truth technically works. It's different inputs, so now someone doesn't think they're in the same space, but I actually want to delegate this in a way that needs to go back to the idea of moving a prison unit and building a new prison complex somewhere in an adequate space. I don't know why he cares. A few years ago, the question was open. Even then I had opportunities, it seems to me that the minister was Mr. Selakovic and that topic was current and quieted down. I think that subject should be returned again. I think it should be a joint project and the justice ministry and the City Administration in Novi Pazar, because it really is a situation that poses an obstacle to the role of the prison unit itself from an old one, but also for the other needs of the city and citizens. Especially, you know, sometimes that's where the convicts or perpetrators of various serious crimes are transported, so the security measures are too strong, so these parts of the city are blocked. If it's done in the wider center of New Pazar, as I said very densely populated, otherwise New Pazar, as you know, is quite a traffic jam, so it's all creating serious problems. So I want, this time, to actually update this topic again and call on the competent ministry, I call on the government, I also call on the City Authority in Novi Pazar to re-open this issue together, to find a favourable location and, of course, to invest the necessary funds and to remove the prison unit from this part of the city, to free this space so that it can be used for other useful purposes. So that's what I find very important, and that's why we're going to insist from this position. What I also find interesting when it comes to the execution of prison sanctions, yet it comes from experience in Novi Pazar that the prison unit, i.e. the prison unit administration, is not interesting or is not only important for the management or management of that prison. So what we can conclude is that in the last decade and a half, a political party has been insisting exclusively on holding its manager, that is, she is holding control of the New Pazar prison unit administration. So this is very interesting and it has to be explored. First of all, it is inadmissible that, in any way, the position of party policy is referred to as prison directors. That's what should be principled, and on the other hand, the question is, what are motives? What are the motives for insisting on the post of warden of prison, party, therefore, that the position of a political party is controlled, or managed by a prison in Novi Pazar? We've got all kinds of information coming up that needs to be questioned, and it's a symptom of this insistence, because why would it be interesting for a stranger to have a prison manager? So there must be motive, especially if it is about the fact that a decade and a half of a local political party is controlling the management of a prison unit in Novi Pazar. If we have very much information about that there's a clear streak in the city administration in Novi Pazar, that political party with certain criminal circles, well, that's quite enough call to check it all out, to check what's going on there, or whether there are abuses, and obviously there are, but I don't want this position to give the last word and my claims to be the last charge, but actually that the information we're getting checks. What do you do, what manipulations are there, what services do prisoners do, what privileges do some inmates have in Novi Pazar, when they can get out, how many prisoners get out right before the election? Why are they being performed, what is their role, etc? So these are very serious questions. Of course, I'm honored even by my colleagues in this political option of how I speak here in the ugly picture of the New Market. Gentlemen, that's not gonna be a way to keep my mouth shut, I'm not putting out here an ugly picture of the New Market, but actually my speeches and I'm going to insist on them and I'm not going to give up, they're actually going to point out those who want to launder the image of the New Market. So what we from the Justice and Reconciliation Party are actually going to do is actually insist on that differentiation, on that difference, on that line. We will not allow those involved in crime to have ties to organised or ordinary crime to identify with the New Market. We here when we talk about criminal dirt in the city of Novi Pazar, they tell us – you're dirtying the New Market. No, we point not to those who dirty it and actually protect New Market with this, because if we're talking not only about criminal dirt, but right now I'm sorry that in the month of Ramadan, we have the dirtiest streets in Serbia, in Novi Pazar. Now, when I say it, there's gonna be someone in there telling me from that camp, so you're embarrassing us New Market. No, gentlemen, I'll tell you one more thing, Novi Pazar, to enter the houses of the citizens of New Pazar, responsiblely I claim that it is the purest city in this country, that if there was a way to make a comparison, to determine the purity of houses, the purity of houses and courtyards, that Novi Pazar would win, that it would be the purest city, not only in this country, but much wider. But Novi Pazar is the dirtiest city in the streets and rivers. What can we conclude from that? From this we conclude that what people are, what citizens are, what people can do on their own, what is a responsibility zone, a private, personal area of responsibility for these citizens, and that's their house and their backyard, that's perfect. That is to the highest degree of purity carried out. So it's not a problem in citizens. Why would a citizen who has a clean house, a clean room, clean hallways, a clean staircase, a clean yard, why would he soil the city? So we have a problem with the organization of the city, with the organization of government in the city. What citizens organize alone in their homes and their courtyards, it's the cleanest. However, what is organized by the government of that city is the dirtiest. So these are the truths that we're not going to give up and what I'm telling you is not fiction, it's not abstraction, this can be checked. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have your friends, you have your MPs, you have all your acquaintances, you have us, you have us, you come to Novi Pazar to host you to our houses, and then you see what the interiors of the New Pazar house are, of course, the rest of the Sandzaks are currently talking about New Pazar. So that's what this is all about, so when it comes to physical dirt and criminal dirt, we don't have a problem with cultural nature, we don't have a problem with citizens, as you can often say, in the City Administration how, no matter how undisciplined, the people, I don't know you like this, the people are messy, look what they're doing. Gentlemen, wherever there is no order, wherever there is no serious authority, wherever the law is not respected, wherever there are double standards, wherever the party's members are governed by one law, and for the other citizens, there is no order. We usually say that other peoples from Western Europe are clean, neat, careful not to throw paper, I don't know, this. In 1972 or 1974, it was a general strike of municipal workers in Munich, Germany. Those fine, disciplined neat Germans, on the fourth or fifth day of the strike when the garbage was no longer taken away, began to throw garbage out of the window into the street. So it's not about whether a nation is disciplined or not. Every nation is disciplined if it has an orderly authority that holds order and applies the law. So that's what the key is. The culture of discipline, a culture of discipline, is in fact determined, or practiced according to the principles and fairness of the application of certain laws. So, of course, this is the same relationship, that is, on the same principle, we treat ourselves also when it comes to physical dirt or physical orderliness or disorder and when it comes to moral dirt, or legal dirt, or the most dangerous dirt called crime. Therefore, our request will also be made by this commission, it is interesting that it is from this party and this commission, of course I will not dispute it, I will support it for collegiate reasons because the election in the bodies of the Assembly is not disputed, therefore, that it is a common practice, but it is symptomatic why such a need is forced from one party to shut down. Why so much insistence on the need to have an impact on prisons? So, it's symptomatic of me, I want it examined, and of course, as a folk MP from both this position and from all other positions, I'm going to ask that we actually shed light on all these complaints, all these accusations and all that information. Why am I saying this? What's my reason? Well, my reason today is that despite all these screams of warning and our calls are still drug dealers in New Market, the most protected species, and this is going to be said to be the brunt of my city. So we're gonna scream against criminals and drug dealers. Until we get rid of that mess or get them back, as someone quoted me, under the shah, yes, under the shah, because that's where they belong, we won't give up. We'll hit every available means. That's why we in the Foreigners of Justice and Reconciliation won't reconcile that drug lords have the honorary status in the city administration, that drug lords can enter the police department by opening the door with their feet, even if they're brought by some common police officer from the street, that their bosses actually welcome them there and apologize to them, that drug dealers and bosses are setting up or affecting the appointment of prosecutors, judges, interns, associates, etc. We'll never get back together with that, and we'll never get back together before that. I am very careful, immediately to tell my colleagues who are probably preparing for an answer, it would be better not to respond, because I have a lot to say, and as you can see, I am avoiding and mentioning the names of the parties and the names of the people, because it is really not my goal to wage a day-to-day political and interparty war here, but it is my goal to phenologically point to dangers that are not only against each other, but these are diseases, malignancies that have serious consequences for all of us regardless of which parties supported, which parties belonged to. That's why this commission's role will be very important. The supervisory role of this commission, the oversight role of the National Assembly, is very important and of course we will insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5500	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5501	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about the subject on the agenda, which is the selection of members of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Indeed, this is one sensitive area, one sensitive topic. All the candidates that are proposed, I think they're qualified enough to do this job. We can always say that poor is the one who tries to demean others to exalt himself. That's why we can't let no one's dignity get hurt, not even a convict. These are citizens of Serbia, and I am sure that the members of the Commission, who are elected, since we have a doubtless majority, will control the execution of penalties carried out in accordance with the law and in accordance with the procedure, but just as I said earlier, make sure that the dignity of convicted persons is not harmed, make sure that standards in the field of protection of human rights are respected and that the process of rehabilitation is successful. When I talk about candidates, they are today a topic of the agenda, they are not delegated as representatives of individual political parties. These are representatives of the committees responsible. I could talk about everyone, and I have a good opinion of everyone, that they're professionals. I'll just say a few words about the chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority First. It's an honorable, honest man, a righteous man, accomplished in his profession, a doctor. As such, I'm sure he'll take good care of everyone. Make sure that the laws of this country are respected and that no one's right is compromised, and hence the right of those who are deprived of liberty. The Commission's task of controlling the enforcement of criminal sanctions is clearly prescribed. It implies looking at the situation in the area of criminal sanctions. It is also the Commission's task to propose measures to improve the conditions of life, treatment and protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty. This Commission has the right, by law, to request data, notices, reports from the competent authorities, from the Criminal Sanctions Administration and from the institutions. However, the Commission is currently submitting to the National Assembly a report on its work, informing the National Assembly of all work and tasking the National Assembly to point out the need at some point to change certain legal frameworks in order to protect the rights of persons under whom criminal sanctions and detention measures are carried out. It is precisely because parliament has a supervisory role in the work of the Commission that I want to point out certain issues to future members. For me, two questions are important when we talk about this area. First, and most importantly, it's a process of resociation. It is clear that the state has an obligation to sanction anyone who violates the law, in accordance with the law, to deprive anyone who has violated those provisions of the law. But also, the state has an obligation to provide adequate conditions for those who serve time to return to society and live a normal life. The only successful rehabilitation is the best way for convicts to be able to live a socially balanced life, to carry out their duties on the loose, to carry out their jobs in accordance with the law and in the best possible way. Successful resociation is achieved through application of programmes and treatments that should be achieved to improve personality traits, change the value system, change behaviour and promote positive behaviour in society. It is necessary for persons deprived of freedom to be trained in certain occupations required on the labour market in the time spent in prison, so that when they return to freedom, they return to work obligations rather than to return to crime. It is important for them to come out of this process as model citizens who will contribute to the promotion of society as a whole. In particular, attention should be paid to those prisoners who cannot succeed and cannot be easily involved in the processes of certain treatments. They're old, sick people, they're alcohol addicts, narcotics, as well as people who need general and professional education. They need to take specific medical, educational and stimulating measures to include them in the general treatment and thus achieve one quality objective of overall rehabilitation. According to data from the Council of Europe, which are not that old, cover the period from 2008 to 2018, the closure rate in Serbia has increased by 19.5%. Of course, that does not mean that the crime rate has increased, because this rate has increased in the region as well. In Macedonia, slightly more than 33.6%, in Portugal 27.5%, and in San Marino as much as 186.6%. It actually means something else, that all of these countries, including Serbia, may resort more often to a criminal policy that involves closure, and are increasingly using some alternative solutions as punishment. In some other countries, alternative penalties are more often decided when it comes to easier crimes. Perhaps we should apply a similar practice, of course, where possible, in order to relieve the system, so as not to burden it with a certain category of prisoners where there is no need for it. For example, in the Netherlands, alternative penalties have taken over the primate against harsh penalties, relative to sharp measures, but the process is not over overnight. This is a process that has lasted long in this country, which has been seriously approached, and some research has been carried out. Even two groups of convicts with similar characteristics were subject to certain measures. Some have succumbed to harsh prison sanctions, others to alternative penalties. In the end, the study showed that that group of prisoners who were under some sort of alternative punishment, some kind of socially useful work to perform, that the group of prisoners eventually participated in lower levels, in return, in criminal activities. Of course, I'm not in favour of post-poo insisting on alternative sanctions, but this kind of punishment should also be considered effective in those parts where possible. The prison system costs Serbia over 60m euros annually. So much is spent on building maintenance, employee salaries, food, transportation, heating. It's this amount that's necessary to operate a system that has over 10,000 prisoners and 4,000 employees. One prisoner costs the state 15 to 20 euros a day. This would save a lot of money. Of course, I only speak in cases where there are minor violations of the law. It would open up the benefits based on work in the public interest. Why not give someone a chance to repay society, perhaps to participate in street washing, parks, and similar jobs with workers of certain public utility companies? I have pointed only to some issues in this area, which I believe the members of the Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions should pay attention. I am sure that the proposed candidates will do their job securely, professionally, and therefore the SDPS will support the selection of members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5502	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zagorka Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5503	Thank you, Your Honor. The political party, Unity Serbia, will support the draft decision on the selection of members of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions in the voting day. The personal solutions provided for in this decision are considered to be a very correct choice. The Administration for the exercise of criminal sanctions in its operation must seek to fully implement the known international conventions governing this area and the members of the Commission who are elected from the ranks of the representatives of the citizens have the same control function. As a representative of the citizens and members of the party, Unity Serbia, I cannot help but look back on the parliamentary issue addressed by my colleague, the vice-president of the assembly, Mrs Jevdzic, and the event that took place yesterday, a conference of representatives of the opposition. As a representative of the citizens and as someone who has the opportunity to speak politically within his time, I here, as well as the other 249 fellow Members of Parliament, have the opportunity to say anything. I use this word on purpose, because unfortunately today is all political talk. To spit, to lower my level of conversation to the level of palace bickering, as many might wish, but it is not my manner and it is not something that citizens expect from someone who comes from an honest and dignified house like the Unique Serbia. As a representative of citizens, as a member of the political option that actively participates in the work of this Parliament, it speaks of laws, proposes, criticises and gives suggestions, respects the code we have adopted and respects this institution. As the party leader of the man I've been working with for 12 years, which we heard brutal lies about yesterday, I can defend Dragan Markovic Palm here if time allows me 20 minutes. Does a man who has 60 years of life behind him, a decade of successful business, political and family life, need my defense, need anyone's defense? Mr. Markovic has nothing to defend himself from. Behind him stands Jagodina, behind him is the result, the social programme, international recognitions, friends from all over the world, people he helped, his family and above all he himself. He's already held a press conference. Today in Serbia, anyone can call a press conference, issue a statement, and that's totally fine. But today in Serbia, anyone can make the most serious accusations without any evidence. Yesterday's cheap performance with a mounted statement by a false witness is not a struggle for freedom and justice, they say, but an attempt to totally discredit Dragan Markovic's personality and bring down my party, the destruction of the Unity of Serbia. This is a sneaky attack on our party. We don't have a problem with fighting, with political struggle, with political confrontation, but we have a lie problem, we have a fantasy problem with Gilas and Tepic. Since the day of the formation of this 12th term of the Serbian Parliament, my colleagues and I have dealt with laws, suggestions, we are one of the more active parliamentary groups and who could and could still see by the stenographic notes that we have dealt with all these months, which is one constructive policy. I feel obliged to stand behind the citizens, the women who work in the City Assembly and in the public companies of Jagodina who are shamefully targeted, because I quote Mrs. Tepic: "Every woman who wants to work in Jagodina gets a phone for socializing and the quality of socializing depends on her job." Did the person behind this war ever wonder what happened to these women? Did those women at home ask anything, mother, father, sister, friends, husband? This is an obvious example of a violation of dignity and personality integrity. Today I feel obliged to stand behind the employees of the “Tiger” restaurant, who for years work fairly in this catering facility as cooks, waitresses, who are offended and humiliated by lies. Today I feel obliged to stand behind all women of my party, officials and members, sympathisers, women of Unity Serbia, and many of us. We support and promote the work of our party, we are no air-conditioned head and blind followers. How many times have we called for this speaker and colleague Yevdzic and I to report violence, not only explicitly physically, but psychologically. We were talking about the possibilities of education to recognize this violence and that claim yesterday said that Dragan Markovic is hiding behind women is pure lakordia. The man, he already said, was in the D.A.'s office. You know, this isn't the first time he's gone and said what he's got, it's not the first time he's thrown stones at him. He has been accused as well, because in Serbia all this can be done – like this, he has been accused of having indirect and direct knowledge of the murder of Milan Pantic. Of course it was immediately proven to be a pure lie, but I just want to remind the public in Serbia what can go through – that's how it is. The right women and full gender equality are among the top priorities of our party, but there is another top priority, which is child safety. That's what we talked about in this assembly and Mr. Markovic, all my colleagues and I. We heard yesterday the most disgusting criminal charge worse than the murder. It's the work of abuse of minors. That's what a man, a national envoy of this country, a father, a husband, a friend and a grandfather of five grandchildren is charged with. Together with him, indirectly, we are accused and all of us, his close associates, officials, women of Jagodina, workers of catering facilities. If we'd known about some fancy parties, where someone's playing with children's lives at some parties, if we'd seen it, we'd have been accused of it in a sensationally mounted process. We leave it to the prosecution to determine the actors of this process, because we have not lost faith in the institutions of this state. We're the ones who keep saying that the authorities have to do their job. In 12 years, as far as I'm working with Mr. Markovic, what I've seen is a brotherly relationship with employees and associates, a friendly relationship with fellow citizens, family care. I also saw a demanding but reasonable attitude towards work, a high level of professionalism and, above all, work ethics, a handful of good ideas, projects, which some of them challenged, and even laughed and got out of context, but these good ideas always found their way and were always good for citizens, just like this last one, and this is the trip to Egypt that Dragan Markovic took a hundred health workers working in red areas from all over Serbia. We want the D.A.'s office lit up and exposed to all those behind this grotesque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5504	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children", Jelena Zaric Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5505	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's agenda is to decide on the selection of members of the Commission for the control of the execution of criminal sanctions and the education of the Commission itself in the 12th Assembly of the National Assembly, of course, in accordance with the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions and the Law on the National Assembly. The Commission is educated in the following composition: three members are elected from the ranks of members and deputies of members of the committee in which the work of the judiciary is conducted, so on a proposal from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and two members who are elected from the ranks of members or alternate members of the Committee in which the work of human rights, health and social policy issues has been part, so the proposals have been made by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and the Reduction of Poverty and the Committee on Health and Family. The term of office of the Members of the Commission shall continue until the end of the term of office of Members of the National Assembly. The Commission’s task is to carry out a control function in the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions and detention measures and to take account of the situation in the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions accordingly and to propose measures to remove irregularities and to improve the conditions of life, treatment and protection of persons and rights of persons deprived of liberty. In particular, the Commission's decision to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions will provide the Commission with a taxaneous statement of jurisdiction, i.e. the part-time work of the Commission itself. For example, in the exercise of control, the Commission takes into account the status, position, treatment and exercise of the rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and proposes measures for their promotion and protection. The Commission looks at the status, position, treatment and exercise of the rights of detained persons and proposes measures to improve and protect them. Members or deputies of the members of the Commission visit institutions for the enforcement of criminal sanctions in order to look at the situation and to know the conditions of life and treatment, attends institutions for direct insight into the exercise and protection of the rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and detainees. The Commission also requests data, notifications and reports from competent authorities, institutions and criminal sanctions authorities. During a visit to the Institute, the Commission may discuss with persons subject to sanctions, detainees, and employees of the Criminal Sanctions Office, in order to determine the facts of occurrences, events or specific cases in those institutions. The Commission shall also take into account documentation on persons subject to sanctions, detainees or persons employed by institutions. The Commission shall consider reports from independent authorities and NGOs dealing with the treatment and protection of the rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and detainees. Finally, the Commission may also request notifications and consider the reports of the Criminal Sanctions Administration and carry out other tasks of other importance for the achievement of the tasks for which it has been formed, in accordance with the competences to which it belongs. When we are at the Department of Criminal Sanctions, which is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, we should also point out the competences and powers of the Department of Criminal Sanctions, because it is certainly in close connection with the powers that the Commission of the National Assembly has, by performing its control function. Therefore, the Department of Criminal Sanctions organises, conducts and oversees the execution of prison sentences, juvenile prisons, safety measures and mandatory psychiatric treatment and storage in a medical institution and mandatory treatment of alcoholics and drug addicts, as well as educational measures of reference to a detention and correctional home. Also, the Criminal Sanctions Administration shall carry out tasks relating to the preparation of a proposal for pardoning, amnesty and parole, monitor the state and application of the rules in the field of enforcement of household sanctions and, accordingly, indicate the need and direction of the normative arrangement, but also the Administration for the enforcement of criminal sanctions shall co-operate in the preparation of the rules and carry out other tasks relating to the area of enforcement of the sanctions. What is of great importance is the fact that the Commission submits a report to the National Assembly, therefore, the Commission whose formation with the proposal today is as a item of the agenda, submits a report to the National Assembly, a report on the work, but also in the framework of this report can be found also a report on the situation or possible problems in the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions and detention, and may point to the need to amend the law or to take other actions to protect the rights of persons under whom criminal sanctions and detention are carried out. The Commission may also educate a specific database on domestic and international regulations in this area, as well as organisations dealing with the treatment and protection of persons, the rights of persons subject to sanctions, as well as the institutions in which those persons are located. I would remind you briefly of a document, which I believe has long been mentioned in parliament, and it is certainly about today's agenda, it is about the Law on Ratification and the Convention against Tortrum and other cruel inhuman or humiliating penalties and procedures that were brought in 1991. That convention was actually adopted in 1984 in New York and obliges Member States, including our country, which is why I mention this document, to adhere to the international rules that have been confirmed. Tortura is any act which deliberately inflicts pain or severe physical or mental suffering on one person, in order to obtain from him or a third party a notice or recognition or punishment for an act for which it or someone else has committed it or for whose execution of a suspected intimidation of that person or a pressure on him or a intimidation and exerting pressure on a third party or for any other reason based on any form of discrimination if such pain and suffering is inflicted by an official or a third party with the consent of the official. Each Member State shall take legal, administrative, judicial or other measures to prevent the execution of a torture act in the territory under its jurisdiction, and these shall certainly be issues which are closely related to the competences and future work of the Commission to monitor the enforcement of criminal sanctions. In addition to what I stated in 2011, we adopted a protocol with the Convention against Tortre, which we have committed to taking the necessary measures, to achieve the objectives of the Convention and to implement all members who, in particular, will help strengthen the protection of persons, the rights of persons deprived of liberty and the full respect of their shell rights. Certainly, in this presentation, I would also like to mention the Protector of Citizens, or the institution of the Citizens' Protector, with which the Commission should co-operate on certain issues which are within the competence of the Citizens' Protector and of the Commission. Namely, the Citizens' Protector provides information through its annual report on the performance of the national torture prevention mechanism in Serbia. The national mechanism performs visits to places where they were located and persons deprived of liberty can be found, but these are not only the institutions I spoke about today, but they are also police administrations, police stations, shelters, detention facilities, psychiatric clinics, home-type institutions, asylum centres and migrants, and based on information received, recommendations are made if certain irregularities in the work are identified. At a time when we are in trouble because of an epidemic caused by the Coronal virus in Europe and worldwide, and there are certain consequences in our country, we must consider this and the situation in the Criminal Sanctions Offices. According to the Citizens' Protector's Report, the situation is satisfactory, i.e. the number of people infected in the institutions is not too high to be found in some risky situation, which means on the other hand that they have all the necessary drugs and protective equipment, so masks, visions or scuffanders for that part of the Institute where their clinics are located, as well as certainly disinfectants. Also, it is concluded that they also have the necessary care and care so that the coronary virus does not spread. In line with the principle of non-discrimination, all citizens have the right to be vaccinated and to choose a vaccine and, in accordance with the principle of non-discrimination, whose application is certainly sought by those who are in custody or subject to criminal sanctions, have equal treatment in the immunisation process. What certainly encourages us is the fact that our country was firstly ready in a financial sense, and then in terms of a strong health system to endure or mitigate the blows that the coronary virus has given us. This also applies to the number of vaccines but also to the different types of vaccines that gave citizens, including those subject to certain sanctions, the possibility of a choice. Except we managed to build two new so-called in four months. A homage of hospitals that will certainly remain as two newly built hospitals when I hope soon to have an election with the coronary virus. We have also managed to enable the start of the production of vaccines at the Torak Institute where we are expected to begin as we heard in information and media at first twenty, and later even thirty million doses a year, which will satisfy the needs of the region and show again that we are absolutely leaders in the region and beyond, and even in this area. I'd like to remind myself of a good organization and a job at the Sremska Mitrovica Penitentiary, where the convicts first began to sew masks for the needs of all the convicts and all the employees of that Penalty correctional office but also in other institutions. They've been sewing over a million masks since the Coronal Virus situation started. They were later joined by the Nish and Women's Department of Correction of the Firemans. The criminal sanctions administration was awarded a silver medal by President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, to contribute during the Coronal Virus epidemic. From everything I have stated, we conclude on the great importance of forming this commission, primarily because of my control function in the area of criminal sanctions, and ultimately I want to call on my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to vote for this item of the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5506	Thank you. Since there are no more registered representatives of the parliamentary groups in the system, we are moving to the list of declared by word. The first is Dr Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5507	Thank you, Your Honor. As we've heard, this guy's commission plays an extremely important role in our society especially because of its supervisory and control dimension, because surveillance control over is necessary for every kind of social activity, especially this guy where we very often have different kinds of complaints from people who are arrested or convicted because of the layering of different types of crime. Of course, these complaints can be established or not, and it is therefore important that the commission be the one to verify and participate in the checks of all these complaints because it is very important that all those rights guaranteed by both the Constitution and the laws of each citizen of this country be respected to the full, and of course those who are in the executions of criminal penalties, their sentences in prison units. Also, it is very important that we have both vision and complexity, the complexity of the entire system of prisons and detention units that are different categories, different types, different orientations, with different capacities and of course very different conditions available to those who are serving their penalties. Today you have heard from the president of our party, Academywoman Zukorlic, in what state the prison in Novi Pazar is, which is indeed one of the examples that we should focus on and react urgently to, for several reasons, create a complex that will be moved from the city centre, which will not be directly in touch with other institutions, especially cultural institutions, significant institutions, because there is, as you heard, a music school which is the only music school in the region, the wider region, therefore, and where talented children who come to adopt knowledge from music very often meet with what they should not meet when they grow up, grow up and adopt other things that need to fertilise their hearts, but not in this way meet with everything that is not quite favourable, especially at the stage they are in. Therefore, it is very important that we have really mechanisms, along with all the other efforts that the government is making to improve all the quality of the overall life of Serbian citizens, to improve the conditions of life of convicts in all detention units so that they can prepare as best possible for socialisation and rehabilitation, a possible return to social frameworks that will not be at the expense of citizens and not at the expense of themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5508	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5509	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the selection of members of the Commission for the control of criminal sanctions. We from the JS will certainly vote in favour of this proposal, because as a party that holds to justice and justice, we certainly want to ensure the most correct conditions for Gilas Pinocchio, Marinika Tepic, while maintaining the fine due to the said disgusting lies at yesterday's press conference. Mrs. Lie, as we may call the mentioned Gilas spokeswoman, and I consider myself to be following politics from my student days, long ago, and to know that this was one of the most detestable and disgusting press conferences in the recent history, the Serbian multiparty system, has brought out so many disgusting lies, disgusting lies, insults, deceived and disturbed the public and citizens of Serbia, that such behaviour, that such a manner of political struggle should not and will not remain unpunished. Such a procedure of political struggle must be punished and, at 9 o'clock today, JS President Dragan Markovic Palma, himself, went to the D.A. and asked and demanded that the statement and demanded that the Prosecutor's Office and the competent investigative authorities and judicial authorities, as soon as possible, give all the references from the conference held by Ms. Tepic. She also showed a video of the so-called video at that press conference. The witness, under the assumption, and I claim to be a false witness, and I will show you very quickly why I claim to be a false witness, who was clouded by a face, who had been disproved by a voice, but who claimed that it was a witness who worked for Dragan Markovic Palm, that it was a witness who did what they said to be a banned Hotel "Alpha" in Končarevo and who would present the facts of what and how it was done in that hotel where he allegedly attended these events. If it were a false witness, we had a little problem with it after that press conference, and I'd ask the camera to zoom in on these photos, you can see from the next pictures. This picture, this photo, is part of a photo from a press conference showing an hour or so. insider, i.e. witness to Marinika Tepic. By investigating, we found a picture of a man with the same watch. Here, you can see here, please camera zoom in. Then, investigating further, we came to the next picture, it's a picture, look at the man in the blue sweater with the red ribbon that was taken in that video. This is the false witness who gave the most disgusting and disgusting lies at the expense of Dragan Markovic Palma, Jagodina, women in Jagodina, etc. Below we can see a picture of a man in the same blue sweater with a red ribbon in the middle, how the pecks and the marbles along with Dragan Gilas and Borko Stefanovic, at a conference due to the two-year existence of Gilas' party. We see that this is about the same man. Even Gilas, who is known to have a lot of money, and that while he was in power, he worked for himself, unlike Dragan Markovic Palma, who worked for the people, did not find it appropriate to pay the man or buy another sweater to change him. Here's this man here in the picture, next to Marinika Tepic, next to Gilas Pinocchio, or Mrs. Lie, please zoom in. Who is this man? The man's name is Branislav Radisavljevic, and in this picture here you can see here he is doing a campaign for Gilas' party in the Republic Square, and an anti-campion of a city government official in Belgrade. Who is this man? Branislav Radosavljevic is a man who was born in Belgrade, who lives in Belgrade, Branislav Radosavljevic is a man who until about a year ago was a member of Vuk Jeremic's party, the People's Party and we can see him here at this desk running a campaign for the party, a man who was in the party of Vuk Jeremic, and a radio campaign for a boycott, here he is also surrounded by Vuk Jeremic himself, and this is the man who, along with the vice president of the party Vuk Jeremic, Mr Jovanovic, crossed over or resold, whatever you want in the party of Dragan Gilas and this man, is here surrounded by the Press Conference, Dragan Dilas, about two years of existence and his famous party. In that statement, the man said, among other things, that he was afraid and that he had not gone public before, and that man said that he was scared and that that's why his face was foggy and that his voice was clogged, but in this photograph we can see that this man has everything but fear, because one of those who fell violently with a saw in public service in the RTS building. This and such actions are not carried out by someone who has fear and fear. That's why we said it was a false witness, that he was not a witness, or official, of Gilas's party, and this is all one of the ugliest and worst entanglements of one political party and one man, who pleads to lead the country, who pleads to lead the people, but in a way that this people will deceive and lie, as he deceived him, and lied while he was in power. At the press conference, this false witness said he worked at the Alpha Hotel, whose owner, he claims, is Dragan Markovic Palma. In 2010 and 2011, hotel Alpha was then owned by the late Radovan Vassic Fast, one of the largest and best private entrepreneurs in the city of Jagodin. After his death, the property was inherited by his son Vladica Vasic. Dragan Markovic Palma has nothing to do with the property of that hotel, that's one thing. So he didn't work for Palma, if he even worked there. Second, they haven't guessed in years, since the Alpha hotel opened in 2012. So in 2010 and 2011, certainly no one could work in that hotel. At that press conference, Mrs. Lie, or "Gilas Pinocchio", she said, saying Dragan Markovic Palma is hiding behind women behind the skirt. That's not true, of course. I know what he meant by Deputy Mayor Maria Jovanovic's statement and by Mr Dragan Markovic's statement that she will be sued by all women employed in the Jagodin City Assembly and in the public enterprise. And she was afraid, of course, of that, but that's her thing, because she threw away the pomace and a series of most disgusting insults to all the women employed in the public sector in Jagodina, and it's their right to sue her for it because they want to preserve their honor. But certainly, it is not true that Dragan Markovic is hiding behind it, because Dragan Markovic himself went to the Prosecutor's Office today. Dragan Markovic Palma was at 10:00 p.m., today I held a press conference in the City Assembly. And whoever's hiding behind Marinika's skirt is exactly Dragan Gillas. All the time he's been pushing that lady's lie out of his Pinocchio, who, day after day, deceives the public, and brings out the ugliest lies against the individuals who are successful, who work for the benefit of the people and the people. This causes great damage to both Serbian citizens and the state of Serbia, and the manner of political struggle, once and for all, must be put in the way. Dragan Gilas wanted this press conference, and we understand that, to draw attention from the fact that he was exposed to secret accounts in many exotic countries. He wanted to draw attention from the fact that it was discovered that during his reign he worked, first of all, for himself. He wanted to draw attention from all the affairs that rocked him and his party. Dragan Gilas must understand that there is a measure and way of political struggle. Apparently, nothing is sacred to Dragan Gilas. How then do we believe in his false tears a year ago, mourning fate, when he allowed it, or not to allow it, but poured out his lady's lie, Marinika Tepic, that she would tell the ugliest lies against the man who is both a son and whose mother-in-law can also see the news, who is also a husband, whose wife is also the wife with whom she lives in a marriage, consistent, for more than 40 years, which is not the case with the aforementioned, to tell the ugliest lies about the father of two sons, to tell the ugliest lies about the mother-in-law, to tell the ugliest lies about the father of five grandchildren. You know, those kids aren't small anymore. Then you wonder how hypocritical someone who, when it comes to bitter crocodile tears, and then facelessly, macholy, in the worst possible way, with the most disgusting lies that same Dragan Gilas attacks people who have spent their entire political century, so to speak, spent working for the people. There is one difference between Dragan Markovic Palma and Dragan Gilas. While Dragan Gilas was in power he worked for himself, Dragan Markovic Palma, lives for actions concerning the people and Dragan Gilas this press conference will not prevent them from continuing to work for the people of Jagodina, for the people of Serbia, to take care and care for the poor, for the pregnant, for the births, to take care of their citizens, to provide them with free transport, to ensure free holidays for students, to take care of farmers, to take care of the doctors, which we took to Egypt a few days ago, and we will lead further, and 1000 to Greece, and we will again lead a hundred to Egypt in October, and no one will stop us in that, especially Dragan Gilas and his lady lies. So, there's only one thing I can tell Dragan Gilas. Dragan Gilasu, you're a burglar. You've been broken, but not just by us from JS, but, first of all, a long time ago, but you've been broken by the people, the people have seen who you've seen, what you're doing, what you're doing in power, how you're lying facelessly. For that reason, the people will never trust you again. They're free of money, free of wealth, but the people won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5510	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Neven Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5511	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today ahead of us with a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions. As counterpart Žarić Kovacevic explained in her presentation, the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government established this proposal, and based on the Law on Criminal Sanctions, which found that the Commission consists of five members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the National Assembly. The Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions has an important task when we talk about the functioning of the penalty system. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions found that the Commission has the right to access the Institute, data that are of importance, and also has the right to visit convicted and detained persons and to hold talks with them. The commission also has the right to speak to employees in criminal and correctional institutions. What is also an important task of this Commission is that it has the task of considering the status, position, treatment of convicted and detained persons, the exercise of their rights and of proposing measures concerning the promotion of these rights and protection. The functioning of criminal and correctional institutions is an important aspect of the overall functioning of a single state. It is in these institutions that there are persons who have committed various crimes, who are sanctioned for them and who are in prison. The aim of the criminal sanctions system, i.e. the process of resociation, is to affect the reduction of the crime rate and the prevention of the same. Accordingly, it is very important that the process of resociation and reintegration be successfully implemented and in accordance with the legal provisions. The responsible and sound policy of President Aleksandr Vukic is also reflected in the effectiveness of the functioning of the Administration for Criminal Sanctions, in the taking of epidemiological measures and measures to prevent the coronation of the virus. Very quickly, vaccines were provided for persons who are in the holding of a prison sentence, immunisation was carried out in a timely manner in all criminal and correctional institutions. The administration has shown a unique example of care for the convict population since the start of the vaccination in Europe, by making it possible for individuals who are also present in the maintenance of the prison sentence to provide this type of protection against the virus Kovid – 19, which all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia had. Immunisation was carried out in criminal and correctional institutions in coordination with the competent homes of health, and every convicted person and detained person who expressed their desire to vaccinate and receive the vaccine. What is also significant is that among the employees in the criminal sanctions system, there was a good response, and more than 40% of the people who applied for the vaccine were vaccinated, and most of them were rehabilitated. It is precisely thanks to the responsible functioning of the workers in the penitentiary system, respect for epidemiological measures and timely immunisation of persons found in the maintenance of the prison sentence, that there has been no spread of the virus's corona in criminal and correctional institutions. Prevention measures began to be implemented and implemented before the declaration of state of emergency was announced last year. It has worked intensively to preserve health, both convicted and detained persons and persons employed in criminal and correctional institutions, indicating one responsible approach to the serious pandemic crisis that has hit us. The criminal sanctions enforcement system requires a continuous work in the process of improving the conditions and way of functioning of this system. Constant intensive construction of new and reconstruction of old pavilions within the criminal and correctional institutions is something to be constantly working on. It is important to point out that the Ministry of Justice, following President Alexander Vukic's responsible policy, has been making efforts for years to improve conditions for the stay of convicted and detained persons, which is a commitment under negotiating Chapter 23 for EU membership relating to the judiciary and fundamental rights of citizens. It is also working intensively to improve the capacity of the Administration for the enforcement of criminal sanctions in the area of alternative sanctions and post-penal protection of convicts. The penalty system is one complex system that requires integrated access to all services within the penalty system. That is why I really see the important role of the Commission, whose members we are choosing today. The Commission for the Control of Criminal Sanctions has an important role to play in considering all these aspects concerning the functioning of criminal and correctional institutions. Therefore, in the voting day, I will support this proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5512	Thank you. The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5513	Dear Vice President of the Assembly, Honorable Doctor Orlic, dear fellow citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I was selected in the Assembly from the list “Alexander Vukic – For Our Children” and represent the United Peasants' Party. I, as so far, will support all these high-quality bill proposals concerning improving the development of southeast Serbia, the better life of all Serbian citizens and those living in the country and the village, including those who have done some evil, and those who have done something bad, and those who have done the worst. And we have to give these people a chance, we have to give them the chance to live normally in that closed space, in those four walls, because they deserve it. Otherwise, our Assembly will propose to a committee that will follow this, work and within that to provide specific suggestions, certain objections, and the essence of all is that all those people who are in these closed spaces, in prisons, have secured the basic conditions that they can function, because in prisons are not just people who are murderers, dealers and rapists, there are people who have had some traffic violations, who have had some kind of traffic accident, and so they've come up with something unwanted. That is why we here in the Assembly and our fellow MPs will be working on the ground, monitoring the situation, and if something is wrong, they will solve it, alarm it and do so. a supervisory function that is our duty as an MP. Once again, I support all these proposals, and I think it is necessary to adopt them as soon as possible and, normally, to follow what is important, that every citizen of ours should receive the vaccine, to immunize, to protect ourselves from this pandemic, which must be the most dangerous thing that has happened back 50 years and over. I think it's a need for all of us, that everyone has the right to receive a vaccine, and even those who are in prisons, who have done evil, who have done bad things to people and who remain there while they live. We need to be human and we need to provide everyone with a vaccine, and that is how I call on all people to be vaccinated and to solve the problem with this pandemic. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5514	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5515	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I will try to be as concise as possible in my presentation today as possible, so as to leave enough time for my colleagues to debate. Today, we have before us a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The Commission itself is educated by the National Assembly in accordance with its legal competences, and the tasks and responsibilities of the Commission itself are clearly defined, i.e. the Commission's decision on the education of the Commission and the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions. At the beginning, it is very important to note that the Commission is educated by five members, i.e. the Members of Parliament, three members of the Committee of Justice, as well as two members of the Committee, whose responsibility is social policy, health and human rights. The president of the commission is elected from the ranks of members of the commission, and the mandate of a member of the commission ends on the day of the end of the MP's term. It is important to say that the tasks of the commission are, above all, aimed at seeing the existing situation in the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions. Also, if there is a legitimate need for this, the Commission can propose measures to remove irregularities, as well as measures to improve the treatment of convicted persons, respect for the fundamental rights of convicts, as well as the conditions in criminal and correctional institutions. When we talk about persons in relation to whom the law on the execution of criminal sanctions can apply, we are certainly talking about two groups of persons. On the one hand, persons subject to a certain detention measure by the competent authority, i.e. the detention measure, as one measure to ensure the presence of the accused and, on the other hand, to persons already in custody following the decision of the competent court. The execution of criminal sanctions results in a general, or individual purpose of their pronunciation, which is what is most important, which is the reintegration of convicted persons in society. If we consider the term of punishment ourselves, we can view it as a prescribed social reaction which is pronounced by the competent national authority, in this case by the court, in relation to those persons who committed certain crimes or who committed a certain offence by their actions or by their actions. Our Criminal Law is clearly decident that if a person commits certain illegal conduct by means of his own action that violates the law prescribed by law, a prison sentence can be imposed. But it is very important that if, according to a certain person, you impose a prison sentence, that all fundamental rights, all fundamental human rights and fundamental rights relating to the convicts are respected in this procedure, because what is the key to the execution of criminal sanctions is the resociation of convicted persons in society. The consequences of the resociation and how the conditions affect criminal and correctional institutions, while at the same time affecting the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Therefore, the initial basis for this procedure is also a strategy for the development of a criminal sanctions system, which defines the continued improvement of the conditions in which sanctions are implemented. The aim of these measures is to increase the rate of reintegration of convicted persons into society and on the other hand, to reduce the return of criminal acts. The Department of Criminal Sanctions in its composition has criminal and correctional institutions, county prison, criminal and correctional services for women, for minors, foster homes and a special prison hospital. However, it is very important that if the competent court directs a person to a sentence of imprisonment, that the procedure be fully followed by all the rules laid down, and in particular that the principle of non-discrimination is respected, that no convict can be placed in an unequal position more than the other convicts. The criminal sanctions administration takes various measures and activities from year to year to improve the conditions in criminal and correctional institutions, all in line with EU standards, which is very important to point out. And this is done continuously from 2013 to today, and the clear indicators of this are building new capacities, as well as the expansion and reconstruction of existing capacities. Here I would like to point out that in 2013 he started the work of the Padinska Skela Penitentiary Correction Institute, with a accommodation capacity of 850 places, and that he was reconstructed by an existing Criminal and Repair Office in the Padinska Skele, with a housing capacity of 150 seats. But also, the Ministry of Justice and the Department of Criminal Sanctions, almost every year, work and make significant efforts to improve the infrastructure and quality of correctional homes. Evidence that as a state, we have made maximum efforts, in order to ensure that the treatment of convicted persons is in line with European principles and statutes, the EU Council Report of 2018, which says that there has been a reduction in overburdening in Serbian prisons and that bigger problems with housing capacity have been experienced by individual EU countries, such as Malta, Greece, Belgium, etc. All this clearly speaks of the intention of the competent institutions and the Republic of Serbia to make significant efforts to improve the conditions in criminal and jurisprudence homes and in the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions, as they have done in almost all segments of life. Since the Department of Criminal Sanctions is an integral part of the Ministry of Justice, we have been witnessing lately and uncompromising the fight against organised crime and corruption. This fight, above all, aims to reduce the overall crime rate and a clear and decisive position when we talk about fighting for a better and healthier society, because fighting organised crime is not only a fight against all types of crime, but a fight for new investments, new jobs and a better picture of Serbia beyond its borders, which we have been doing since 2012, by bringing certain legal and sublegal acts, as well as actions on the ground. I believe that the formation of the Supervisory Commission is another step in improving the criminal sanctions system, which will contribute to transparency, legality and in order for Serbian citizens to gain even greater confidence in institutions, as well as the state's intention to work each year to improve all segments of society. In the voting day, I will support the stated decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5516	Thank you. The word has Sanja Lakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5517	Justice holds both land and cities and justice and justice in a democratic country should be present both in the National Assembly and in the government and in the street and in the courtroom, but justice and justice must be present among the prison walls. We, as a democratic country, must respect the fundamental rights of all citizens, and even those citizens who once dared to trample both justice and justice and the laws and the Constitution of this country, because that is what every democratic state does. One of the Commission's primary tasks for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, whose members we today choose between MPs, is precisely to propose measures to remove irregularities and measures to improve the conditions of life, treatment and protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty. Simply put, the Commission is here to talk to persons deprived of freedom. The Commission is here to take care of their lives, but the Commission is also there to take care of every man. Thanks to the measures implemented by the Commission and the measures implemented by the Ministry of Justice alone in the past years, it has really been a great force to improve the conditions for persons deprived of liberty in criminal and correctional institutions and has achieved significant results. Efforts have been made to meet all the obligations we have on the European path. Efforts were made to meet all those obligations arising from Chapter 23, one of the most demanding chapters, chapters related directly to judicial reform and the fundamental rights of all people, the fundamental rights of all citizens, and even those who were deprived of freedom and had really significant steps in this. Today, we can say that just about 20 years ago, 15 and 10 years ago, she shot at those two points, shot at judicial reform and shot at basic citizens' rights. That's the Serbia that wanted to go to Europe 20 and 10 and 15 years ago, but she wanted to go to Europe with a macadam and a wagon. She wanted to go to Europe by not respecting the fundamental rights of citizens and implementing absolutely failed judicial reform. It is Serbia, which was at the bottom of the European scale, respecting the basic rights of citizens and overbooking in criminal and correctional institutions. It is the same Serbia that has carried out terrible measures at the Pozarevac Penitentiary, the unique institution of this type in the Republic of Serbia, the institution where women, mothers and minors are located. It was an institution where we didn't even have minimum conditions. It was an institution that was absolutely overbooked by capacity. Today, it is no longer Serbia that shoots both in the judiciary and in the fundamental rights of citizens. Today, Serbia understands the Latin real non-religion, work, not words. That's why the Pozarevec Penal Institute, where there are women, mothers and minors, looks like this after renovation and after construction from 2,200 square meters. We've solved the overbooking with 160 additional accommodation units and by implementing different programs we're helping them resociate. It's not a loner's case. Serbia also cares about other capacities. Serbia takes care of its infrastructure. We did the same thing in Sremska Mitrovica, where there is the largest criminal and correctional institution in the Republic of Serbia. We built a 316-person building. We do the same thing in Kragujevac, where one of the most modern prisons is built the capacity of 500 people and we do the same, i.e. We did it in Panchev, where one of the most modern criminal and correctional institutions is not only in Serbia, but in the whole region, because this country finally realized that we needed works, not empty words and dead letters on paper. Therefore, I want my dear colleagues, who will be elected today as members of the Commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions, to put behind them and the works, not just empty words and dead letters on paper. I want them to be served with justice and justice, for in the end, justice and justice keep both the land and the cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5518	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5519	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have before us a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions. Of course, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly, this Commission is formed by members of the Committee on Justice, from members of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, from members of the Committee on Social Policy. What I would like to emphasise is that the competence of this Commission and how important it is in the protection treatment of the visit of the criminal sanctions office, as well as in cooperation with all competent institutions, with the civilian sector dealing with the monitoring of the status of persons in the Criminal Sanctions Offices. What is significant for this Commission is that the Commission will submit its report to the National Assembly, so that all MPs, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will have the opportunity to get acquainted with the work of this Commission, as regards controls and treatment of convicted persons, as well as staff working in institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions. What I particularly want to point out is that the Republic of Serbia is firmly on the path of the European Union, that the Republic of Serbia today cannot be measured by anything with that Serbia that the SNS inherited in 2012, so it cannot be measured either in that part of the criminal sanctions enforcement administration or in the institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions. I must point out that the Republic of Serbia was last in line with the European Union's measures at the time of the government of the yellow tycoon company, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, when it comes to overcrowding of prison facilities and a highly inhumane condition for the accommodation of all convicted persons. Today Serbia is showing its other face. Today, Serbia by the number of accommodation capacity per 100 convicted persons is in front of countries that are economically much stronger than us, such as France, such as Italy. In France, the burden of prison facilities on 100 is 116, in Italy 115, and in the Republic of Serbia, the burden is 109 convicts in 100 places. What I also want to point out is that unfortunately in 2003, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zoran Djindjic, was killed and tragically injured. What I want to point out is that after his murder, the action “Sabbe” in which 11665 people were detained and arrested was carried out. The Constitutional Court for the "Sabbe" action in its later report said he was not in agreement with the Constitution, especially when it comes to violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms, and it concerns police detention without a court ruling for up to 30 days, the inability of detained persons to defend, to prevent the right to strike, to endanger many human rights and freedoms. The threat of human rights and freedom is a characteristic of the government, the yellow tycoon enterprise, because all they did was past the Constitution and the law to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. All of course detained, without any reason and without any legal basis, demanded compensation from the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia paid millions of compensation for the largest number of persons then brought and detained by the Constitution and law. The million-dollar compensation goes up to six million dinars for one person who, of course, initiated the lawsuit and in that lawsuit received compensation for illegal detention and detention, of course. Today, the Republic of Serbia respects all rights, all the human rights of all its citizens, both all citizens and of course those citizens who are in jail. In addition, the fact that they have been reconstructed, reconstructed and fully constructed since 2014 means completely new from the foundation of the KPZ, among which by European standards, according to the interior, by human conditions, by human approach, we can boast of a built prison in Pancevo, which extends to 24 thousand square meters, which consists of 10 objects in which there are special rooms for people with disabilities, which is completely under video surveillance and, of course, in line with the highest European standards. What I also want to point out is that convicts from the Panchev prison participated in a cross-border co-operation project with a prison in Timisoara. The project included 20 convicted persons from Pančev, but what is the point of the project is that in these activities, convicts are trained for some occupations that will later serve them when they are released, such as fruit-drying, vegetable drying, and other jobs. This treatment of resociation and how important it is in the KPZ, in doing so, the Criminal Sanctions Administration and how it works. Many programmes related to the change in the behaviour of convicted persons are implemented, the acquisition of new knowledge and skills, in order to become useful members of society by getting out of prison, and how you have reduced relapse, i.e. the possibility of returning to prison conditions. Today, the Republic of Serbia adheres to the basic principle, which is the equality of all citizens in the exercise of all rights. The authorised representative of the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – for our children" highlighted equal treatment and convicted persons when it comes to protecting their health. So, all those who have expressed their desire are vaccinated. The institutions had enough tests to determine Covid's existence. A very small number of the infected were in prisons. So far, this data is 0.2% of the total number of prisoners and of course what it has pointed out is that convicts have also shown solidarity and humanity in the course of the Kovid pandemic by sewing masks for both prisoners and staff, but also beyond. The Electoral Group "Alexandar Vukic – for our children" in Voting Day will support all proposed candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5520	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Sanctions Commission, i.e. The Commission, which should have controlled the prisons, had it been justice, had it been in the truth of the independent judiciary, had there not been a known reform, and an independent prosecutor's office, had there not been a famous 2009-2010 reform today, these members of the Commission we will choose would have been able to appoint today to attend the prisons at the General Committee of the DS, or parties to the former regime. It is certain that their wealth, their paradise of the rich, rests in hell of the poor. They were not poor and people without a job from 2000 to 2012 but because of them. It wasn't poverty that made the poor then, it was the rich who brought out huge amounts of money or huge sums of money, and so not only robbed the citizens but also left the money out of all streams. If they hadn't fired 400,000 people, if they hadn't robbed the rest, had they not left underpaid unemployed and poor, today the second song would have been singing, that is, the effort and the time we've invested to correct their mistakes, constantly attacking us not to solve the problems they've made in 12 years. We didn't solve these problems quickly, and we didn't. It took a few years to hire all those who fired them. People have been wandering the suburbs without a job, individuals without bread while on various islands of Seishel, Kukov, Mauricias, etc., they have deposited huge amounts of money. The money was not only robbed, it remained out of circulation and has further affected spending in the Republic of Serbia. If the money had been paid to the poor and hungry, they would have spent that money in supermarkets, not to take it out to which islands and certainly that budget revenues would have been far higher. Just to remind you that pension donations were 54%, and perhaps more, what the state of the budget touched, because there wasn't enough money in the PIO fund, so the state had to touch 54%. Today, these donations seem to me, between 20% and 30% if I'm not mistaken, which says that pension funds are fuller, and they're fuller because 320,000 people are newly employed, or we're employed by what they fired, because the only safe job they had was in the public sector. Three hundred and twenty thousand people with an average salary of over 500 euros each month are 160m euros more in consumption and about 100m euros more in health, pension funds, in local and other contributions to go, I think 72% in personal income. So the state, municipalities and citizens can spend more than 160 plus 100 each month, somewhere around 260m euros, which comes out more than three billion euros annually in consumption, which through VAT, excises, etc. Enriches the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, their crime is so much to me that I can rightly say that there were rights and justice, that there was an independent judiciary and an independent prosecutor's office, that they didn't choose aunts, nephews, sons-in-laws, etc. in that judiciary, if people from their own party hadn't chosen to take care of them, today the Commission could certainly go to Central Prison and prisons within Serbia, the main committees of their parties because they had in the statutes of their parties a provision that they could freely steal. If Al Capone had fortunately been alive or unfortunate during their reign, I think he'd be a tiny fish of spit for them as criminals. He'd be so small, he wouldn't even be admitted to the DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5522	Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5523	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected citizens, of course I support the Commission's choice to control the execution of criminal sanctions. I see the composition of the Commission is extraordinary. I'll pick up where Mr. Risticevic left off with his extraordinary speech. I'll list a couple of examples of double arches in connection with the execution of criminal sanctions. Journalist Dasko Milinovic was attacked by two attackers on 16 April this year. He's got minor hand injuries. I strongly condemn the attack on Dasko Milinovic. Fortunately, the attackers of Dasko Milinovic were arrested immediately, two of the three. One's on the run, but he'll be arrested, too. We see that, and I must make that clear, the attackers of journalist Dasko Milinovic are the great enemies of Serbia. The prosecution in Novi Sad is already under trial against all three defendants and I hope that all three will go to criminal sanctions. As you can see, the authorities reacted lightningly. The attack was convicted in all the media and related to this proposal – for example, the members of the Commission will be able, when the time comes, to go and check how criminal sanctions are being imposed against these three bullies. However, everyone forgot, whether our memory is so short, that two years ago, journalist Dasko Milinovic, then leader and participant of the Gilas protests, hidden behind Twitter's warrant and pseudonyms "West Todorovic" 29.12. threatened to kill SNS MP Mr. Vladimir Djukanovic. From the dark of the Internet, Dasko Milinovic said the following, I apologize for being so disgusting to read, but I have to quote journalist Dasko Milinovic: "Will the pig now swing Nazily to threaten him on the Internet," Dasko Milinovic said of Vladimir Djukanovic. "The fascist boar will not be told twice, you will be roasted," Dasko Milinovic told Vladimir Djukanovic. The case was reported to the High-Technological Crimes Department in Belgrade, where Mr. Milinovic was detained, the MUP characterised these threats as a threat to security, as a threat to death. Then Mr. Milinovic was detained by the Public Prosecutor's Office and after a brief detention, Mr. Milinovic was released. All Gilasovski media i.e. No Djilasovski media has condemned the threats to Mr Djukanovic, but they have all cried out and knocked about the alleged harassment of Mr Milinovic. Be careful, as if a journalist has more rights than an example of a lawyer, which is Mr. Djukanovic. Let's sink a little into Mr. Milinovic's contained threat. You must remember the great film "Banović Strahinja" and the scene in which Vlah Ali shoves on Abdulah's stake. That's exactly what journalist Dasko Milinovic wanted to do to our colleague, Vlad Djukanovic. Is this the essence of journalist Dasko Milinovic's job to hide in the darkness of the Internet behind an obscenity pseudonym threatens to kill honest people? Certainly not, but everyone forgot it and then in 2019 Mr. Journalist Dasko Milinović instead of apologizing to the public and to Mr. Vlad Djukanovic, he said – this society is in a very big problem, and the party that is ruining our lives is so powerful and so involved in everything alive. However, that we are not powerful, nor involved in all the living evidence is quite a journalist, Mr. Dasko Milinovic, who did not carry any legal sanctions because he threatened to kill Vlad Djukanovic. And to repeat, the death threats Milinovic sent to a lawyer two years ago to MP Vlad Djukanovic, he rarely condemned which media. We've seen that if you're a journalist, then you can quietly and unpunishedly threaten the death of anyone in the SNS. If they're not double arches, I don't know what they are. The second example of the double arches in connection with the execution of criminal sanctions is the following fact. Stefanovic B. was attacked on 23 November 2018. Many times I strongly condemned the attack on B. Stefanovic. Three attackers, and I'll do it again, are the great enemies of Serbia. A police officer who tried to protect B. Stefanovic was also injured. Three hours after the attack, police arrested two of the three attackers. The third one was arrested the next day. They were immediately identified, therefore arrested, processed and first-degreed. The Serbian Progressive Party strongly condemned the attack immediately after the attack. President Aleksandar Vukic said the day after the attack in front of all the media that he also condemns what happened and said -- the state reacted urgently, it showed that Serbia is not a state in which anyone can hit anyone. I condemn that attack. It is important that the state has done its job, and to say all three attackers at B. Stefanovic will, of course, go to the execution of criminal sanctions when the case is repeated, after the Court of Appeal annulled the first-degree verdict. Apparently for procedural reasons. It is proof that Serbia's judiciary is functioning. Of course, the members of this committee, when we choose them, when the time comes, they will be able to verify how criminal sanctions are imposed against these three thugs. However, a year after the attack on B. Stefanovic in December 2019, Mr. Gavrilo Kovacevic, SNS official and then a member of the city government, was attacked in Zemun, today the president of the municipality of Zemun. Mr. Gavril Kovacevic attacked more people with metal bars. They immediately knocked him out so that he didn't know how many of them there were, attacked him from behind, and inflicted multiple injuries, concussions, bleeding his head, left shoulder injuries, left arm elbows, and left armpits. Mr. Gavrilo Kovacevic received severe thrombosis as a result of the attack, and we know it is a life-threatening disease. The attackers have never been arrested, or identified, and no opposition media has reported this violence. No one from the opposition has condemned the attack on city councilman Gavril Kovacevic or city councilmen. Be careful, Dragan Gilas and B. Stefanovic. I dare say very boldly that all heads are equally valuable and the head of B. Stefanovic and the head of Mr. Gavril Kovacevic. I have repeatedly asked Mr. B. Stefanovic this way - why is Gavril Kovacevic's head less valuable than his head? Why did B. Stefanovic's bloody shirt become some sort of symbol, while Gavril Kovacevic's bloody shirt was not interested in any jilas media? Does B. Stefanovic have more civil rights than Gavril Kovacevic? Is B. Stefanovic a first-class citizen and Gavrilo Kovacevic a second? And here I'm going to paraphrase that famous Orverl sentence from Animal Farm -- all people are equal, but some people are more equal than others. Well, if they're not double arches, then I don't know what they are. Third example. Over the last few years, they've happened, I'd just be asking for a little attention, countless cases, so what I'm telling you is the first time you're going to hear, there have been countless cases of breaking the premises of the SNS municipal committees. I've been documented with dates that were attacked, broken, even burned over the last few years, more than 50 SNS rooms. Some have been broken even three times. I will quickly cross, Smederevo, Becej, Surdilica, Zrenjanin twice, Čuprica, Voždovac, Kragujevac, Lajkovac, Zvečovac, Zvečovac, Požorevic, Sombor, Sevojno, Lazarjevac three times, Čukarica, Žeznik, Petrovadine, Novi Belgrade, Savski kej, Stari grad four times, Zemun twice the same day, Novi Sad Stražilovska, Novi Sad Podvara, Novi Sad center, Čačak, Vracar, Baki Petrovac twice, Bač, Shabac, Mladenvac, Becej, Pančevo, Nis, Palilula in Belgrade. So these are all attacks on SNS rooms that have been destroyed, burned, broken, etc. Those attacks were much more than that. Imagine that only someone, anyone, once attacked the Gilas party's premises, which is not going to happen, and I repeat that it must not be shared. But, just once, then I would react immediately to the UN parliament's blue helmets, and Gilas would cry there in Brussels in the arms of anyone, and for the rooms of the SNS who had an earache. If they're not double-arshins, then I don't know what they are, but no one's gone to criminal sanctions for these crimes. Look, there were 50 of them, but I have to show you another light to throw at these facts. Since the end of 2017, Dragan Gilas has returned to politics, the number of attacks on the SNS premises has been greatly increased. I've got this on file. So, the correlation is clear, by 2018 the number of attacks on the SNS room was 10, that is from 2013 to 2018. Since the beginning of 2018, when Dragan Gilas completed Serbia's initial robbery, he has returned to politics, to date, meaning that in three years, the number of attacks on the SNS premises is more than 40. So, ever since Gilas returned to politics, the number of attacks on the premises has quadrupled. Because of the 619m-euro heist, Dragan Gilas will, if he is alive and well, then go to the execution of criminal sanctions. For people like Djilas, the great poet Desanka Maksimovic in her large part of "I am asking for a pardon" had no understanding in her song for enviouss, she was just talking about such people, but she did not ask for a pardon with them. Desanka Maksimović says – for the enviouss who turn blue from the shines of the sunny day, which enters into someone's courtyards, for the man who hates and the water because the roaches behind other people's floats and the earth, because he gives birth to the other and the villages of the flock that descends into another's house, for the enviouss who write like a snake in a crevice, if anyone's boldness has seen a beautiful word for someone's misdeeds, for the people who wish the fate would bring on the spells greater than their earthquakes, while the tongue of the fires of someone's lies, and they would watch him somewhere near. For the envious, says the poet, the emperor, they do not need worse punishment than the evil that devours their hearts. In the end, Desanka Makimovic in her famous collection of songs asked for mercy for those like us, for all the common, tortured and oppressed people. So someone could, I say only figuratively, ask for a pardon for all of us, under the precepts of cremated sandwichers, for all of us under the precepts of uneducated bots, for all of us under the precepts of ugly, dirty, evil, for all of us on-callers and marked villains, for all of us under the quote of the second-class citizen. The great poetess from Brankovina, and I end up, has asked for mercy for everyone in her song, for the naive, for those who seem to be equal, poor, rich, weak, strong, unfathomable, the one who returns from the prison, the handless and the man with the hands of both, anointed and determined by faith, called and the one who waits at the door, for them, for himself, for every man I seek forgiveness, lived Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5524	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5525	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning, to highlight the importance of this item of the agenda and the general practice of parliamentary supervision in terms of the appointment of these commissions for the control of criminal sanctions, as one of the very important roles played by the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, to appoint this committee, namely in the form of parliamentary supervision and not only to exercise supervision, but also to sort of direct all this story about the execution of criminal sanctions in that direction that the public of the Republic of Serbia, the profession and all those who follow these penological measures in terms of the execution of criminal sanctions in that direction that our community and society expect. In that sense, I must say that my esteemed colleagues who have been proposed in this commission will play an important role and all that we will get as a conclusion in front of this committee will tomorrow, in order to amend the legislation, sublegal regulations, be even more effective in terms of the various penological measures in terms of the enforcement of criminal sanctions. In that sense, let me also say that everything that needs to be done in the Republic of Serbia through this kind of jurisdiction that this commission has, to point out the purpose of punishment in that basic, to say, in the basic formulation, in the basic definition of penology, that the purpose of punishment is, in any case, not to be a repression against a man, as a perpetrator or a perpetrator, but to re-evaluate him for his resociation of his return to the community as a productive member who will no longer commit crimes. This is the essence of the commission itself that needs to accompany the execution of criminal sanctions and to see how in those correctional homes, prisons, whatever we call them in this sense, how we stand by that position. It's extremely important that all perpetrators of a criminal offence who are on trial, let's say, prison sentences, and we know that we also have different penalties for perpetrators of criminal acts in this case, in that period, use it as best as possible. We also know that many are also educated in prisons and that tomorrow they learn some good trade, that they are productive in the period of execution of criminal sanctions, but also that it is important tomorrow when they come out that they can be trained for their own life and that everything that has led them in that direction that means they commit a certain criminal act that they don't think anymore, and on the other hand that they can be trained to do some useful work that in any case the KP prison units of the former, as we called them, etc., are an extremely important story in all of this. What I would also like to point out, since, of course, different prisons for different perpetrators of criminal acts and departments, sections and everything else, as they agree in these units, is also important to highlight both the classification. In that classification, if I were to talk about it all, it seems to me that the most difficult thing to do is to re-resect the person who was in business crime. We have said a lot here in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia in terms of how difficult it is to have someone who has committed a crime of economic crime very hard to prove, say, corruption and that we find it very difficult to come to judicial judgments, and therefore tomorrow and to enforce criminal sanctions in this case. Why? Because justice is what it is in that sense, because we have a weak practice. A special angle of this kind of story is how to re-resect all those who deal with economic crime, state crime, and how to put these people in a position never to think of doing such a thing again tomorrow. This court of the public speaks here in the National Assembly, so let me say, and the media that write about it is also important, to say, from only one point of view, representatives of the former regime, certain processes that have been sent, some have been judicial, obviously that in the last period of time we see that they are slowly returning to the public and that they have committed certain crimes in this case do not disturb them from giving even certain statements in the media that are prone to criticise the authorities in the Republic of Serbia, and forgetting their roles and the damage they have done to the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, I believe that there is special attention here in parliament, but also the execution of criminal sanctions should be seen what with these people tomorrow and in what way they can do anything at all. A key message in all that is due to leave the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, that business crime, state crime is not worth it, and that tomorrow if you end up in jail, you'll do some resociation, you'll probably work tomorrow, you'll do some craft work, but you'll never get a chance to do that job you've been doing again. Therefore, it is not worth it, no one should do so and the message that this government in Serbia directs the political will it has created here towards all judicial institutions and police agencies is exactly going in this direction that the Republic of Serbia is no longer a safe house for people who have been involved in economic crime and that they can do so uninterruptedly and continue to do this work in some future period of time. What I also want to point out, I saw last night the President of the Republic of Serbia in an interview that is not only specific to how long it lasted, not only was it comprehensive, not only was it quality in terms of messages sent by the President of the Republic of Serbia in terms of saying, calming tensions in the region, but he, in the context of this point of the agenda, had one great message, because we must always refer to this, that all criminals who are connected to different criminal groups are no longer welcome in Serbia, that from Serbia they will not be expelled, and according to the BiH group Darka Eleza, now these Montenegrin groups, the Greek drug groups, etc., and that Serbia is not a safe place for them, and that all those who have helped them in this past period will not be able to perform in any way in public and any other way, which meant that co-operation, sociality, common business are left to the public, but to remain the public. In that sense, the support of SNS, President Alexander Vukic, showed that in this kind of story everything we could hear and see in the past time period, which was also in certain media, will no longer be repeated in the Republic of Serbia. To the very end, what I want to point out, which is also important, since we constantly have potential crimes in public that are among the most difficult, and among other things there's a lot of talk about rape, about sexual mobing and every other kind of story that's horrifying. I as a parent, as a man can only say, condemn anyone who thought of such a thing to do. Perhaps in the execution of criminal sanctions, the sanctions themselves, it should be prescribed that the most severe sanctions for the perpetrators of these crimes or those who would even try it, but I must say that I detest that this kind of fight is, I must say, the patients who are able to do such a thing, because these people, not only need to be treated and sanctioned, should be condemned in any case publicly, that I detest these stories to be used as a means of political reckoning. Also, I must express my dissatisfaction that some colleagues here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have remembered some politicians who abuse it only when they become targets. I'm not happy that that's the case, but I'm giving full support to the judicial institutions, not the politicians that someone is trying to present in this case in this sense or in the sense of words, or politicians who are trying to abuse it. We of our SNS parliamentary group, above all, support judicial institutions and victims who were potential by violent men. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5526	Thank you. The word is Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5527	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, when I talk about this Commission, I am sure that the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic – will support these proposals for our children. I am convinced that these people, professionally and in accordance with all principles, will carry out this function well with moral principles. When I talk about these sensitive issues, there's always a mixed emotion. Indeed, I am glad that the discussion and discussion throughout the day goes in selected words and goes in a certain tone. I certainly think that this also shows the citizens of Serbia how much we, above all, care about the representatives of the SNS, care about every segment that happens in our lives. I think that you have been able to see from previous exhibitions how much each topic is seriously approached and this is a clear indication that this parliament, but also the Serbian Government itself, is the next policy of President Aleksandr Vukic, every topic of access as seriously and as devoted as possible. When I talk about people who have broken the law and who suffer the consequences today, unfortunately Serbian citizens always keep in mind some people who have done so have become rich at their expense, yet still at large or have not suffered any consequences. When I talk about it, the synonym for the enormous wealth used for the period he was in power, is Dragan Gilas. To make it even more simple, so when you mention a person's wealth and abuse of state functions, each first remembers Dragan Gilas, because this man from a failed entrepreneur, window washer and gum seller, as he himself said, from the savings of 75,000 euros in the used car "SAB" came to a fortune of as much as 25m euros, and only in real estate. It is very difficult to explain to the citizens how you managed to acquire this only from the office of mayor, minister or director of some office they invented just to assign you a function, but it is even harder to explain how new information appears today day after day. You have a wealth of as much as 68m euros in more than 17 different countries in over 53 accounts. The citizens rightly wonder how and in what way a man gets rich in eight years, just for the time he was in power. I am pleased to have used my right as an MP to refer the question to the competent institutions, but I am even more pleased that I received certain answers and that the competent institutions have initiated certain procedures. But it seems to have further intimidated Dragan Gilas and increased his hysteria, so he had to extend his criminal record and include a man who is also at the head of an institution that is dealing with the prevention of money laundering. When we talk about all this, in the past, we have suggested things that have become normal in our society, and we should not. We talked about a call to the murder of President Alexander Vukic, to the murder of members of his family, brother Andrew, son of Daniel, Vukan, daughter of the militia. We talked about it all, and, unfortunately, somehow, there were always those stories left in this room alone, they stayed at the conferences, and few of the state institutions took this seriously. That's a big problem. This is not just about Alexander Vukic as president of the Serbian Progressive Party or president of Serbia, but about Alexander Vukic as a man and his family. Unfortunately, what came next was a change in their policy, though only tempered, and they turned to the potential cause of chaos on the streets and any threat that blood would spill on the streets if you, now, were careful not to meet their demands. The only requirement, when underlining the line below their pointless demands, is the arrival and return to the authorities of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boško Obradovica, Marinika Tepic and the entire team around them. Why am I saying this today? For the simple reason that Dragan Gilas today used this day to write to people in the European Parliament, so to some people who will be representatives and members of the European Parliament's dialogue team, he sent them a letter. In that letter, except, of course, the defamation of its own state, of high-ranking officials, whether the president of the assembly, whether or not the president of the state, was carrying out any untruths, Dragan Gilas also began to care for those people from whom he was washed until a month ago, and these are the people who were arrested during the protest that took place in July 2020. He also stated that people from the European Parliament somehow laughed at the people who demonstrated in July last year. Let me remind you, during July last year, we had a four-day violence festival outside this building, where from day to day, only broken hands and feet of cops who were just doing their job. I'll remind you that one cop was broken by both legs, that they were shot with stones, which reminds me more, which one officer would say, I was under the impression that I had a rock that weighed over 10 kilos. When you throw such a stone at a cop, what is it if it's not an attempted murder? When he thought it was right for him, those people washed themselves and said they had nothing to do with it. But here, you see, today he takes care of these people again, and, worse still, another reminder to all of us as a society, is that the responsibility for the success of the dialogue cannot be equally in power and opposition, the success of the dialogue depends on whether Alexander Vukic accepts these demands. So imagine now, if Dragan Gilas gets angry and says, "Here, we're not happy with all this, we're not going to go to the election again, we're pulling back and it's Alexander Vukic's fault." So, Dragan Gilas can want anything, put it on paper, and then blame Alexander Vukic. This convinces you of what I want to particularly talk about and what I want Serbian citizens to pay particular attention to. The dialogue is the last chance to avoid public dissatisfaction on the streets by reaching an agreement on respect for the law to reduce tension in society. So here Dragan Gilas, along with all his associates, is creating an atmosphere that they, of course, will again invent any reason not to be satisfied with the outcome of this dialogue and go to the streets, so that they will have bloody scenarios on the street in front of this Assembly or on the streets of Belgrade, all with the goal of him returning to power without the support of Serbian citizens. We as a party are against such a scenario, because it carries with it great dangers, but also potential victims. So make a deal, you're against this, and you're the only one who mentions this bloody scenario. Well, don't insult so much intelligence to the citizens of Serbia. When someone else is talking about the street, when someone else is testifying to some kind of violence, am I you? If such events occur, responsibility will be exclusively for the regime of Alexander Vukic and those who support such a regime. So, respected citizens of Serbia, if you vote for your country's progress, you support the responsible policy of the Serbian government and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, if you support the building of roads, schools, homes of health, which we are among the most successful in Europe and in the world by the number of vaccines we have and by the number of people vaccinated, which we are the only ones in the world who have as many as four different vaccines that we offer to citizens absolutely free of charge, if you support any progress in your country, you will be responsible because Dragan Gilas will try to take over violence in Serbia. Imagine and wonder how absurd this sounds. I ask the question to all the competent institutions and all the people in the country, will you remember this letter sent by Dragan Gilas if, possibly within a few months, in July or August, as it suits them most, again on the streets we have protests where police officers are going to fight again, trying violently to break into this building, to set this building on fire, to destroy, and everything so that Dragan Gilas, without the support of Serbian citizens, would come to power? These are the things we have to talk about and discuss in every place. Today, when you read this letter, all you see is that it's filled with some kind of threat, where you de facto dialogue that you insist on, which you want to dictate somehow, condemn to failure, and in this part you bring the representatives of the position before the final act or you set up some ultimatum, you try to blackmail. So dialogue is a two-party conversation, and this is a clear example of blackmail and a clear example of spinning that for all living things Dragan Gilas will do in the coming period to try to accuse the Serbian Progressive Party and President Aleksandr Vukic. For the sake of truth and for those who watch this transmission and who will follow the report from this session, the Serbian Progressive Party will always advocate peace, stability, dialogue and we will always fight for democratic values. The elections are coming to power in Serbia. You were last year, and this is what Dragan Gilas quoted here as saying that the 2019 dialogue was a fake. They delegated their people to this dialogue, made some demands, and of these demands, 17 totaled them, 15 were absolutely achieved, while two were partially. Serbia is the only country in the world where the opposition is rebelling because the censorship has been reduced. Then, aware that would be the end of their political career, hide behind the boycott and thus conceal the fact that they can't even cross that 3% censorship. It is taxingly stated which requirements have been met and in what way, but I don't want to talk about it today, there will be time to talk about it. I want to make it clear that for SNS dialogue he was always in the first place, wherever he was going. If they wanted to, they could have gone to elections and talked about everything in parliament, but aware of their disastrous state and the miserable support of Serbian citizens, they hid behind boycotts today, as well as the actions that will wait for us in the coming period will try to cause tension and unrest in society, so that in general chaos, which they themselves want to produce, come to a position to regain power and continue their senseless wealth. I only call on citizens to keep the peace, not to fall for these provocations and to continue to support people who are important to all of us, as far as Serbia's citizens' lives are concerned. Don't support politicians in the sense that they're politicians, support them as people who fight for the better tomorrow and you and your children and your family. When you put yourself in such a situation and such a position, I am convinced that the SNS will achieve a convincing victory in the upcoming elections, because only responsible SNS and President Alexander Vukic's policy guarantees an even better, even better and even more successful future for all our citizens and generations to come. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5528	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5529	Thank you, Chairman Orlic. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, are not all Christians in Serbia, nor are we all Christians in this room, but some stories are universal. The Gospel of John chapter 8, the story of Jesus and the adulterer. Namely, when they brought an adulterer to the temple at the time, this was also a judgmental act for the laws of that time. Conviction and conviction for such a thing was stoning. When they exposed it to Jesus, he said, "Let him who is blameless throw away the stone first." All came out of the temple, and Jesus remained and this woman was to be judged. He said, "No one condemns you, no one comes out, Lord, neither do I judge you." Why am I telling you all this? Humanity and human approach when it comes to the execution of the worst sanctions is always something that has been a feature of humanity, both throughout history and today. This human approach has often been, and today it is something that may be in front of the law, and in any case after the law says its word, it remains as one obligation. Even then, someone had to take care of that approach and be in control of the human approach to those who committed the worst crime or any other crime. Modern history, new time, new kind of control. Today we are making a decision on the selection of members of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Dear colleagues Žarić Kovacevic, Kesar, Dubravka Kralj, Muamer Bačevac, co-worker Daniela Vujičić, is in front of you, given that in your work you must take care of humanity, which was a priority 2,000 years ago and from the becoming of the man himself and who is above all values, sometimes even in front of the law itself, and after that and after what the law and justice say certainly is mandatory. You should certainly take care of justice in your business. That's what comes first, but after justice has said the last word, you should also take care of what happens in the institutions that enforce the sanctions that this justice has provided. But never forget one thing. Don't forget that you are, in fact, people in politics and that politics has always been associated with what is happening in these institutions and what these institutions themselves serve. I will also tell you in this regard a story that is not so old and something from Serbia's recent history, in 2011. I'll remind you, in 2011, Serbia choked in crime, robbery, robbery privatisation, unemployment, and those who were direct protagonists of these events were either on the streets or, even worse than that, led this country and this people. At the time, the institutions for the execution of sanctions served exclusively for the accommodation of petty con men, criminals and thieves. Such as they were, they may not have been called institutions, they would have been said to have been, but in these casemates they were also associated with our people who came from Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, with all those people who were in the 1990s, the most difficult years in the Balkans, who fought for the state, whether they did it directly or indirectly. Namely, somewhere in the autumn of 2011 in such a casamat in Šapec was staying, beware, not a soldier, not a participant of the wars, the mayor of Trebinja Slavko Vučurević. I repeat, not a soldier, but Mayor Trebinj, Slavko Vukirević. He was waiting for delivery to Croatia, and then the political elites were looking forward to carrying out such a sanction that would be carried out in Croatia and triumphantly celebrated all this. These are the same political elites that are currently leading the opposition in Serbia and are pleading to take care of Serbia's leadership as well. Slavko Vučurevic, after some time, with a plot of strange circumstances and fortunately, found himself in Trebinj and will say, in addition to all, that he was not guilty, of course, because he was not a soldier himself, but that he was deeply disappointed in the mother of Serbia, as the noun of Serbia is always said in that area, both Slavko and the people of Trebinj and Republika Srpska will say. Certainly, people in Republika Srpska and Slavko had a fat reason for that, because their only connection with the Republic of Serbia as a queen at the time was precisely these shows and the Ministry of the Interior of Serbia and no other connection of our people with the queen existed except that. And what's the connection today? What's the connection to Trebinja today? The link is the airport that is building this country in Trebinj, the connection is bridges on Drina, the link is projects in every municipality in Republika Srpska, the link is direct assistance to every man and is the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic. Make a comparison in 2011 and today, ten years later. Dear colleagues, future members of the Commission, I am sure you will be elected because it is about people who are and how envious biographys are. In the end, another message – stick to justice, guard humanity, but also keep these relationships I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5530	Thank you. The word is Milos Bandur.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5531	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I support the Commission's proposal that we have received. I hope that the colleagues elected to the Commission to control the implementation of prison sanctions will do their job in the best possible way. I'd like to refer to some details some colleagues have already spoken about, but it's not worse to remember. The first fact is that our prisons are overcrowded, or we have more convicts than we really have seats, but it's not such a terrible data, or numbers are not so dramatic. In many other countries and Western Europe and the world and in our region, these figures are much worse, i.e. we have far more prisoners than there are seats. So the number of prisoners in 100 places is far higher. In Serbia, 107 prisoners were held in 100 places in January 2020, but due to an outbreak of the coronary virus, the government managed to reduce the number to 105 prisoners to 100 seats in April, so that the number of prisoners was reduced to 626 or about 6%. It was the government's contribution, the government's contribution, the general situation and the situation in prisons and the protection of the lives and health of the people who live there. Of course, it was not only a contribution, what we can see from the means of public information, is that in facilities and institutions in which prison sanctions are carried out, i.e., they serve sentences, water and regular medical examinations, that prisoners are vaccinated, i.e. all those who wanted to receive the vaccine, that when new people are admitted to maintenance, they are medically checked, if they are suspicious, are isolated in special rooms, i.e. they are in isolation, that in case of any infection they would not pass it on to other prisoners. So all the epidemiological rules that apply in order to say, state, in life, in other objects, they are applied both in prisons and among prisoners, which is, of course, good. I say, we have 9,000 seats in prisons, and this government managed to reconstruct a couple of prisons, and in 2018, a new prison in Pancheva with 500 seats, according to all European and world standards, in 2017, we reconstructed with the help of the EU two pavilions, i.e. a female pavilion in Pogorevec. Also, in 2021, a reconstruction of two male pavilions was planned, also in Požerevac. It is also invested in prisons in Sremska Mitrovica, something in Nis, so it is one general impression that the government is doing everything in its power to fix as much as it can, at this point in time, the conditions in which the prisoners are staying, the ones that are there, the ones who are already in prisons. What I would like to draw attention to is that in Serbia, we have 152 people in support of a prison sentence of 100,000 people, in Europe, the average of 102 people per 100,000 population. That number is much lower. This does not mean that they are less criminalized than we are, it simply means that they have some other policy of saying sanctions and that they are more going to alternative sanctions. Of course, we have also introduced the opportunity, as one of the measures to avoid trial and later possibly prison punishment, however, there are other alternative measures, such as conditional condemnation, such as work in the public interest. There are ways of maintaining house arrest or electronic surveillance of the maintenance of prison sanctions, in other conditions. So these are all the measures used in Europe to minimise the number of people in prison. Maybe, I think, that's some way that maybe we should go in that sense. As for conditional convictions, I can point out that we have really few parole terms on 100 prisoners, say, 26 per 100 convicted, 26 per 100 in Serbia, 646 in Poland, 46 in Norway, 50 in Switzerland, 71 in Bulgaria. It means that they place much more frequent sentences than we do, and that's exactly what they're saying in favor of more frequent sanctions to reduce prison congestion and thus the financial burden of the state, because every prisoner does something in prison and contributes, it still costs this country. I said that health care in prisons was improved compared to some period seven, eight years ago so that today we have a double rate of mortality in prisons in Serbia and there are two types of mortality, one because of murders, suicides, and so on, accounting, and the other is due to illness. It means that prison care is also much better, i.e. a link with hospitals, and on the other hand, the control of prisoners themselves and what they do is better, so it's less possible for them to hurt each other and each other. So for this period when our party is in power, the rate of mortality in prisons has been reduced by twice. What I would point out as a problem to think about is spontaneous support, or support to people after the prison sentence is over. I read somewhere that the only law on the execution of criminal sanctions is known to convicts, or prisoners, and no other law. It is indeed necessary to create social programs that will allow people to leave prison, who endure their punishment to be accepted. Simply, when a man gets out of prison some job that he can do, there's a higher probability, or less likely to return to someone, under quotes of a trade that took him to that prison and took him, although it's all a matter of personal nature, but I say on average social support can in any case reduce his return to prison. In the EU, experience has shown that those who were convicted of public works were doing public works that the number of returnees among them was the smallest. What's important for the period behind us, is that in the last few years or even after we've had some riots in prisons, more riots and so on, which were characteristic of the period in 2000 and after that. I remember that in 2000 there was a great rebellion almost in all prisons in Serbia, probably inspired by the release of Albanian prisoners, 820 were released for no good reason, including those who killed, slaughtered, burned. I remember that then two brothers, Ljuan and Beki Mazrek, who are one larger number of Serbs, are now unable to bid which, but it was unquestionably found that a number of faces were killed and burned in the Klecka cretana. Speaking of which, I have to recall a recent statement by the president of the so-called so-called president. Kosovo, Vose Osmani, who says Serbia should repent, apologize, to make up for what she did to the victims. You know, I understand that the statement was made at the time of some campaign when she was running for president, so she animated voters, but after the election and inauguration in a speech in which she was even inaugurated in that position, I don't think that one of these rhetorics is appropriate and that she doesn't lead to dialogue and lead to good relations with Serbia, because first of all it's not real, because everything that isn't real can't work. Serbia in 2000 not only freed all Albanian terrorists, murderers, slaughterers, and among them were those who may have been political prisoners, but Kosovo in the period from 2000-2012 and later, neither the international force and the KIM mission managed to find and identify any killer, any perpetrator of crime and crimes against the Serb population. Let's think of Old Grack, the harvester, in 2000 in the spring, who were killed just because they came out to mow their own field. No one answered. The bus at the Podujev, the bomb planted, the missing people, no one answered. In 2004, over thousands of Serbs and thousands of burned houses -- no one answered. When I remember Mrs. Vjose Osmani, I always remember that picture from the Hague court, or the International Court of Justice in The Hague, where she smiled, cynicalally, at the sight of Vuk Jeremic, who is so angry with her leaving the session, where Serbia then lost its decision by court 10-4, so that every association in Mrs. Vjos Osmani to me and Vuk Jeremic, which, along with his team, led to Serbia's defeat in the International Court of Justice. I think that these statements that came from Kosovo in the past weeks and months are actually the result of not realizing that in Serbia the circumstances changed, that Serbia today is not Serbia from 1999, is not Serbia from 2000, is not Serbia from 2004, which will be silent over the pogrom being conducted over the Serbian population, is not Serbia from 2008 which will calmly observe the declaration of independence, nor is it the dumbest Serbia from 2010 to ask the most stupid question to the General Assembly, which it has passed to the International Court of Justice and we have received the answer that we have received. Even if the question was the smartest, it was necessary to examine the relationship between the forces in the International Court of Justice and to see who these judges are, from which countries, what their attitude and attitude towards Serbia are, and if we are not assessed to be in favour of any statement, that we are not doing so. But it was done that it was done and I personally think it was done with the intention of doing us invaluable damage, so on that point we are where we are. As for this subject, once again, support to the commission. I think there is a very serious task ahead of them, because prisons in Serbia are not kindergartens and are not places where only beautiful things happen. In prison, however, there are other than those who are found guilty and convicted of car accidents and some things that may be the result of circumstances, there are also people who are involved in serious crime or programmed to deal with serious crime. Among prison guards, the largest number is fair and as it should be, however, there are those who co-operate. I think it's a serious task for the commission to also look at who's sending it to the house, in home terms, in electronic monitoring, and who has to go to jail, or to establish one balance, and to see if these things are done in a fair way, whether certain repairs are possible, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5532	Thank you. The word is Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5533	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear Mr Orlic, distinguished fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, is a very important work by the Commission to control criminal sanctions, because, as we know, Serbia is a country of justice, a country of respect for law and Serbia has been intensive since 2012. But when we have committed criminal sanctions and controlled criminal sanctions in Serbia, I just have to remind myself that since 2012, during political change, we have had one disastrous situation regarding all units, i.e. all detention and prison organizations within the Department of Criminal Sanctions, where we had not only one state of chaos, but we also had frequent insurrections of prisoners and detainees, we also had various financial malfeasances, we had a lack of respect for human rights, and we had, as my colleague Mrs. Jevtović Vukojičić said, a really bad picture from the time of the police action "Sabbe", when several thousand citizens were detained and spent months and more days in prison and in custody, and beyond any rules and, of course, with a violation of all possible human rights. Fortunately, that time from 2003 and that time until 2012 has passed. For the past eight and a half years, we have arranged a criminal sanctions administration, we have investments in prisons, not only do we have respect for human rights within the Organizational Units of the Department of Criminal Sanctions, but we even have a situation to develop and produce in certain areas, such as, say, the case of prisons in Sremska Mitrovica, Sombor, Nis, Pogorec, where we have certain results from areas and agriculture, carpentry, wood industry, and even as my colleagues have said, now, last year especially, during the Corona period, about a million masks are sewn as regards the enforcement of criminal sanctions and which has been distributed to Serbian citizens. In addition to all these investments in prisons and not talking about the construction of Skela 2 prisons now, then the announced investment in prison units, in Kragujevac, Panchev, across Serbia, and here I am talking about about 30 institutions, so the administration for the execution of criminal sanctions and the Ministry of Justice in this respect is doing their job well and therefore it is very important that the Commission's work to control criminal sanctions and I absolutely support the proposal that five of my dear fellow Members of Parliament be in that commission. So here we have three representatives of the Committee on Justice and Local Self-Government, we have our colleague from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and we have a colleague who runs the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and I know that five of my colleagues and Mrs Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, and Mrs Daniela Vujičić and Mrs Dubravka Kralj, and Mr Bacevac, and Dejan Kesar, will do their job well and that this commission will be what it is and what it is after all, and every committee and every delegation voted here in the Serbian Assembly and who has received good support for its work and full support. Speaking of work, management, and respect for institutions, and when we are in respect of justice and law in Serbia, I have to share with the citizens of Serbia the answer I received this morning, from the Ministry of Money Laundering Directorate of the Ministry of Finance, in a response signed by the Minister of Finance Mr Siniša Mali, and as regards the questions I asked on 16 March on behalf of the parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vucic, for our children, and the question was addressed to the Ministry of Interior, and his DS, where he was also vice president, and then the president of the DS, ruled both the rules of chaos in Serbia and allowed crime and corruption by the end of 2012. In response, and I will read only part of the answer in order not to burden the people present here, since the rest is related to the notifications, as regards how it works itself, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the most important part of the response has stated that the Ministry of Finance's Money Laundering Authority has undertaken, in accordance with its legal powers, the activities of data collection, information and documentation in the country and abroad in order to verify important financial and intelligence data, which point to suspicion of money laundering, tax evasion and concealment of real ownership by legal and physical persons associated with the business company "Askanius LTD" and Dragan Gilas, and depending on the results of those activities will determine further treatment in a specific case. Dear Serbian citizens, we have received a clear answer from the Finance Ministry to prevent money laundering. We got a clear answer the other day about the same question from the Home Office. These memos, these notifications, have made it clear and proven that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Interior are also doing their job professionally. I am convinced and convinced that no one, not in the prosecution, nor in the judiciary, nor in other state institutions participating in this investigation against Dragan Gilas in relation to his non-millionaires, but in the case of fraud of ten million, the money he took from Serbian citizens, I hope that it will eventually come to 619m euros as much as it has taken from Serbian citizens Dragan Gilas together with its associates, because Serbia, as I said at the beginning of its exhibition, is a country of justice, a country of respect, a country of law, and as our president of Serbia and SNS Aleksandar Vukic said, in last night's excellent show of Sarajevo television recorded in Belgrade, Aleksandar Vucic made it clear that the absolute interest of Serbia and stability, peace and stability in Serbia and the Balkans and the best possible relations with our dear neighbours. What are the relations, it was clearly presented last night by President Vukic, and all those well-intentioned people living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and as far as other Balkan states are concerned, especially as regards the state of the former Yugoslavia, where we have one great thanks to President Vukic for everything he has done in the fight against the crown of the virus and to help our neighbours. I had a conversation the other day with a person living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, more specifically in Sarajevo, in the territory of the Federation of BiH, with whom I constantly had a problem talking about the politics of Alexander Vukic and the constant criticism of that person, such criticism that I simply couldn't convince that person otherwise. However, this person called me on the phone the other day to see me, came to Belgrade, received a vaccine, and said everything I said about President Vukic is falling into the water so far, it's good for him, he saved my life and my family. He's the only true leader. Welcome to our Sarajevo every time. I'm so glad I heard that from a friend of mine who I had the other day and got along with completely and as far as politics is concerned, as far as Alexander Vukic's politics are concerned. How good this whole vaccination story is is also confirmed by yesterday's data that Serbian citizens received a total of 3,060,757 doses of vaccines, a dose of vaccines provided by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the policies of Aleksandr Vukic. Therefore, I must conclude in the end that all of this is well-intentioned by my dear fellow MPs, and as for the work of this Commission to control criminal sanctions, and as for Serbia's success in the areas of economy, health, vaccination and all other areas, we have a terrible, abnormal and per se, a crazy criticism and by Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic and their associates. They criticise everything good that Serbia is doing. Why are they criticizing? First, because they want to return to power in any way possible, because most of the people, most of the citizens of Serbia, of all nations and religions, are upset by all the good results. These results that we have in Serbia, which are done thanks to Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are not only results that cost Serbian citizens, but these are the results which are now priced and respected by other peoples living across the Balkans, who live across Europe and who live around the world. Why? Because now the whole world knows clearly, and now it's proven that when Serbia is the hardest, for who knows which time in its history has risen, and in this situation when it comes to the fight against the crown of the virus, it reacts best in Europe, among the best countries in the world with clear results. Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic once again makes it clear that he is the leader and that the absolute interest of our Serbia is peace and stability in both our territory and the Balkans. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5534	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. According to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, for the purpose of bringing in acts from the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5535	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by saying, on this important discussion, what is this Serbian Progressive Party, the 2008 Party, from when we were founded to the day of today and what are the fundamental values that our party has been propagating. First, it is a serious, stable, legal and orderly state and justice for all citizens in our country. These are the two main postulates that led me to become part of the Serbian Progressive Party in 2008. What have we done with that? We were able to make these two main pillars, to strengthen the state, to raise it from the bottom, to stabilize it, to say today that our prison capacities, the situation in our prisons in Serbia, in criminal and correctional institutions, are important better than in 2012, when we came to power. To begin with, I want to condemn all threats with an attempt to attack anyone in Serbia, and political opponents, and those who represent them, beliefs representing today the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic. That's the difference between us and that's the difference between those of my esteemed colleagues, especially my colleague Bakarec, said that some are more equal to one of the others. It is a picture and an opportunity of the former regime that we had until 2012, how he ruled Serbia and what would happen again in Serbia if Dragan Gilas and his partners, his hooligans, criminals, re-emerged in Serbia. Who but us from the SNS condemned threats against anyone in Serbia? Nobody. I want to inform the public in Serbia that last night a hooligan or a group of hooligans came to the front door of our MP Vladimir Djukanovic, writing certain, disgusting words at the front door of his building. Who are the people who come to the door of SNS officials, members of the SNS, Serbian citizens, writing out some kind of parole, some kind of offensive threat, demeaning our entrances? This sends a personal threat to Djukanovic and colleagues, but why not to all SNS MPs, members of the SNS, to know where and who lives, to know that they can come and think that they can unpunishedly come to the door of each of us, to write what they want, to direct the message, that strong message of hate, the threats, to try to put fear in each and every one of us, not to dare call them what we should, not to say that they are thieves, that we are no longer talking about hundreds of millions of euros, that we are not talking about accounts around the world, that we are not talking about dozens of millions that are brought out of Serbia, that we simply have fear and silence on this side. Fear and silence will never be experienced in the ranks of SNS and its MPs, officials, and you will not yet scare the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. That's what bothers us even more strongly, even more courageously, that with even more conviction to do the right thing for this country, we continue to do everything we've done so far. What does it mean to come to someone's door at night? These are brave, very brave people, who at night with masks, or whatever, come to your door, ring you, threaten, record, leave messages, break cars. We've heard they're breaking the heads of community presidents and nobody. What kind of people are these? What are these people who, on social networks, print the worst threats and curses for Serbian President Alexander Vukic, his family, children, SNS MPs, all people who disagree with the ideology of the thieving that is being personified by Dragan Gilas? Is it hard if you... As he said - if you ask me, I am for peace, but that peace can easily go to the other side and go to the streets and do not know what to the citizens of Serbia who are not for us. Is that a threat to all of us, that we should fear when we leave our homes for our own safety? Is that a threat to any of us who has children what will happen to the child when he leaves the school yard after school? Is that again a threat to Serbian President Alexander Vukic to drop the ball, put down the gas and stop Serbia? Is someone going to react to all that? Is someone going to say, aman people, you can't come to anyone's door to threaten children? Someone said, "Well, it's just a written threat to a building's facade and nothing else." What if something had happened? What about when something happens to someone's kid? Then what's someone gonna say? Isn't that kid the same as this other kid, that those kids don't matter? The fathers of those children, they don't shed false tears like that circus boy and the thief Dragan Gilas. We don't go to the pharmacy to get those tears, we don't go to acting schools to pretend we're sick or someone wrote us something. I ask the authorities to take footage from all these buildings where such messages are left, that such persons be sanctioned. They'll have much better conditions to serve their punishments than they did nine years ago. They will be able to see how much better and more humane the prison detention system is today than it was in their time and there they will be able to see that in their stories they are wrong and that Serbia has made much progress compared to that of their tycoon, criminal mafia time ruled by Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic and those who would again, because the money ran out, ran out of accounts that are unknown. They would move back into the chairs and rule Serbia. Is violence allowed? Can you come to someone in Serbia in the 21st century and threaten freely? The system must show in Serbia that this must not happen, that whoever threatens anyone, on any side, must be punished and that one must answer in accordance with the laws. This country has laws, it has a system, it has a system, it's a system, it's a legal state. In the rule of law, those who commit crimes must answer for them. Those who put their hand in the pocket of a Serbian citizen, draw money out of his pocket, must answer for it. There can't be dozens or hundreds of accounts abroad just like that and say, "So what?" Whatever you ask Dragan Gilas is the answer, so what and what now? There, those bills, dozens of bills you found, what now? Well, nothing. Someone said it nicely -- it doesn't take any special law, no special sense to conclude that with the mayor's salary you can't get up to a few dozen million euros. That's impossible. If you had Aladdin's magic lamp, you can't do it. The fairy tales don't exist, the basses don't exist. It's all nice, it's nice to read to kids good night, but it doesn't exist in real and real life. In real life, you know what you can do with your salary, how much of it. It's easy to calculate. Take the digitron, if you can't get out of your head, so calculate as much as you can with a salary of 1,000 or 1,500 euros for 10 years of power to acquire and then that logic is clear -- you can't have 57 bills, you can't do it in 17 countries, you can't measure it into 25 million, 650 million, 100 million, as much as you already do. Once you have to put an end to it. Nothing in particular is necessary here. You don't need any agency, you don't need any laws to question it if you couldn't get it with that money. Serbian citizens need that kind of justice, that what they know is that when they have to take a loan to buy an apartment and make an effort to work hard, to torture themselves for 10, 20 years to pay off that loan for an apartment, for one apartment. Someone can't have 40 apartments just because he's the brother of former Belgrade mayor and the largest tycoon and thief in Serbia, Dragan Gilas. He can't. What are you doing? What the hell do you do? What kind of expert are you? For what? There's another nice opportunity to make sure they look like they're closing up in Serbia today. Politics can't be run on the street. That's what they want, to make politics out of parliament... That's why they boycotted him, because in parliament they cannot face positions with SNS deputies, because the arguments for the debate do not have. Then their main argument becomes a stick, first they break down the doors of the National Assembly, then they set fire to the National Assembly again as in 2000, then stones of 10 and more kilos, to throw cops with it. They put cops in the middle, so they play between two fires. They shoot on one side, and the other on the other side, and Dragan Gilas sits in his office and dies of laughter and says, "That, masters, bravo, we've rekindled Belgrade, we've rekindled the city, and then, for that, for breaking up our own city, you attack the SNS and the president of the Republic, those people who built hundreds of miles of highways, over 200 factories, 320 thousand new jobs that you've shut down." You attack these people for your own ignorance and your own madness. I am convinced that these investigations that are being conducted against Dragan Gilas will result as citizens and they wish, the rule of law will do its job, justice will be served, and Dragan Gilas will see to it how much better the situation is in criminal and correctional institutions today than it was in 2012, and Serbia, led by the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, will continue to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5536	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. You have eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5537	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when we talk about the rights of convicted persons, or those who maintain a prison sentence, it's always a very sensitive question. First of all, prisons do not go to people who have trampled grass where it should not have been done, but prisons go to people who have committed serious crimes by the judgments of our courts and certainly that the prison sentence itself reduces the amount of human rights that a convicted person has, above all, in terms of restrictions on the right to move, but certainly that the condemning prison sentence itself must not violate the fundamental human rights that every citizen of Serbia has, or even those who are on prison terms. It is always very difficult to find the extent to which the purpose of punishment is, above all, what some colleagues have said, resociation, or retraining of a person who committed a crime, without endangering his fundamental human rights. Let's just say, it shouldn't be forced or forced to work, and I guess in that desire to fix things a little bit, often our system and society go to a whole other place. It's not just a prison sentence that's meant to be resociated. Penalty is punishment, because someone violated prison, revenge against the state for breaking the rules, and thus violated the rules of the state, but the rules of the citizens living in that country. The third purpose of punishment is, certainly, preventive, what kind of message the state sends to some potential criminal offence, because it's not those who think about what happens to them if the state authority finds out they've committed a crime, but those who don't think about it at all. And one of the goals of punishment is to get as many people as possible to the message that there are laws that have to be respected, and who doesn't respect them, that they will be sentenced to time imprisonment. However, we also have criminal acts that appear to be inadmissible, legal penalties are foreseen, crimes without the elements of violence, crimes with minor material damage, etc. And there went to an entirely different institute, the prison sentence remains, there may be a parole, it may be a prison sentence where the sentence would be maintained under off-chasing conditions and prison sentences, of course, in office terms. And that is where we begin to lose the purpose of why we, as MPs, have brought certain benefits to those who break the law. First of all, it was our intention for faces, and for crimes committed out of indiscretion, without intent, or where no significant material damage was done. Thanks to the former regime's reform of justice, we have come to a situation where people who have committed the most serious crimes are convicted of non-conducting sanctions. To make things worse, even in this out-of-conduct sanctions, where it was again intended to improve the conditions of life in prison for those who maintain punishment, given that persons who support the sentence outside the institution are doing so under domestic conditions, so more countries will have money and resources to create better conditions for these others. Data is another option, which is that a person sentenced to a six-month prison sentence doesn't lose his job, because the law says that he's out-of-conducted maintenance of criminal prison sanctions, that he can go to work. Now, that was interpreted as having to go to work and then the purpose of punishing people, where it was the very purpose of being perpetrators of easier crimes, was to get our judicial authorities to the ground. Here's an example. All right, trouble beats a man, gets a prison sentence that he's gonna hold in extra-zadian terms, still goes to work. What's his job? Beating someone again? Now, that's law enforcement, and that's that game between human rights and upholding jail time. Human rights means that everyone has the right to a lawyer and a fair trial. I couldn't agree more. The suspect is entitled to confidential talks with his legal representative. And I agree with that. These conversations must not be tapped, cannot be recorded, cannot be used in court proceedings, etc. The lawyer has the right to remain silent even if his suspect, whom he represents, confesses to the execution of the crime. And that's human rights. His lawyer has the right to know the truth about the whole case, he doesn't have to present it to the court. But is it also the right of a lawyer to bring a suspect or a defendant's cell phone into the prison penitentiary, because the prison is also a prison? There isn't. Is there a right for a lawyer to hand over a suspect's orders to non-injurious members of the group, to pass them orders, to which witnesses should be influenced, and to intimidate them? He's got no right. Because the purpose of detention is to keep the witnesses out of harm's way. And if that's what his lawyer does with his warrant? In second place, so he doesn't do the crime again. If a threat is transmitted, there is a possibility that that threat may be realized. What about when the detention rate is set, in connection with this case? I'm just saying that there's a very thin thread between law enforcement and certain rights that have suspects or convicted persons. And where is this measure to be found, above all, by our prosecution, by the judicial authorities, by the Criminal Sanctions Authority, and by this commission that we choose today? Of course, I have to ask a question - the lawyers, the bar, the constitutional category, do they also think that they do something about their colleagues who abuse procedural and human rights, break the law, participate in the execution of a criminal offence, do they have to be just convicted of complicity, or can the Bar of Lawyers react preventively and simply take away their work permit because they are not worthy of performing such a profession? This is just one part of everything that this Commission we now choose to start with is going to have to start one process of solving all these problems that we have in self-sustaining prisons, violating human rights, I know they're not being violated, I've just cited an example of how, under the pretext of human rights, you can abuse, disprove the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the purpose of punishment. Unfortunately, this is happening today in real time, it's happened before, today much less, and our goal is that these things don't happen anymore. So the court can't conclude a plea agreement if a serious crime has been committed in order to get him out-of-conduct criminal sanctions. The plea agreement is the institute when it is uncertain whether the prosecutor will prove guilty, that the suspect or the defendant is being defended. That's when you go to the plea agreement. If the crime is clean and evidenceable, then I have to ask the question of what's that prosecutor doing, what's that judge doing? Then we get to this part called out-of-conduct criminal sanctions. Then we get to this part so the lawyer can pass the warrants on to the defendant what they should do with the witnesses, whether to intimidate them, whether to bribe them, whether to kill them. I think the Commission will have a serious job ahead of it. I'm sure we'll have our first results in the next few months.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5538	Thank you. There are no more logs on the lists. The authorised representatives of Article 96 who want the word are gone. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. I'm setting a regular break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5539	Ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 90(1). I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend the sittings of Professor Zoran Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Mining and Energy with Associates, I welcome it. We return to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Veroljub Matić, Dr Boban Birmancevic, Djordje Milicevic, Snezana Paunović, Uglješa Marković and Dijana Radovic, as well as the Committee on Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I'm opening my rules of procedure to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) Carrier Veroljub Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5540	Thank you, Chairman. Dear gentlemen, I have submitted several amendments to three laws with my colleague Birmancevic, and these amendments have been accepted by the government on a proposal from the Ministry, which we believe the amendments are of quality. I think the bill's proposals are of quality, but they've been corrected by these amendments since the government's already accepted them and they're already part of the law. The power to be dealt with by these laws, of course, and the amendments, which will be an integral part of the law, is certainly something that cannot be a quality life without these areas being solved by these laws. It's primarily energy, mining, geology. What attracts special attention under these laws is, for example, in the Mining and Geological Research Act. It's an approval issued for research and where the deadline has been 150 days, now it's 15 days. Please, it's ten times. It's a huge shift, I hope that's how the realization is going to be. In the end, we had practices through those construction laws to see that practice also showed what was proposed or what you suggested, that it showed that it was possible. This, in my opinion, is one of the biggest shifts because we simply can't stick to the old habits "someone, we'll solve", "there's time" etc. It's just that everywhere in the world, even with us, life is going fast, we have to catch up. Of course we regulate it by law. Furthermore, this fee for using binary raw materials is divided, 60% goes to the Republic budget, and 40% goes to local self-government where these mineral raw materials are used. I'm going to say briefly about the local part of the 40% that belongs to the local budget, simply those funds are being fixed, that come into local self-government, mostly they should be used and I think they're being used to improve the lives of these local communities where they're using certain ore resources. Furthermore, building infrastructure, of course it all gives, the schedule of those funds, of course for realisation, the consent is given by the Ministry, and I think they should be dedicated, simply that where it's demoted, that part simply brings back a quality life. Furthermore, there is this obligation, obligations and those companies that exploit certain mineral raw materials or mineral wealth to degrade land, simply after the land has been decommissioned in a certain period, should lead to an earlier or earlier situation, that it should be invested, that it is simply a legal obligation. But if it is not done, the law predicts that a bankruptcy can even be introduced for companies that do not. I think it's something serious and nobody's gonna play with something like that if they're seriously doing their part of the job. Something I want to point out is that it's current these days, it's known as our jadarite or lithium. Jadarit was named after the Jadar River, which already brings some results, as certain investors who, based on these findings, predict that they will need these raw materials for their development. I primarily think it's part of the automotive industry or part of the batteries, because lithium is used mostly for batteries, and hopefully because of the ecological moment, there will be more and more cars on the battery drive. Next thing you know, there's a little talk here, but I think it deserves attention -- gasification. According to Serbia's spatial plan, regional plans, my best known area of Western Serbia is and simply where gas is available, investors are easier to come to, and the environments are developing faster. It has been announced that the gas will reach Valjevo relatively quickly, i.e. gasification will be carried out. In order for him to come to Valjevo, he goes through the municipalities of Kolubar County and I think that from that part of the Kolubar district he should also turn towards my Koceljev, from there he goes to the Vladimirs and connects with the shaba gas. In Koceljeva, there is a hub where it separates and goes across Kamenica and Donji Crneljevo, where there is a high furnace, I think by coming gas that this high furnace will be shut down, from there it goes towards Osecina, from Osecina towards Krupnje, Love, etc. So that Western Serbia gasification will simply make the end a much better place to live and also make it more environmentally clean. One more thing I want to mention, I think it's important for that neighborhood, that local self-government, is that in Koceljeva himself this year we have to do the 110/20 kilovolts. It's something for local self-government tops in terms of both supply and quality of electricity, so users, I mean, of course, citizens, and also industry and those who use a lot of electricity will simply get security and stability in the supply of electricity. Further, reconstruction is also envisaged, i.e. spare power, that this goes from the direction of Banjan towards Koceljeva at 35 kilovolt power line. What I'm trying to say is that I won't be long, it's green investment, green energy, respect for environmental standards. I think that's the future. It's something that protects us all, which makes us serious in the regional environment and beyond. This is where the Deputy Prime Minister said that we will have 40% of renewable energy in 2040 and that in 2050 we will have 50% of renewable energy. I think that's great. In order for this to happen, it must be seriously approached and one of the opening steps is certain to adopt these regulations that we are discussing today. I want to say something about biogas. I think he deserves attention because he has one width, a biogas in terms of applying to the production of electricity and protecting the human environment, because simply by using them, we don't have absolute environmental pollution, and besides electricity, he necessarily produces and heat that's not negligible, and if it's used correctly, I think that local environments have serious benefits. Next, he cleans one field of extra vegetable production, where people usually burn something like that. We are witnessing that simple combustion has a number of negative effects, from land quality and microlife destruction, to air pollution, to traffic disturbances, etc. and can be used in a good way. So, biogas power plants, I think, are something that's useful, and that power plant could work, it simply requires in the process of its production and a certain number of employment. So when we look at it together, it seems to me that we have one full quality here with the recognition of all other renewable energy sources. I hope so, and I think we're on our way to applying these laws in Koceleva, we need to get the biogas power plant going. I still hope that, by practically applying these laws and their realisation, there will be relatively quick application of these laws, or building a biogas power plant. In order for these laws, of course with amendments, to be good, we must ensure the proper application of these laws. It is your responsibility, the first responsibility for them to be implemented, and I hope we have good realization, good laws, good implementation, and I wish you good luck with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5541	National MP Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5542	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Chairman, respected Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, energy efficiency is one of the most important areas for humanity in the 21st century. We are witnessing the exhaustion of nature and its resources to the limits, and the warming of the planet is rapidly approaching a critical increase of 2% of the average temperature when we are likely to lose the environment we have today and which we consider to be God-given. Several decades of research and energy efficiency results suggest that not everything has to be so pessimistic and therefore I am very pleased to support the proposal for this law as a whole. What we should pay attention to after the adoption of this law is a number of sublegal acts, rules and guidelines that should allow Serbia to be classified in the order of countries with high energy efficiency. This is the first special law with consumers being able and able to be producers of energy, which puts us in line for Europe's most modern countries. This law regulates the conditions and efficient use of energy and energy energy, energy efficiency policy, energy management system, energy efficiency policy measures, energy efficiency in buildings, energy efficiency and final customers, funding as well as incentives measures of importance for natural and legal persons in terms of energy use, where ecosystem protection is a priority, creating profitable projects for Serbian citizens who will also have financial benefits from the proposed law, achieving energy savings, energy security, reducing the impact of the energy sector on the environment and climate change on sustainable natural resources, increasing competitiveness of the economy, improving conditions for economic development, reducing energy poverty. With this law, the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for a single market, the legal position of economic operators, provides and regulates the uniform development of certain parts of Serbia, including primarily the development of underdeveloped areas which are of vital interest to the Republic of Serbia for which President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS are fighting. The important thing to point out and point out, as it is about energy is the Balkan flow that makes the circulation of Europe, where Serbia represents not only the consumer, but also the distributor gasses it to Western Europe. The president stressed that Serbia has provided energy stability and security by pipeline Balkan Stream, which is very important for attracting new investors as it has been proven in action, through hundreds of new companies investing in Serbia. Even so, because the people of this country are in this country and what is precious to the people of this country, today, it also bothers the former regime. They have, however, launched negotiations on the opening of lithium factories, negotiations that have never, of course, been conducted until today, when President Aleksandar Vukic, along with a Western company that is a partner of Serbia, is creating new projects for the future, when not one is planned, but two factories with respect for all environmental measures as a priority for environmental protection. With this move that is strategically important for our country, we will move forward with the most developed countries of Europe and the world. Constant investment to Serbia by our many partners in the world, for them alone, is a thorn in the eye, because they were unable to do anything, nor to fit in as they normally do and know it, only they can and can profit from the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, unable to implement anything at all. That's why Gilas and Marinika are screaming. Unlike them, the basic postulate of Alexander Vukic is today a sovereign policy, good relations with everyone, with Russia that has enabled the Balkan Stream, with China with which we have found a solution for Bor and Smederevo, arrangements by Alexander Vukic with the Chinese president to provide vaccines for all our citizens. Instead of providing support when they see that something good is done for our country, big projects are being done that will contribute to a better standard of our population and preserve lives, out of envy and jealousy, they attack everything that seems to Serbia and things that are vital to the citizens of Serbia every week. Serbia remembers the amount and does not remember the hypocrisy they show daily, such as, for example, Gilasovo - I will not receive a vaccine that is not from the west and constantly spit and belittle China, but also Serbia, independence of Marinika Tepic, who seeks a referendum and her inappropriate statement that someone's life will be threatened by receiving a Chinese vaccine, and they were of course the first to line up for these same vaccines. Speaking of hypocrites, is there any worse and scarier hypocrisy than what they did last weekend in Belgrade? You've brought people to an open mass gathering, allegedly due to ecology, and 99% of the time, you've just spit on the government, and you've violated all the epidemiological protection measures at the time of the pandemic. Because of such and similar procedures, our hospitals are full, our people are dying. Those of you who lie when you say that the alleged threat to health when the SNS organizes a single stand, common where people have masks and keep their distance, you have, after all these attacks on our party and the president of the Republic of Serbia, built a mass gathering where no one wears a mask, keeps a distance, and that's fine with you, and you're proud of it. All parties of the former regime participated in the meeting, and were supported by self-proclaimed anti-covidal doctors, could it be more hypocritical and crazy? Just because it's against the government and the Wolf, that's why it's all right for you. Well, they're no better than Gilas, who stood first in line to receive the Russian Sputnik V vaccine, which thanks to Alexander Vukic and the responsible SNS policy began production last week and our Torlak, who devastated. Well, such hypocrites got carried away and thought they could beat Vukic thanks to whom Serbia has the Balkan Stream, financial assistance to citizens at the time of the pandemic, a vaccine when no one else has millions of investments, so there's no way for five lives. At least not in Serbia. I don't know about Mauritius, maybe they can try it there and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5543	Thank you. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmanevic. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5544	The Honorable Chairman, respected Deputy Prime Minister with a team from the ministry, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, four extremely important laws and first in line, but not as most important but as one of the four most important on today, the Law on Energy and Amendments, which primarily refers to the production of hydrogen, including in line with the development of technology and what this law and this ministry pursues, and this is the latest technology in the best possible way and in line with interests and citizens of Serbia, but of course also in accordance with the law. That is why it was necessary to define hydrogen production as something to predict this law and something of course in the future and to have on our energy market. I wanted to thank you for accepting this amendment and to draw attention to the fact that Serbia is really moving forward with this law and this set of laws. What is evident, which is that this team led by Dr Zorana Mihajlovic really does give the best possible results, and if we're going to talk about the Energy Act, I'm going to remind from 2014 a law that should have changed several years earlier and if we wanted to be in step with Europe, we wanted to, but I don't think there was enough will, but not enough capacity in previous years to change and bring this law into line with EU needs, but above all with Serbia's needs. What I know and what I want to share with the citizens, remind them why I expect these laws to produce the right results, precisely because of who leads this ministry and who among other things will be responsible for what is happening in the ministry and for the results that are achieved, with the application of these laws. If we've moved one step at a time in the Department of Building, or step by step, here by these laws, if they're accepted, of course, when the voting day is, we'll move three, four steps at that speed. (President: Excuse me, are you wasting group time? Since you've taken advantage of the time of the promoter. Thank you. I can't agree with some colleagues. Of course, their opinion is of the best interest, but that finding that we are going slowly, we cannot go slowly and simply Europe, only the market itself, is looking for a faster life, looking for a more efficient and what I would insist on in this law and on applying this set of laws is that we are going at the speed that is possible and at the best possible speed, and precisely the speed of reform, the speed of application of these laws will depend on sublegal acts and on the system that will be introduced through the ministry. Among other things, we almost every session, each session starts with the most important laws and indeed every law is at that moment the most important law, and all of what we have done as a state, all of what Alexander Vukic has done, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly's majority, i.e. the Assembly, is primarily a system drawn up from a series of cubes, from a series of laws that support each other and which essentially create the methodology that gives the best possible results. If anyone thinks this is a fruit of chance and of someone's good will, it's not. This is a product of great work, system work and work of the entire ministry. When Dr. Zorana Mihajlovic said a few years ago that we would be among the first to issue permits, it seemed like an impossible mission at the time. Almost, and there were some laughing and laughing at that statement, and in a very short time, with 180 and some places we came into a situation to be the state of which others copy. When someone said, "Here, we will lift the seal, we have an electronic signature, so who will lift the seal in Serbia?" At the time, the yellow company, neither the contracts certified with 20 stamps and 20 witnesses were worth anything, because there was no state that was safe and guaranteed for everything that was signed and done in this Serbia. This country, the state of Aleksandar Vukic and the state that is currently going really big is a state that will guarantee that these laws, the Energy Act and the restored sources of mining, that I do not list them, are the laws that will enable these citizens, to provide safe Serbia, Serbia with a healthy environment, a green Serbia that will give answers to questions. It is all these amendments that are only submitted to improve the law, but the law as a law is guaranteed that we have a bright future and that we have a green future for our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5545	I thank the People's MP, Dr. Birmancevic. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5546	Good afternoon, everyone. I am pleased to discuss today the amendments that were adopted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as on the Committee. I thank the President of the Committee for organising the Committee and for being constructively discussed. I would just like to simply add a few things, as MP Birmancevic, as well as Veroljub Arsic spoke not only about the importance of the law, but also about these amendments that will really help make the law even better. When we say hydrogen production, I'd like to inform you that today in the government, we have begun to develop a national energy and climate plan. Maybe it was supposed to be done before, but it's not like we're not talking about why it's not. In any case, national plans began today. It must be completed, the first draft of the plan must be completed long before December, but at the same time we start building a strategy for energy development by 2030 and 2050. So all these laws that I hope and believe you will vote in front of you are, in fact, the future of Serbia and are the future of both our children and all those other generations, new generations. Some are already in parliament, and some will come. So this is Serbia's future in terms of green Serbia, new investments, another stronger economic development, but it's also not just a story and it's not a fairy tale. Since Serbia has shown in the previous period and previous years that it can and has shown that it is strong and strong and has shown that it can cope with the economy and finance and has shown that it can be managed to be one of the best when we talk about fighting Kovid, one of the countries at the top of a country called vaccination, a country that has offered its citizens four vaccines, so the crisis knows heroes. It is this crisis that has also shown that we can do all of this in front of us, and in energy and mining is far ahead of us, in the protection of the environment is much ahead of us. It's big decisions, it's not small decisions, and those decisions, of course, will be gradually realised, but they have to be made, and when such decisions are made, then we're really all together. So, strategies, action plans, our unity in having a developed country, but a healthy and clean environment is actually a vision of Serbia's future in the coming years. Also, when you mentioned new investments, the truth is that six, seven, eight years ago, a lot of things have been said and planned in the energy field haven't been realised, but we just can't wait anymore and Serbia doesn't have a second to lose at all. Therefore, everything that is ahead of us, from the moment the laws are passed, is going to the rapid production of sublegal acts. They're already working. In the next few months, it'll all be over. In the next few months we'll have laws that can be applied. I'll tell you that today there's a Mining Act that still doesn't have any sublaws, even though it was brought in a few years ago, I don't know how many years ago. That won't be the case here. A sublegal act will be adopted here, the laws will be implemented, and we will make decisions together in public debates on where Serbia is going in the energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5547	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5548	The esteemed chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates, this is a very important law and parliamentary group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasant Party will vote. As far as the amendments are concerned, we'll also support them. Some are of a technical nature, and some are aimed at correcting certain irregularities. They're all necessary, all of them should be supported. I'd like to take advantage of the minister's presence and draw attention to some of the things that have been going on, as far as the portfolio you run is concerned. We've had a lot of problems this winter when it comes to a low-voltage network in the Sanjay municipalities. A large number of villages, settlements ran out of electricity. As much as we talk about returning young people to the country, about demographic policy, we cannot solve this problem until we have a proper supply of electricity. What's my question is, what's the plan when it comes to replacing high-voltage and low-voltage networks, especially when it comes to Sanjak municipalities? It's, like other parts of our country, it's one agricultural area. You can imagine when a man who deals with malaria, when he has a freezer and there's a few dozen tons of raspberries in that freezer, waiting for spring to make a better price, if he runs out of electricity, if there's no power to trigger the work of that coolant, all that he's been doing for a year will be ruined and his business will be at risk, thus the survival of his family and his company. Also, what is a visible problem in the Sanjay municipalities is the lack of trafo cells, especially here when it comes to the Prepolje municipality and the Tutin municipality. So we can't talk about making big foreign investments or any investment if they have a problem with power supply. Of course everyone will go where there's orderly supplies, where there's a highway, where there's gas, etc. Less or less, these are all some segments that concern your ministry and when it comes to gasification, when we spoke here about adopting the budget, the finance minister said that for this year the funds for the construction of the pipeline to Tutin were defined. I wonder what the dynamics of construction are, what's the plan, when all the Sanjak municipalities will get gassed? Also, what I'm interested in is what is the ministry's position, as far as it came when it came to the construction of the "Brodarevo 1 and 2" hydrocenter? Ten years ago, during the former government of a certain company in Canada, they tried to build these hydroelectrics, the local community was against it. The local community isn't familiar today. I wonder how far it's been, what are the planning documents? And what is necessary, in order not to have some challenges on the ground, is very important that the local community is involved and that it presents its position. What I have to remind you once again is that the city of Novi Pazar was several times the third in terms of air pollution. So they had this bronze place when it came to, even at global level, I mean behind Beijing and New Delhi very often there was a New Market because we still have lube and coal that are dominantly used when urban heats are at stake. These are certain questions to which I expect you to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5549	The MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic together submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have accepted the amendment with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with the correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I find that the amendment, with the correction, has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The amendment is proposed by Dr Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5550	The respected chairman, respected vice presidents, respected colleagues and respected Serbian citizens, very briefly. Just to see how precise this law is and how detailed it goes, this amendment only makes it clear that all those who have an energy permit to build power-generating facilities, this permit, if there are any changes before the construction permit itself is issued, can change in one part, in order to coordinate and solve certain problems they had in preparation for construction, or in preparations for obtaining a building permit. So, the law is flexible and adapts itself to the needs of the market, i.e. the needs of those who should rightly create these production facilities and those projects that are in place, if certain problems arise in realisation, or the preparation of building permits, everything can be changed and adapted to those needs. What's very important is that they know that they don't have to worry that all of this will be planned and what is needed to implement will be governed by sublegal acts, but it is important to know that all these projects will definitely require co-operation with local self-government. This co-operation with local self-government is a guarantee that these jobs can be done in accordance with deadlines and won at speed. I know that just by confirming that through the Ministry of Construction we have managed to use local self-government, under the terms of the quote – we will use, for the quick realization of building permits and project realization. This same methodology will be changed and in this case, so local self-government will not certainly be the brakes of these projects, will be at the service of the citizens, but also of the people who want to deal with electricity production and who want to do projects of interest for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5551	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5552	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment that my colleagues submitted to article 21 concerns a member of the 35th basic law. A member of the 35th basic law regulates energy permits, a way of obtaining energy permits and what is done with that energy permit, and the amendment is only closer to organizing one construction part of the subject-matter of the energy permit itself. However, I must note that Serbia has been much behind on the issue of energy permits for a long time, not since this law has been in place, there are some other reasons. The 2011 Energy Act was the opening of a road to abuses in the energy area and trade in energy licenses. That is why Serbia today does not have enough facilities, or enough energy from renewable sources to give that energy. What's going on? The former regime literally issued energy permits on every river, stream, stream, windscreen, energy permits that were not designed to build these facilities, but to trade. Energy licenses were sold. So, the Ministry issued an energy license to a particular person, that particular person reserved an energy facility for a particular move and traded with a future investor to sell him that energy license. Therefore, it should not be surprising that Article 35 of the basic law concerning this amendment provides that the energy permit is not transferable, which unfortunately was not the case in the law passed by the former regime in 2011. How serious this was business and serious business is also saying that, in the period from 2012 to the entry into force of the basic law, it was virtually impossible for the current Energy Minister to initiate any procedure for the construction of renewable energy facilities. I would not now like to mention the names of people who had almost 90 percent of the energy licenses issued by the former regime because of other things, because it is about family members of some prominent citizens of the Republic of Serbia and it is not necessary for them to suffer, but we MPs know who it is. It just shows how far the former regime was willing to go, that they had no idea of doing something good for Serbia, that Serbia would make it more energy-efficient, more efficient, to be under less pressure from the Energy Community. They were interested exclusively in their personal, private profits from jobs they did in certain ministries and state bodies. Therefore, we should not be surprised why so many former regimes, now headed by Dragan Gilas, want to return to power in the Republic of Serbia. They are interested only in profit, there is no talk about protecting the environment, about environmental science, about the health of our citizens, about energy efficiency and security, they are interested only in profit. Just look at the laws they passed, you'll see that the laws were written so that they could get rich in private, and Serbia would literally fall to the last dinar that they took from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5553	Thank you. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does the promoter, Dr. Birmancevic, want a word? (No) Since the system is full, then we shall be of the messengers of the people. The word has a folk MP, Olja Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5554	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, last week we are in discussion in principle, and today we are talking in particular about an important set of laws in the field of energy and mining, and these laws are important because they are the basis for moving from word to action, i.e. to the energy transition process and to allow us to have climate neutral developments in the next period. The Climate Change Act that we recently adopted represents a related roof law in this area and allows low-carbon development, making our economy and industry look completely different in the coming decades. In the proposals for legislation in this area, it is precisely a priority to preserve the environment and the proposed laws allow the creation of a new investment plan and to build our energy security in the coming years and decades on large and medium-sized hydropower plants with solar and wind power plants and the use of biomass. The goal is to avoid pollution, breathe clean air, which is, we'll all agree, ambitiously both for Serbia and for the whole world, but something has to come from something. We need to increase renewable energy sources. Our goal is to green Serbia, where by 2040, at least 40% of energy will come from renewable sources. Serbia is ready to take big steps towards that. So among these laws is one of the most modern laws in this area that will allow us to use more renewable energy sources and that someday, hopefully, will replace all laws because we will only have renewable energy sources. Environmental protection is the essence of all these laws, and I would look this way and stress the fact that this law regulates the construction of a mini power plant. In fact, this law prohibits the construction of all hydropower plants in protected areas, regardless of type and strength, which protects particularly protected areas. The law now reflects the rivers that were covered by inadequate solutions. The issue of preserving the environment should not be used to score political points, as no problem is solved on the streets, but this is exactly how legal solutions are dealt with. The only construction of hydropower plants is possible if the government finds that it is of national, or exceptional importance, public and general interest, and it refers only to medium and large power plants. I would also refer this way to the part that I saw that and how interested the citizens in my constant conversations with them. In fact, citizens in these laws have seen a great improvement for them, they understand the essence, they have a desire to act on them and they are very interested in the customer-producer relationship, which allows citizens to put solar panels on their roofs, that they have the same value of the energy they put into the network and the one they buy. When citizens set up solar panels, they use that energy for their own consumption, but when they have excess, they can put that energy into the system, at the same cost as they bought energy. This will make citizens' accounts much smaller. If, for example, excess energy is added to the energy spent, when using annual holidays, when people are not at home, an energy credit will be created for the next month, when the account will be reduced accordingly. All of this will, in a positive sense, have a sensitive impact on people's home budgets. This is an investment that can be paid for each citizen for a period of eight to ten years, and the solar panels currently on the market last about 20 years, which would only result in profit and profit after payment. The area of all the roofs in Serbia is about 600km square and if only 10% of them were found under solar panels, it would represent huge potential. Serbia is introducing the latest trends and energy efficiency in line with EU regulation, thus introducing and forming an energy efficiency management, which will take over funding and realisation activities for improving and resuscitating facilities, but besides institutions that have public purpose, here is now a newspaper that includes private-owned facilities. It is brand new to allow citizens to finance 50 to 50% for replacing windows, doors, replacing and improving façade insulation, as well as for interventions on heating systems inside houses and buildings. The administration finances 25%, local self-government 25%, while citizens themselves will finance half or 50%. The start of work of the mentioned administration is expected in May and citizens will be provided with pre-accounts by companies dealing with the replacement of windows, doors, isolation or interventions on the heating system and competition will be conducted by municipalities, and the way the funds are allocated will be compared to 50 to 50, as I have already pointed out. This process is long, given the number of households in our country, but this is an important start. Also, 28 cities of the state administration will be energy-recovered in the coming period. The legal framework opens a story towards energy transition, towards renewable energy sources and enables both state and private investment. The response of citizens, businesses, investors is already great because the law is in the interest of all of us, that is, in the interest of all citizens. This topic is of paramount importance because in this way they protect themselves from destroying natural resources that are not renewable, but we also prevent environmental pollution in which we live, which will contribute to the quality of life as well as to the health of all of us. We want a Serbia that will continue to progress and develop, which is taking large steps forward in every sense, without polluting or to a lesser extent polluting the environment. It's a long-term process, but this is certainly a good start. That is why in the voting day, together with the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", I will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5555	I thank the People's MP, Olija Petrovic. Members of the 59th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, has become an integral part of the draft law, with the correction. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5556	Dear colleagues, a respected minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, what is a fact, a respected minister, that you, leading a different ministry earlier, have had envious results and probably recommended you for the work you are doing today in this session. Before the debate we are having, you and I met in the halls of this building and told me – here I am again in the assembly. I took it as a intention to seriously do your job that you are doing today within a new ministry and that you intend to achieve some new good results on the new job you are doing. It was, of course, those results before. When I say -- you, I think of you here personally, but also of the government and the president, whose integral part you are, part of the government, of course, and the president as one of the most important institutions that Serbia and the Serbian people have today. These laws are a confirmation of your intentions and confirmation of my claims. Namely, these laws are something that introduces Serbia and harmonizes this area with current flows in the developed part of Europe, but also the world anyway. These laws are something new in the field of energy, the beginning of a new era, but they have a much broader aspect. I think these laws, in addition, are the basis for new investments in Serbia, and let's be realistic, without new investments in Serbia, there is no development of Serbia. With all due respect to what you said, my personal opinion is that this component of these laws may be the most important. When I talk about Serbia's development, I cannot limit myself to just what is within Serbia's borders. Serbia's development is based on the system of external vessels, so to speak, and how it relates to the development of all our people, the better life of every human living in the environment, especially the Republic of Serbia. There, it will turn out to praise you, but I am indeed a personal witness that you have been and how you have defined that such a policy conveys the benefits of the development of the Republic of Serbia, that such a policy continues, that you have done your part to make the benefit of the development of Serbia feel our citizens living in Republika Srpska, in particular. I won't list individual projects because it would take a long time, but I think it's important to know, as I think it's important to know that when we vote this year's budget, we supported the bank guarantees that were in the budget, and I think it's something more than 260 million, and it's about building up the hydroenergy potential of Gornja Drina, along with the Republika Srpska. It's a thing to repeat, it's a serious, historic thing. Come on, how important it is in terms of investment and everything that will bring about the well-being of Serbia and Republika Srpska and every man who lives there, but it is a historic thing because in Serbia's budget, I think, for the first time, such serious things as building "Hydro-energy potentials of Gornja Drina" and "The Trebinje Airport" are directly in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. As you told me earlier, also in the conversation that this project will soon be official and setting up a cornerstone for construction, and it certainly delights every man, I am sure in both Serbia and Republika Srpska. In order to, of course, manage to do these things with the Republika Srpska, we need investments, and to have investments, we need these laws, which you are bringing to this respected home today. But the Honorable Minister will never forgive you for that, ever. The development of Serbia, the better life of our citizens, whether they live in some of the countries of the region,1 will not forgive you. You will have various protests and various oppositions under the hat of fighting for a better state of environmentalism or God knows what different requirements, but make sure that behind that every request lies the motive of stopping Serbia and the Serb people in the Balkans, in general, and nothing else, absolutely nothing else. You saw it the other day. It was directly linked to what your Ministry is doing. However, there will be the most important support for this parliament, and even more important support for citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Whenever you come to this Parliament with such motives and ideas, you will have the support you've had so far, both you and the Government, and the President, and so will be when it comes to these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5557	Thank you. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a national MP Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5558	I thank the Honorable Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, is ahead of us a set of laws on energy, on the use of renewable energy sources and the efficient and rational use of energy, submitted by the Ministry of Mining and Energy. We are aware of the importance of energy and energy in the 21st century and that it is impossible to imagine today the life and functioning of today's world without electricity and without energy. In Serbia, irrational consumption is noticeable, both electricity and heat. In an extensive discussion of the laws, we had the opportunity to hear, both from my colleagues and from you, a respected minister what is all foreseen by a set of these laws and how important it is that these laws are adopted here today, both for the sake of the economy and for the improvement of the quality of life of citizens. We have also had the opportunity to hear how much mineral wealth our country owns and how important it is for this area to be regulated, but how much our country can make out of this area. I would just once again remind all citizens that at this point in the Republic of Serbia, almost 75% of electricity is generated from the thermal power plants and we are all aware of how much this negative impact has on the environment and it is necessary that we all have to strive together towards so-called. green energy. Also, I would very much like to commend your co-operation with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, especially if we bear in mind that we recently passed the Climate Change Act here. A few days ago, we had a chance to see the so-called. Environmental uprising, a front for political protests organised by individuals, who are trying to pick up political points on environmental issues. In that protest, we saw both Zoran Lutovac and other false environmentalists. They thought they'd shut down Te, the Iron Man in Smederev, Bor overnight. Neither is it possible, nor is it real. What we can do and what we have to do is make regulations and laws, so that environmental pollution is minimal. They were 12 years old, who had gambled and were not interested in air pollution, and neither in Bor, nor in Smederev, did they receive salaries for years. But that didn't stop Dragan Gilas from taking up an apartment in Bora. Their only concern for environmental protection was that action – Let's clear Serbia, and in fact they cleared the budget of the Republic of Serbia and filled their budgets in Mauritius, Switzerland, in Hong Kong. But the people see everything and know clearly that this interesting political group has no other goals than to strengthen the state, bring down economic growth and the standard of living of citizens. When 15 years ago, we watched protests in Italy over wearing natural fur, it was unimaginable that something like this would happen in Serbia, because 15 years ago, citizens had much bigger problems, they had basic existential problems, they didn't know whether their salary would lie down. Today Serbia is economically stable, we have the largest growth in both the region and Europe. The highways are being built, we have a larger inflow of foreign investment and it is good on the one hand to raise awareness in the preservation of the environment, but there is bitter taste, that these protests are just another dance of the so-called. The opposition, these environmental problems didn't arise yesterday, but they've been piled up for decades and they can't be solved in one day. SNS policy is clear, and this is a better standard of living for citizens, and it is these laws that we are discussing today every citizen and we are going to get energy from renewable sources of energy, and that every household has an opportunity to improve the energy efficiency of the facility, through aid and subsidies, the incentive to produce biofuels to reduce the emissions of harmful gases by low carbon development strategy, although perhaps at present it has nothing to do with today's topic, I must appeal to all citizens to vaccinate and respond to vaccinations, because we have four vaccines available and I would really ask all citizens to be vaccinated, because in order to be able to keep the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have provided sufficient numbers of vaccines, we have four vaccines, available, and I would really ask all citizens to be vaccinated, because to be able to continue to develop these projects as well as a country, as well as we can be able to develop. In voting day, I will support a set of these laws, along with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5559	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Rajki Matovic. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy to Article 62. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment and therefore delete the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5560	Of course, we accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5561	The People's Messenger Gojko Palalic has the word. (Veroljub Arsic: First applicant of the amendment. I'm sorry, you're right, just to delete the list, so you can sign in. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. The system is a little blocked, I pray for patience, I delete the list, and I pray that it registers exclusively Veroljub Arsic, while I give it my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5562	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the amendment mentioned above, have arranged for a part of the area that hasn't been arranged for decades, and this is about our power plants, i.e. trafo stations, individual high voltage networks, for low voltage, I'm sure there are thousands of kilometers, which haven't been registered, registered in an immobility cadasar, and I can say that under the current law on public procurement and maintenance, and it's not possible from public sources, nor from the revenues generated by the users of these power plants for that very reason. This amendment provides the possibility for these power plants to be typed into the immobility cataster, and to bring the actual state of affairs to justice when it comes to our power plants. This shouldn't be surprising, why it's like this. One excuse that may have been true in decades ahead of us that these objects were built in large part of the 1970s, accelerated electrification, because you know how they were done in the time of the socialist Yugoslavia, whether they wanted to or not wanted to, was expropriation of land confiscation, often and without compensation, but these are some other times that we are suffering the consequences today, and it's not the topic of what I want to say about this amendment, but was it taken so many decades to solve a problem like this. It just shows how the former regime treated the Republic of Serbia and its good and its electricity system. More importantly, the electricity system was used for the famous theft of electricity made by Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, or it was much more important that the then minister who led the area of planning for construction, i.e. the legalisation of Šumarac, established the Engineering Chamber. It didn't matter if our power system had valid permits, valid building permits, to be registered in a catastre, that "Electrodition" with it could be available in full capacity, it was more important to make an NGO, give it public authority according to the law of the time and charge commissions, or license the engineers of all in Serbia who, because of the nature of their work, would have to have a license, and of that, Mr. Minister Šumarac, nice to live, that nothing works, and that in one way, provides himself with early retirement which is the dream of many people, but only shows what their relationship is...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5563	Excuse me, if you want longer than two minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5564	My colleague, we've been MPs long enough for you and me to know that when the second minute passes, I use the time of the parliamentary group. Don't warn me.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5565	All right, just to point out, you're speaking as a representative of the Committee now, but then I'm subtracting from the parliamentary group. Here you go. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5566	Please don't interrupt me for this next time. We're showing the relationship the former regime had with the Republic of Serbia. One of the most important systems of economic, economic, life, is the energy that we need to live, and they didn't take care of that part at all, they only took care of how to make sure that they didn't do anything, that the more money came and continued to rob and deceive Serbian citizens in each of the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5567	Thank you. The People's Messenger Gojko Palalic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5568	Thank you, Chairman. We today have submitted amendments to an extremely important set of laws in the field of energy and mining, which is fully in line with the highest European standards, EU directives or recommendations of the Energy Community. Nikola Tesla spoke -- energy, it's a key problem for the future, life or death issues. Current energy sources are unreliable and poisoning our planet. We may survive that poisoning, but the day will come when your energy sources will dry. Just by adopting and implementing these laws, we move from word to deed, we move forward in strong steps in the energy transition process, and all of this in line with environmental protection, which is the essence of the adoption of all these laws. Serbia must today be as energy efficient as possible. The bill on energy efficiency and rational use of energy provides, among other things, for the establishment of an energy efficiency administration, where citizens will be able to apply through subsidies for the replacement of carpentry, windows, doors, roof coverings or insulation facades, all in order to increase the energy efficiency of the household itself. With the draft law on renewable energy sources, Serbia continues its path towards achieving the goal of becoming a climate neutral country by 2050. What is particularly important is to point out that we in Serbia built several wind parks in the previous period, which also affect the increase in the share of renewable energy production. For example, the wind farm in Kovin, which was released in 2019 with 57 vertroturbin is the largest wind farm in the Western Balkans. This wind farm provides electricity for 113,000 households, reducing carbon dioxide emissions at an annual level of 370,000 tonnes. The investment was worth about 300m euros. Vetropark in Kovacica, which was released also in 2019, provides electricity for 60,000 households. Vetropark in Alibunar, released in 2018, provides electricity for 38,000 households. These are just some of the postcards from Banat, which all of us should be proud of today, because none of these wind parks today would have existed if it hadn't been for the conduct of responsible Serbian President Alexander Vukic, that Dragan Gilas and former regime representatives today were asking questions, they would probably have replaced these divergences from Banat with postcards from Hong Kong, Switzerland, Mauritius or some other exotic countries where Dragan Gilas has open accounts. I am really glad that we can talk about wind parks today, and energy efficiency, because these topics tell us just how much Serbia has changed, of course for the better, because there is no longer a problem for number one in Serbia a high unemployment rate, as it was in the period before 2012, when it was about 27%, today this unemployment rate is below 10%. We continue to create new jobs, end paths that have been unfinished for years, and build those we could only dream of until yesterday, grow wages and pensions. From 2014 to today, more than 600m euros have been invested in the construction of a smoke gas suspect facility in thermal plants, and by the end of this year we are starting to build a wastewater treatment plant in 27 local self-government in Serbia. What I particularly want to point out when we talk about energy efficiency, I think it's one example of good practice, it's just New Sad, where Novosadska heat, besides producing heat, produces electricity and Novosadian heat, belongs to a range of heat in some Scandinavian countries. None of this would have been possible if there hadn't been a smart investment in modernising the efficiency of the district heating system, because it is the efficiency of the district heating system today in Novi Sad that is about 89%, while the average in EU countries is around 78%. Given that 75% of the territory of the city of Novi Sad is covered by this remote heating system, it is this degree of coverage according to World Bank data that sets out Novi Sad among the cities that have the highest heat coefficient in Europe. So, Novi Sad, also with strong steps forward, moves towards winning the third prestigious European title, the title of the Green Capital of Europe, and becomes a real green city, in the right sense. However, today I want to look briefly and to the ecological gathering, the ecological protest, I no longer know what they call it, which has been held recently, which I think is completely pointless and absurd, given that we have recently adopted the Climate Change Act in this assembly, where the debate on amendments and amendments to the Nature Protection Act has been concluded, and that this law is expected to enter the assembly procedure soon. At the meeting, they discuss the construction of a mini hydropower plant on protected areas, and it is the law on renewable energy sources that prohibits the construction of a mini power plant in protected areas. So, we are all here and more clearly aware that the gathering was politically inspired by the former regime's representatives, whose check holds Dragan Gilas, whose hatred for Alexander Vukic if it was turned into electricity, could certainly shed light on several cities. Thanks to the conduct of Serbia's responsible policy, Alexander Vukic, we can today go into the realisation of many projects and allocate significantly greater resources to increase the share of renewable energy production, all in order to increase, or improve the quality of life of citizens, improve the environment, create new green jobs, and also focus Serbia on green energy and green economy. So, in the voting day, together with my fellow MPs from the Aleksandar Vukic Group – For our children, I will support this important set of laws in the field of energy and mining, and I call on other MPs to do the same, because only by adopting and implementing these laws we will succeed in improving the situation in this area, and all of this in accordance with the protection of the environment which represents the essence of the adoption of all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5569	The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5570	Many times we've mentioned this so-called. ecologically, I would call them a political protest, not a uprising, it is known what the uprisings are and when they were and what they were bringing, but the environmental protest was political and it was hypocritical because, first of all, we can't share in our country by whose air is, whose country is, and whether someone cares more about that air, and someone is less concerned about that air, or someone more concerned about the country or not, and there's no impression that they were at all interested in the air, or the earth, or the water, or the river, and I'm going to tell you why. We have proposed, by this law, the truth, the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, the ban on construction of small hydropower plants, or all hydropower plants in protected areas, but I want to explain to you why we did it. First of all, small hydropower plants aren't a bad source. Hydropower plants aren't a bad source at all. On the contrary, the whole world has them and the whole world is building them. Serbia has built in the previous six years 195 megawatts of small hydropower plants, 33 are located in protected areas. Something happened in those six years that caused us to ban it today in the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, and also to be aware that we are not forgetting that we are a nation that knows how to build hydropower plants and which built the first hydropower plant in 1900 and 1903 in Vucje, and before that, this one at Užica. So, they're not a bad source of energy, they're a green energy source, but someone who realized those projects in the previous period, and I don't have any problem saying that no one is angry, it's the previous environment minister and some other people who were involved in the realisation of small hydropower plants, they put us in a position that these little hydropower plants were realized in ways that were not adequate. They were neither in accordance with the law nor in compliance with the criteria, nor were they able to bring in what they were supposed to bring in, which is green energy in clean and normal conditions. On the contrary, they have brought trouble to the locals. This is true and we have now responded in some way and banned small hydropower plants, but those who talk today about not having to build small hydropower plants, which are the leaders of that story, one of them is called Alexander Jankovic Ćita, if I haven't made a mistake last name, is the same man who wanted to build a small hydropower plant in 2016. He's been doing it for two years. He didn't even go through regular procedures, but he was looking to find certain links around the government to come and get an energy license for his small hydropower plant, and then he met the president, and he asked that the hydropower plant, like the Turn, which is a state power plant, not to allow the expansion of that capacity, because he wanted to build his own small hydropower plant. It's the same silent thing today that's talking about how to ban all hydroelectric power plants. So that protest and those people who were there, there were certainly those who were there because they cared about the environment, but those who led the protest were those who dealt exclusively with politics. So, we're going as a government and as a state, we're going to check all the built-in little hydropower plants. We'll do their review and see who hasn't done their job well and why we as the only country in the world, along with Bosnia and Herzegovina, are now banning small hydropower plants. So those who were responsible will answer, because that's how the responsible state works, but those who deal with politics for their own interests, explaining how much they prefer the environment, than those who sit here, so these people believe that when they show up in the elections, citizens will show how much they believe their story, but I wanted you to know the first reason. So there were problems in the units of local self-government that brought in the plans without checking whether they had the river at all or did not have the river. There was a problem that the Ministry of Environment of Mr. Trivan hadn't brought in any rules that were meant to be passed for years. There was a problem with investors getting out of their licenses. There were problems at the Nature Protection Department that gave him conditions, so he changed the conditions. Imagine now, if you start to do something and build and get conditions from the Nature Protection Institute and then they change those conditions in a year? So, there were problems and we're going to solve them by doing a review. We have currently banned small hydropower plants, but Serbia's public needs to know that we are going to solve these problems and that the source of hydroelectric power plants, therefore water, are not bad sources, but are sources that will eventually be banned, and those who use it to explain how much they care about Serbia's water streams have nothing to do with caring about the environment, but only with their own name and politics, because these are the same people who wanted to build small hydropower plants and thought it was the best source in the world. These are the silent ones and everyone else, so I want you to know the reasons why we've made these decisions and why we're proposing them to parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5571	Thank you. Members of the 91st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk letter from Nevenka Kostadinov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5572	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this is the second day we are discussing a set of four very important laws in the field of energy. These laws regulate our country's energy stability, allow for growth and development of the economy through investments in green energy, as well as the preservation of the environment, which is one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the European pathway. One of those four laws is brand new and refers to the production of renewable energy. Energy generation from renewable sources is the future in energy on a local, regional and global scale. Energy from renewable sources is the only link that provides an opportunity for smooth growth and economic development and parallel to that for the preservation of the environment. Serbia as the responsible country with first priority, recently passed the Climate Change Act that regulates environmental protection, and now on the agenda we have four sets of laws in the field of energy that regulate our country's energy stability. Renewable sources of energy, energy from the sun, wind, water streams, biomass energy, thermal energy, tide energy and tides are an alternative to fossil fuels on the way to carbon neutrality. This is because we have two big problems with fossil fuels. The first is that the stocks of these fuels are limited, they are quickly spent, they are not refurbished, they are unevenly distributed, only one part of the state owns them, so that the countries are dependent on imports of energy in a subordinate position. Examples of this are the stocks of fast - running oil, and prices are constantly rising from day to day. The development and use of renewable energy sources contributes to the more efficient use of its own potential in energy production, the reduction of fossil fuel imports, the development of local industry and the creation of new green jobs. Another major problem is the harmful impact of fossil fuels on the environment due to carbonisation and greenhouse effect, leading to climate change that continues to manifest extreme droughts, heavy rainfalls, floods and other weather conditions. Given Serbia's commitment on the European path, these laws bring into line with European legislation and regulates the area of renewable energy sources, with the aim of ensuring as much investment in clean energy as possible and the creation of green jobs in the future. The application of this law will allow Serbia to progress both in the economy and in energy transition and decarbonisation. The adoption of this law will be a clear signal that investors invest in renewable energy sources with us. The law also allows each consumer to be a producer, resulting in significant savings. This law prohibits the construction of mini-hydropower plants in protected areas. Serbia is one of the three countries in the region, along with Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has banned the construction of mini-hydroelectric power plants in protected areas, and for the reasons that we have had failures in the past, both by local self-government and by investors, which we have had the opportunity to see that locals have very often pointed out. The law on renewable energy sources is particularly important for undeveloped and devastated areas, because they possess great potential in the areas of renewable energy sources. I, as usual, will look back at my end, south of Serbia, to the municipality of Bosilegrad, where I come from. My Bosilegrad municipality is underdeveloped and belongs to the fourth group of the most underdeveloped devastated municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. The reason is a lot, and I've talked about it here before. However, today I will look back on one of the advantages that my Bosilegrad municipality owns, which is the energy potential right in the energy of wind, water, sun and biomass. The sun's energy is an inexhaustible source of electricity and solar power plants, and my municipality's territory has 300 sunny days without wind of 365 days a year. Research carried out on two solar power plants built on the territory of the municipality of Bosilegrad has produced extraordinary results, both in terms of electricity produced and in the rate of return of invested investments in the construction of these solar power plants. Wind energy is a constant source of electricity generation from wind power plants, where wind energy is converted through wind power plants. The Bosilegrad municipality's territory has about 30 mountain peaks with a constant wind current of 365 days a year and is at the very top of it in the Republic of Serbia. This is the result of research in the past ten years conducted in two locations in my municipality, one on Milevska Planina and the other on Mount Crnook. The results have been remarkable, according to the amount of constant currents and wind speeds, which guarantee stable electricity generation and also restore investment in wind power plants. Water energy is also an unexhausted resource for the production of electricity from hydropower plants, and in the area of our municipality in the past period six mini-hydropower plants have been built from a total of 34 potential locations. To stress that the first water power plant in my municipality was built in 1928 and was also among the first water power plants in the Republic of Serbia. I can't help but mention the energy potential in biomass, because most of my community's territory is covered by forests. Forests are a very important potential for undeveloped landscapes, as many provide the possibility of existence in their place on the centuries-old hearth just from exploitation, from cutting and exploiting forests. Many thus provide existence to their families, raise children, and educate them, using forest potential. Unlike other renewable energy sources, such as the sun, water and wind, which are truly inexhaustible, wood as raw materials for biomass is a renewable resource, but it is a resource that we need to devote a little more to. Here, first of all, I'm thinking of taking care of the woods, of their plan-cutting and exploiting and, most importantly, of shaming. I was talking about it here when we had the Climate Change Act on the agenda, and here, I'm going to do it again, given that the Climate Change Act and the Law on Renewable Energy are very close, and their goals are in many ways consistent. Due to growing demand for wood, either as raw materials for wood industry or as biomass, cutting and exploiting forests are increasingly intense. It is understood that we expect this natural growth and an increase in wood mass. But we can't just rely on it, and especially not at a time when it's cutting more and more intensely, when hectares under the woods disappear. Very often, I don't always say, after cutting the tree, the parcels that don't get cleaned up and the forest are left to grow into thorns and bushes, and in a few years, it's almost impossible to get into those moves. On the other hand, we have a mass drying of cetins, which also carries hectares under the woods, and they don't rustle. The abandoned agricultural land that no one deals with, pastures that have no livestock for years are also fields that should be used for foresting. That is why I believe that the task of all resolution ministries in the government, local self-government and each individual is to make every single one of us a maximum commitment to this problem, to encourage shaming at every step, because shaming is the most rewarding investment both in energy stability and in a healthy environment. If we treat the forests this way, they will also be our renewable resources of clean energy and our green clean air factories in the future. In the end, I stress, because of the importance of these four laws, that I, as well as my fellow MPs, will support these laws for our children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5573	Thank you. Members of the 95th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5574	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Minister, I am pleased that you are very often in this high house with your associates, sometimes there are more of them than, unfortunately, certain parliamentary groups in this high house, which we can see from the attached, which speaks of your commitment to work. I am sure that these laws that are on the agenda these days are extraordinary and that they will be realised in the future, in due course, following your work in the former governments of the Republic of Serbia. Respected citizens, a strategy for developing modern, modern states or a geopolitical strategic assessment identify three key resources in the future, namely energy, food and water. As a result, sufficient energy represents the primary resource, while also providing sufficient resources, which is food and water. If we have this in mind, it is clear that energy is important to preserve our country's long-term national security, because without energy security, there is no talking about Serbia's national security. So he was right about our Serbian and world scientist, Nikola Tesla, who said, quote: "The development and wealth of one city, the success of one nation, the progress of all human work are strictly defined by energy, available for use," finished the quote. And our Serbian Prime Minister from 2014, and today the current President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, said in his famous Expoze on page 28, I quote: "The task of this portfolio is thought of by the Ministry of Energy, is to ensure Serbia's energy stability and security, namely enough energy and energy at sustainable prices," the quote concluded. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is the current president of the Republic of Serbia, and former Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic said in 2014. We realized that today. We reached that level, and we were at a very low level in that area. And the government of Ana Brnabic, as the government of continuity, paid great attention to that energy resource. It is enough to mention the construction of a new block of the Kostolac B3 thermal power plant and the largest investment in the past three decades of the domestic energy sector. Serbia's energy future is in increasing energy efficiency, on the one hand, building medium and large hydropower plants and gas power plants. That's the future. We are currently inefficient and we know that. That's why we're throwing out a thermal power plant. That is why energy efficiency is a new source of energy for us and Serbia, as you can see, the Ministry has proposed and is heading in that direction. All European countries will gradually reduce the production of coal electricity, but it will not go as quickly as our president said two days ago. It's going to happen gradually. No one's going to shut down the thermal power plants and the nettles, but they won't be out of a job as many workers as we're being threatened by certain NGOs. Poland will not stop its thermal power plants, but only in 2050 it is their plan, when energy from other sources is provided, and it will be the same case with us. So we're going to go gradually. Serbia's future is not in small hydropower plants because it is small production and should only be built where it is acceptable. The amendments to the laws governing energy efficiency will establish an energy efficiency management that will rely not only on money from our republican budget, but also on international partners from European funds and that is a good plan and I think it will be realised. It is through this fund that we want to support the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to replace the windows and doors, because these days we have a lot of questions about this, to resolve the issue of individual bars, because they are among the biggest polluters today. To see certain effects, we will need some time and it will not be in one year, as the minister predicted, it will take at least three years. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, during the party Dragan Dilas or for Europe "Dilas", Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, the energy sector was devastated, not to say completely destroyed. 50 billion euros have disappeared from this sector for their authorities. From 2001 to 2012, 20 billion euros were poured into the energy sector through donations, loans and some loans. What did they spend that money on? Nobody knows. Electricity prices have increased by 628 times during their government, and these are facts, and gas prices have increased by 450 times. Three billion euros have been allocated to electricity imports, worth three plants a year, and we have reached the level foreseen by the Prime Minister, and now the President of the Republic of 2014. To say, as you can see in the energy sector, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and their palos destroyed our past, destroyed our present, destroyed our children's future, and if only a year left in power, they would have destroyed our roots. Dear People's MPs, I will keep your attention and citizens of the Republic of Serbia very briefly to see the differences between the serious state policy of Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS on the one hand and the sick, destructive self-proclaimed, declared head of opposition Dragan Djilas and his associates Vuk Jeremic and Bosko Obradovic. First, we have an illegally built shed in Savala full of garbage, represented by Dragan Gilas today, and on the other hand we have Belgrade on water, Belgrade's pride and the Republic of Serbia. Is that how the respected citizens of Belgrade and Serbia are? On the one hand, we have a majority of Serbia's normal citizens living off their work represented by Aleksandar Vukic, and on the other hand you have thieves, frauds, lesbians, freebaroshes, luftigues based by Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic. Let's move on. On the one hand, you have benefited and improved for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the last seven years, especially the last three or four years, represented by Aleksandar Vukic, and on the other hand we have only personal interests, private combinations, secret accounts filled with stolen millions represented by Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic. Let's move on. On the one hand, we have the construction of highways, roads across the Republic of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic, and on the other hand we had devasted roads, Polish roads led by Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic. Let's move on. On the one hand, we have the construction of clinical centres, the construction of hospitals, the construction of hospitals in these difficult times led by President Aleksandar Vukic, and, on the other hand, abandoned buildings, hospitals, homes of health, unbuilt clinical centres, hospitals and health homes led by Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic. Let's move on. On the one hand, you have abandoned basics and high school without information technologies, without Internet introduction. Even here, we had attacks in this Assembly when we introduced them, represented by Dragan Đilas and Vuk Jeremic, and on the other hand you have the construction of new schools and reconstructed existing schools with dual education and information technologies represented by Aleksandar Vukic. On the one hand, you have destroyed Serbia's Army, destroyed weapons, Serbia's Army reduced to fire-fighting society, and on the one hand, led by Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Djilas, and on the other hand today we have an army on an enviable new, extremely well equipped that guarantees the stability of our country led by Aleksandar Vukic. On the one hand, we had destroyed factories, robbed by robbery privatisation of the economy symbolized by Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, and on the other hand had the construction of factories across the country, the real industrialisation and modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which is now headed by Aleksandar Vukic. Let's move on. On the one hand, you have great unemployment, 26.5% symbolized by Dragan Gilas and the layoff of workers, 743,000, this is the exact data, from 2008 to 2012, which symbolise, as I said, Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, and on the other hand we have reduced unemployment from 26.5% to only 9%, construction of hundreds of factories, large employment carried out by Aleksandar Vukic, the modernisation of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic. On the one hand, you have eight billion unpaid and forgiven taxes and contributions in order to rob a number of companies through privatisation, symbolised in the past times by Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, and on the other hand by the regular payment of taxes and contributions and the construction of hundreds of factories symbolized by Aleksandar Vukic. Finally, you have a policy of recognising Kosovo as an independent state symbolized by Dragan Đilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, Boris Tadic, Ceda Jovanovic, Nenad Canak and others, not to mention them, I have quoted here their statements, which they symbolized, so far, on the other hand you have a policy of territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, a policy of sovereignty, a policy of patriotism and patriotism led by our President Aleksandar Vukic. I don't want to talk about the protection and promotion of the human environment, related, respected minister, for this energy. They'll let you, I'll distract you, the honourable MPs, just to say about the former minister, one of the ministers who was an environmentalist, and that's Oliver Dulic, who was president of the Republika Srpska Assembly. The former minister, who was president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, paid billboards with a message -- "Let's Clean Serbia" more than half a million euros, and that's what the DRI says. The former environment and spatial planning minister in the government of the former regime, as well as the president of the National Assembly, unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia, paid half a million euros for advertising in a daily newspaper. That's where the respected citizens went. The minister in the former government of the former regime, and was president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Oliver Dulic, paid 25,000 euros for the development of the Clean Serbia site, the DRI said. The same minister, Djilasov, Jeremic, the former regime, in the former government, paid for the support of the lioness on Palic. This says "Politika", our esteemed paper, indeed, September 23, 2012 on page seven. The former regime's minister, Gilasov and Jeremic, and he was the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Oliver Dulic, used the funds of the Environmental Protection Foundation, believe it or not, for the DS election campaign. That's what Mladjan Dinkic said here, in this high house on 21 September 2012, in this National Assembly. As he acted, wastefulness, the former minister of the former regime, and he was president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia best spoke the data, believe it or not, but he did this -- he led a delegation to certain destinations, 22 people in 2009 when he was in Copenhagen for 11 days. It is by number of members of the delegations the largest in Serbia's history, and I believe, probably, Europe as well. Thus, respected citizens, your money Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and other lufti butts. Finally, while our President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, invests all his abilities in leading peace policy, the policy of security of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not only the Republic of Serbia, but also in the environment and Europe, a policy of solidarity, which proves daily at work, a policy of accelerated economic modernisation of Serbia, a policy of health of all our citizens in the country and the region, a policy of non-interruption in the internal problems of other countries, unlike other our neighbouring countries, until Dragan Gilas, for Europe Đilas, and Vuk Jeremic leads a policy of full, multiple accounts opened in the country and abroad and leads very often a policy of shame on his country and citizens by suing our country and citizens to various destinations, European destinations. Thank you. I will support these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5575	Thank you. The 95th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic, Snezana Paunovic, Ugljesa Markovic and Dijana Radovic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5576	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister Mihajlovic and his associates, today we have discussed many amendments that will rightly improve legal certainty when it comes to this set of laws and what we have had the opportunity to hear in the previous week when it comes to all these laws is the fact that today we have certainly a turning point in our country's current energy policy. This set of laws will take one big step forward because these legal solutions will harmonize, and exactly harmonize everything that we in Serbia today want to improve when it comes to energy itself and move towards the highest European standards. It is also important to point out that this set of laws envisions greater investment in energy, the growth of employees. You also announced that it will work to increase energy participation in our country's GDP from 5% to projected 9%. These solutions put the focus exactly what we talked about today on renewable energy sources and permanently define Serbia as a country that respects European standards when it comes to protecting the environment. I'm glad you mentioned the subject of environmentalism earlier. We've been listening a lot in the past few days and weeks to an absolutely strange attack on our country when it comes to ecology, when today and how you have the opportunity to see how our country's ecosystem is being preserved, how today the state is devoting huge resources and helping all of those projects that concern exactly renewable energy sources. We are also talking here today about investing in a green agenda which, I'm sure, in the next decades here in Serbia has been implemented, but it's amazing that today's sermons are held by people who haven't said anything about ecology, whose mandate was neither built nor worked, and we have to mention today when we have the highest level of investment. When we build so many new factories, so many new routes, of course, that there will be some problems and problems when it comes to environmental protection, which is usually a practice in all European countries that have a high level of investment, big investments, big GDP growth, and then normally the problem of the environment, which is the problem of the 21st century. Now that we can say that the state and how it pays great attention to all these problems we talk to everyone who wants to improve the environment and that's what's new compared to all the previous times. We just mentioned a variety of midwives, just like that certain Alexander Shutta, as they already call it, a failed investment in a mini power plant, in that business today, which he found fit to be a great fighter against the construction of hydropower plants, and not to mention that this man was the main investor, a failed investor, who wanted to build hydropower plants in our country, and it didn't work out for him, so somehow he remembered to be the main fighter right against the hydropower plant. When we talk about this problem, we have to mention today with this set of laws, as you said, we forbid the construction of all mini-hydroelectric power plants. That's a big one, maybe we can tell all those citizens who rebelled, really out of the pure heart, for a healthy environment, but we see that it wasn't their goal, or those ringleaders of protests, to act out something that would really advance the environment, to say – thank you to the Serbian Government, you've listened to us, you've respected certain criticisms, we can say that we have a partner in our government, in our bodies of our government. No, they're going to say, they're going to go out on the streets again, they're going to cause trouble again, and I say once again, their goal was political promotion, all these protests. So, the objective of the protest was political promotion and that all those individuals in the former regime were hidden behind these protests and that, as they always did, they used all these problems for the current problem, that they could show themselves as some environmental protectors, and that they were trying to destroy the government, that they would return to the full state register. So, which today is unlike their time, I say once again, on stable feet, and today we have a chance to see how much Serbia is out today for all of these things that we have a chance to talk about. What I think is a paradoxical situation in Serbia, is the fact that you today have people who want and advocate fresh air, while at the same time arguing not to build mini-hydroelectric power plants, which are exactly that green energy that we're talking about. So they don't pollute the environment. You have a situation we want cheap electricity, and we don't want coal on the other side, we don't want copies, and if, as we all know, Serbia has the cheapest electricity right across Europe. It is due to the fact that we today have an independent energy sector, that we have our own electricity generation and that that is why we can just keep that price of electricity at an acceptable level, which all our citizens can afford. That, as some countries do, we have defined ourselves as a different approach, so that we have imported electricity, certainly that electricity would be more expensive than it is today. The other day, I listened to the president, he said we're decadently at that point that we're not going to shut down Kostolac or Kolubara, but of course we want to talk about all the possible solutions that will reduce the share of coal deposits when it comes to our thermoelectric power plants. Exactly, the fact is that 65% of electricity is now, unfortunately, coming from a thermal power plant. We want, by the subsidies we're about to bring down that share, to transfer certain thermal power plants, such as Kragujevac, to biogas, or to gas itself, and thus to continue to protect the environment. I must say, I think, when we look at the situation of air protection in general, the fact is that thermal power plants are not the main contaminant, given that they are, the problem would be evident throughout the year. If they were that contaminant, we'd also have pollution all year round. The fact that pollution is the most in those winter months, and it comes from private bars. We can simply observe, the fact that today many who exploit coal sell raw lignite to us, and the fact that today we have big problems with these buyers, resellers, who for personal gain sell raw lignite in which there is 30-40% clay. So, in my opinion, the Ministry has to react to send a market inspection to see what's in that coal that they sell as coal, which isn't really coal. Then you have the fact that the environment is polluting. Of course, the citizens are going to accuse us from SNS, and I'm going to say they're going to deliver that invoice for the polluted environment, and in fact, a dozen individuals are getting rich all over Serbia. We all know that, and there's no need to talk about it in gloves anymore. I think the ministry has to work on that and direct inspections to see what kind of coal they sell and what kind of money they make. In Serbia, there are no untouchables, we showed that when we hit the strongest criminal group in the Balkans, when we practically put them all behind the lock in one day. So I think on this issue, the state has to show strength, and to show itself, in fact, where the problem is when it comes to the environment. We're aware of the problems we're talking about today. Also, Serbia's gasification is something we're conducting today. It's doing North Stream 2, it's about expanding the Banatian Courts, it's doing the Balkan Stream, and I'm sure, it's going to be something that's also going to make the issue of environmental protection easier, because once you go to gas, we're going to have a lot less of these exhaust gasses and everything's going to be much better. I come from Zlatibor, there we have good practice, an example that we have completed that first phase of gasification of the entire Zlatibor. Already larger hotels have joined the gas, which is the fact that today you have a lot less costs for all those individuals who have switched to gas. The first phase is over, the second is in progress, and we hope that it will be realised next year. Also, we hear announcements that Belgrade will be completely shut down by 2022. We have shut down the complete Vojvodina, and these are certainly the results behind which one responsible government stands. Today we can talk about good results when it comes to gasification. When we talk about wind parks, too, since I'm coming from Zlatibor, we can say it's a great potential. Our mountain represents when it comes to the construction of wind parks, we have certain investors who came and wanted to build, all these legal solutions we will facilitate the arrival of all investors and we hope to bring investors not only to Zlatibor, but to all those areas where we can make wind parks and thus produce electricity. That couldn't have been the case before. We had, as you yourself said, one three legal solutions, certain problems in those ministries that didn't recognize that whole potential of green energy. Today with these legal solutions, I am sure we will be able to bring more investors into wind parks and all of these renewable energy sources. Of course, when I'm talking about all of this, you've got the midwives again who'll say we don't need these wind parks, we don't need hydropower plants, we don't need anything that's completely normal in all of Europe. We have just seen that, as far as the wonders of Austria are concerned, huge financial resources are coming in for all these protests that are being seen on our streets, when it comes to environmental protection, and we can't help but notice that Austria today has 4,500 mini power plants, and Serbia doesn't have ten times less. And yet someone says today that we are disrupting the environment. They say we don't need wind parks because they kill birds. That's what we heard, an amazing thing. It seems that European birds are somehow better off avoiding all these obstacles than Serbian birds. So I'm talking about an absolute hypocrisy when it comes to all these topics. What's an amazing thing, I'll repeat, is that today you're constantly being placed by the untruths of those people who brought in various investors here. Here's an example of Rio Tinte, who brought him to Serbia? It wasn't us, not the SNS, who gave them all the rights to dig up, or explore lithium studies in Serbia. In 2004, we had Gilas, who praised the investment, who said that they would deal with finding lithium, that Serbia would be the strongest in the Balkans, and today we see that as soon as they saw that it might be politically useful to attack a particular investment, then they collapse into that investment and say that this is all the worst and that we absolutely should not investigate, or lithium, or invest in mining in our country at all. Once again we say, of course we won't shut down Kolubara, or Kostolac, or RTB Bor, we'll try to keep all of our capacities because there's a people working here. We invite all these opposition champions to go there so let them tell Kolubara worker that they will lose their jobs because they feel that it should not work in such a way, let them go to Smederevo and tell them that they should not work and that they should not receive salaries, that Serbia should continue to be in a situation like it was 10 years ago, when we allocated 300m euros from the budget to Smederjevska Jelizar, each year and patched up that huge hole in the budget. I believe that today we must maintain this level of investment, President Vukic is absolutely at that point in view that nothing will go out and that we will continue to invest in our mining base and that this is something that raises our country's GDP. But to invest in renewable energy sources, that's a fact. With these laws we confirm it and say once again, we will protect Serbia, preserve all its natural beauty for future generations. We love this country honestly and heartily, and we want to invest in this country, and we don't want to view it as a certain full state register, as all those who managed this country meant, so today we see that we have hundreds of millions of euros in accounts in over 50 countries, as far as we hear here that they have managed to get the money out. I say again, we'll invest in a green agenda. All these laws are in this sense good for our country and our parliamentary group will certainly vote for a whole set of laws and for the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5577	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Second item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE USE OF RESERVATION OF THE RESOURCES OF THE Energy. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic, as well as the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. People's MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic wrote their amendments to Article 4. It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as from the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the motionary's representative to make a statement on the amendment, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5578	Yes, we accept the amendment, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5579	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5580	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, have come before us these days to find very important constructive proposals for legislation in the field of energy, and I would personally refer to the proposal for a law on the use of renewable energy sources submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about renewable energy sources, it is important to note that they represent a kind of inexhaustible energy source from nature that is being restored at a certain time interval, sometimes entirely and sometimes partially. Renewable energy sources are exploited with the aim of producing electricity, heat and mechanical energy, and their significant sustainable characteristics are certainly environmental safety and reduced or reduced carbon dioxide emissions in the energy production process itself. Energy obtained from renewable sources, therefore, water, wind, sun and biomass facilitates access to clean and safe energy to a large number of people, thus giving incentives for social and economic development, contributing to society's impact on environmental challenges, but also climate change. Therefore, renewable energy technology provides an opportunity to limit carbon emissions in the atmosphere, without jeopardising access to energy, which has significant implications for the challenge of climate change. The importance of developing renewable energy sources is enormous and is primarily reflected in the creation of an inexhaustible energy approach, thus reducing the country's dependence on foreign resources, i.e. on imports of energy raw materials, as well as electricity and increasing its energy security and energy sustainability. In addition, whether they are used in a large range to provide energy or in a smaller range of power supplies, for example, some small rural electricity networks, renewable energy sources bring great health benefits because they create clean, safe energy, so energy without negative effects. Serbia as a responsible state, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia is aware of the importance of renewable energy sources, it proposes this very bill, namely the first law in Serbia on renewable energy sources. This law, as well as improved legal solutions in the field of energy efficiency, will boost investment and allow businesses and citizens to use more, products, but also sell renewable energy, as well as to use more rationally heat and electricity. What is very important and what should be pointed out to the citizens of Serbia is that this law introduces the so-called law. projectors, i.e. customers-producers. These are essentially citizens or firms that produce green energy for their needs and for the purposes of selling, therefore, on the market. To be more precise, the buyer-producer has the right to produce electricity for his own purposes, to store it and to deliver the excess electricity produced to the power system, of course, for sale. Also, the buyer-producer has the right to reduce the account during the next accounting period, i.e. the fee by the supplier for the excess electricity supplied to the electricity system. The same law introduces the so-called so-called law. Energy communities or cooperatives, i.e. how precisely and precisely in the draft law, writes communities of renewable energy sources. The primary objective of establishing these communities is to use renewable energy sources to meet the energy needs of community members in a sustainable way that includes environmental, economic or social benefits for members, for the local community and for society in general. The community develops, invests and implements renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. Another, in my opinion, very important item of this bill, which we should certainly point out to the citizens of Serbia, is the use of renewable energy sources in the area of heat energy. Therefore, heat, energy operators as well as households and communities that energy in an efficient way carry out the performance of production, distribution and supply of energy to customers can acquire incentive measures if they use heat pumps, solar energy, geothermal energy, biodegradable waste energy, biomass and other renewable sources and the unit of local self-government is responsible for the register of these energy entities, it prescribes incentives measures, conditions and procedures for the acquisition of the right to incentive measures, therefore, for those entities. Huge steps have been taken since this government and this assembly of parliament were formed, especially in the area of environmental conditions. First of all, we adopted the Climate Change Act, which places Serbia among the first Western Balkan countries, which raises the issue of environmental protection and environmental protection as their priorities. It's a national climate and energy plan. It is a new energy development strategy. Four laws in the field of energy and mining have passed a public debate, and today we are discussing them in the Assembly. So, seriously, they move and make fundamental decisions that change our energy sector, and at the same time we worry and fight for a healthier environment. As regards the very proposal for a law on the use of renewable energy sources, as well as the amendments submitted, it is important proposals for Serbia, because they are systematically governed by the area of use of energy from renewable sources, so I will personally, and I hope my colleagues in the voting day support this, as well as other proposals in the hope that they will be the basis for the fight for strong and modern Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5581	Thank you. The 4th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Dear People's MPs, since the amendment's proposing has priority, the word is Dr Boban Birmancevic. That means I'm erasing the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5582	The Honorable Chairman, thank you very much. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, the Law on the Use of Renewable Energy, perhaps one of the most important, all of them are the most important, but indeed the law that needs to answer many questions and that needs to just complete energy efficiency and all energy-related laws simply raise to one higher level and focus right now, and tomorrow the closure of thermal power plants. Maybe we're talking about 2030, 2040, 2050, and that's exactly up to this law. Or we're talking about creating a producer, creating some new value for people who do any job in Serbia, and they think that on their roof, in their backyard, or from the rest of the production they do, or any other way to produce electricity, they can simply be placed and found in this law on the use of renewable sources. Water, solar energy, wind parks, or wind, it just doesn't have a price, it gives us nature, and we don't have to pay anyone a invoice for the sun that shines and the wind that blows and the water that nature has given us. What we can and what we can improve is precisely the production of electricity on biomass, i.e. the gas produced from renewable sources, that is, from the production that is most representative in Serbia, which is agricultural production. We have a clear choice and we simply have on the one hand the choice of green and healthy Serbia, on the other hand we have the burning of plant residues and the burning of everything we think we don't need, and it can just be used to produce biogas, or power. We all know, and it's just amazing that in 2021 we're talking about burning plant residues, so we're even witnessing traffic being stopped on the highway or on certain masteral, local roads and not talking, and that's all caused by the burning of plant remains. It's simple, believe it or not. This particular plant residue is the best raw material and raw materials needed to produce electricity. By law, beware, the law is forbidden. It's not some interpretation, it's not a regulation, it's illegal at this point in time to manufacture and build small hydropower plants. So we're putting an end to it at this point, the law is forbidden. Just so everyone knows, there's no, yeah, under certain conditions. No, at this point the law is forbidden and no one will build hydropower plants, especially in the protected area. What is also important is that this law will not slow down and slow down the construction of anything that is in accordance with the law and that is in line with nature and in line with the interests of Serbian citizens. On the other hand, no one will be able to resist, nor will they be allowed, to issue a building permit to build some potential for electricity generation, and to say after a certain time – well, now you have no right to do so. So, the state will be responsible, the ministry will be responsible, that the permits issued are in the interest of the state, in the interest of the environment and in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. It's a rule that, I'm sure, will be the leading rule in this ministry. All these laws go in this direction that, among other things, as we have defined clearly and loudly that there are no hydropower plants in the protected area and there is no condition for someone to build it, so clearly and loudly, we have to answer the question of those who at the same time protect employees, under the circumstances, in thermal power plants, and at the same time seek to shut down the thermal power plants and produce green energy. They have to decide how they're going to lie to the citizens. Because the only thing they're doing right now is a lie. The politics of lies and Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic and the entire yellow company, so that no one is offended, that I don't skip someone, is simply a policy that has no future and let them see what happens. The citizens know who they trust. Among other things, they believe, of course, Alexander Vukic and he has just shown that there are no undefeated fortresses and there are no unsecured problems, everything can be solved. But there are people who can't do it, there are people who can do it. At this moment, people who can do this are in power in Serbia, and thanks, among other things, to the votes of the Serbian citizens. The use of renewable resources will be made available to all. These are renewable sources for everyone. Anyone who has a flat roof, who has certain resources, has its own production, can create conditions to be a buyer or a power producer for their own purposes, and anything they can't use alone and produce will buy him a state. Is there anything more ideal? How many roofs in the Serbian state we could only produce solar energy in double the amount of electricity that it is currently produced by thermal power plants, of course, in an ideal case, if all roofs could be converted and covered by solar panels – 16 billion euros. Yes, you heard well, I will repeat again -- 16 billion euros, new plans, a new deal, a new future for Serbia's energy system, 16 billion euros for renewable sources. Among other things, 4.4 billion euros for solar energy. For all that seems to others an impossible mission, for this ministry, this government is simple and realistic. What Alexander Vukic has shown for all these years is that the plans and projects behind which the government, behind which the state stands, are projects based on real foundations. If someone said they would invest 16 billion euros in the energy sector, 16 billion euros would be invested. And whether someone will praise or not those who deal with politics, what I'm going to agree with these citizens today and what I'm going to agree to and my colleagues in that call the opposition bloc, because they're not even the opposition anymore, they don't know what they are, I'm not sure. Some of the members of that Gilas association, it is not rude to say – a thief's association, in the morning when they rise, they are not sure which party they are in. They probably have some system to ask in the morning – which party I'm in and on behalf of whose party I'm talking about? Because these people have no continuity, no support and no fair policy towards the citizens of Serbia. The new methodology provided for by this very law will clearly define what any individual, any company, STR, small, large, anyone who wants to be a participant in electricity production, has the right. The eight amendments that have been submitted, I will no longer appear under these amendments, have been accepted, and have only been tasked to further define some of the concerns that existed. And I'm sure, simply, it's natural, if in six months or a year, despite regulations and all that the Ministry does, there's a need, shows the market, shows it simply in action, when we come to the realization, it turns out that something needs to be changed, we'll change. Is this law perfect? He's the most perfect guy right now. In the production of electricity, in the construction of these facilities, it will show whether certain changes will be needed, but the essence is that the state guarantees precisely future, of course and present, producers of electricity from renewable sources, guaranteeing their safety, guaranteeing the safety of citizens that no one else will abuse the ministry, certain permits, or certain tariffs, that everything will simply be transparent and all in the interest of the green renewable and healthy environment. What I'm going to say for the end is, again, 16 billion euros for healthy, beautiful and green Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5583	Thank you. The MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic together submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk letter from Violeta Okokolić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5584	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear and esteemed fellow Members of the People's Parliament and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will certainly support this amendment and amendments submitted by colleagues Birmancevic and Matic, and I must briefly refer to this set of laws in the field of mining and energy as strategically important for our country. When the laws are so complex on the agenda, it is important that citizens know that all the necessary procedures have passed, that public debates have passed, that the opinions of experts have been respected, and that, before coming here on the agenda, there has been a public hearing with the MPs, and this is very important because of one broader involvement of the public in the regulation process, in order to remove any confusion or clarify the ambiguities, in the end, they have followed some concrete proposals, if there are, because ultimately, we are making all these regulations precisely because of our citizens. What is also good is that these laws are done in collaboration and in agreement with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, that they are not in mutual cohesion, on the contrary, to complement each other, which is extremely important in this way to access the creation of this set of laws. On this occasion, I will highlight only those positive effects, which concern the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, concerning each individual, each Kovinac, every Babanian, every Deliblacan, every citizen, practically this country. The law on the use of renewable energy means the possibility for households to produce electricity, to distribute all that excess power grids, to generate additional revenue, to potentially reduce the bill for electricity or to potentially store produced electricity for someone later use. When I heard the frantic data that as much as 40% of the heat and electricity is practically thrown out because of inadequate isolation, due to persistent facades, windows and doors, I believe that no country in the world, nor Serbia, can afford that luxury to be thrown away by energy, at a time when the energy trade is extremely, for a reason extremely, highly positioned in the world. I am therefore pleased that this law provides for the establishment of an energy efficiency fund, which, together with local self-government, will be financed by natural persons, but also by institutions, of course, for the replacement of permanent facades, for the replacement of windows and doors and for the setting up of isolation. I think it's very important to improve both energy efficiency and save energy, after all, which we can take out in the future. The additions to the Energy Act introduces the status of an energy-hazarded buyer, which is very important, especially for citizens of lower and medium incomes. So far, we've had this statute practically for citizens, and it's about electricity. This time, those who use the status of an energy-hazarded electricity buyer will be able to use both energy-hazarded buyer and heat-energy status. Given that in many local self-governments and many housing communities, heat is still calculated by squares rather than by the consumption of heat energy, it is very important that citizens will be extremely relevant to this contribution and reduction, given that the accounts of four, six, eight or 10,000 are extremely, extremely large expenditure on citizens of lower and medium purchasing power. When we talk about the new law, about the law on the use of renewable energy, I think that over the past few years we've realized how important it is, what potential we have to take advantage of renewable energy sources. Just one such example is on the territory of the municipality from which I come, on the territory of the Kovin municipality in the Attar of the village of Mramorak, where the largest wind farm in the Western Balkans was built, the largest of course, in both Serbia and 57 winds. A colleague mentioned, but what he may not have mentioned is that the capacity with these 57 wind turbines can supply a city the size of Novi Sad with total electricity. The fact is that on the territory of South Banat was built the largest solar field in Southeast Europe, "Banat San for". The fact is also that southern Banat is an exceptional energy potential, seven out of 10 wind parks are located right on the territory of South Banat, where the strongest wind strikes are. Therefore, I believe that there will be them in the future, along with, of course, all those studies on the impact assessment of environmental protection as it should be. Unfortunately, today every topic, especially the topic of environmentalism, is being misused for political purposes. What I read a few days ago in a daily list that I'm not going to advertise is that this is an ecological uprising, practically supporting no less than the Democratic Party. It is the same Democratic Party that has failed no less, no more than the one famous for the abuses of the Minister of Environment Oliver Dulic, and this same Oliver Dulic is surgical to this extent clears the Fund for the Protection of Life through that project – Let's clear Serbia and various projects together with his family so that we will practically have nothing left to enjoy in this clean and ecologically healthy environment. That's why I don't know where this support came from, or where the ecological uprising came from when we practically all the problems, organically solved a long time ago. Where good luck that the Democratic Party is no longer fully advertised, where it is fortunate that we don't have these accumulated, decades-old environmental problems and that we don't have to remove the garbage left in our amanet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5585	Thank you. To Article 58. The amendment, with correction, was brought together by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 87. The amendment was brought together by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade in Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 88. The amendment was brought together by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade in Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 89. The amendment was brought together by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade in Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Mikhailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5586	Dear Minister, in my opinion, the issue of ownership is basically all these problems. We have the Law on Public Property, and under that law, state property is regulated. I think we as a society, the state lacks a private property law. If we had many things in your area, we would be regulated or conditions would be created to be regulated and cleared. What is energy, mining today is not enough in GDP, not even that 5%, because this area where you are may be present in all four terms affecting GDP. Five percent, that's a little bit, but given the conditions and what you've found and what I'm reading and what everything's written and what's in reality, I'm not talking about gas right now, because if I start talking about gas right now, it hurts my head. Only these problems that are listed to be solved, I think that law is necessary. So, a private property law that recognizes and recognizes the Constitution. We don't have social property, the state property is regulated and we do it to create conditions to resolve it. What's the other problem? Those who are owners or users of natural goods and resources, what are their obligations to the state? That obligation is made up of compensation. That's not your problem, that's the Ministry of Finance's problem. How do those who use this wealth, which is huge, enormous, form these compensations? By keeping them in bookkeeping, through books, and then by doing what they keep accounting, they pay that obligation. You know it goes to the Republic, so the Republic returns it to local self-government and so on. Who's checking it out? Is that the amount? Nobody. So, one team must be formed in which, first of all, an expert in your field, a financial expert who will be able, now has the techniques to calculate exactly what amount, which is the volume, this mining wealth, the quarry and so on, is used, taken out and to what extent he should pay compensation to the state. The state gets a little bit, almost gets nothing. So that's the compensation. Then some people pay an ecological tax and it's symbolic. Then they pay property tax. Minister, they pay the property tax by registering it in their books and according to the book how they book it. So they do everything and then they give the state as much as they think they should. At all, I tell you, since I'm an older man, I know older times, I can't accept that fact at all that nobody checks it out, that whoever's bound to form his own obligation and pay, and that no one ever shows up. Well, he says, hey, give me the books, let's see what this is about. In the end, it must be resolved along with the Ministry of Finance. In the end, what I'm saying is, since I've seen here that there's going to be privatisation of this Resavica mine, since there's going to be privatisation and Petrochemy, which is good, so that's where you have to keep going. You've got big problems ahead of you. You have big problems and big obstacles and so on, but if you don't solve it, I have no reason and so on, to court but no one will solve it in due time if you, now that you've started, because you've identified the problems correctly, and the problems are huge, everyone gets, everyone's in good relationships, only the state loses. You are required, Madam Minister, to protect the state, and thus the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5587	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy to Article 108. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I would ask the proposing representative to declare himself on this amendment, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5588	Thank you. I accept, of course, that's what we accept. Only one small addition to something MP Jokic said, and in terms of the privatisation of Resavica, there is no discussion of any privatisation of Resavica. What we're talking about in the underground exploitation of coal is the fact that we need to find a way to find a way in addition to subsidies, which are almost 40m euros a year, how to ensure that in the years ahead to reduce coal production, how to ensure that these people have jobs. So, there was no moment when there was a story about the privatisation of Resavica, Petrochemia, yes, it was with the Ministry of Economy, but Resavica, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5589	Thank you. Therefore, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment to Article 108. Since we've completed the search on all amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the day of the vote. On the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mining and Geological Research, you received amendments submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic, as well as the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. People's MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic have written down the amendment to Article 2. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on all amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to come forward with this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5590	We accept the amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5591	On the 2nd amendment, MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, believes that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has a National MP, Mirela Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5592	The esteemed chairman, respected MPs, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, the improvement of energy efficiency is an important element of the energy policy of the Republic of Serbia, which will contribute to increasing standards, reducing import dependence and reducing the negative effects on the environment. In Serbia today, electricity is spent from three to five times more per unit of social product, compared to EU countries, and two to three times more than countries in the region. Also, due to poor isolation, we lose about 50% of the energy we spend, and at an annual level, we have about half a billion euros in losses due to energy inefficiency. The potential for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources is enormous because energy savings are being achieved, both on the manufacturer's side and on the consumer's side. By adopting the four laws in the field of energy and mining, new investments will be made, as well as Serbia's turning towards green economy and green energy. Also, these laws will open doors for large investors to work in Serbia, and citizens will also be producers of electricity, or citizens will be able to place solar panels on the roofs of their houses and residential communities, to do replacements, and to save energy, both heat and electricity. What is particularly important in these laws is their application at the level of citizens and at the level of households. Serbia today is strong and stable, economically and politically ready to invest in energy efficiency, to help its citizens to realise their projects, half of the money will be defined by state and local self-government units and the other half by citizens. Also, the state will help purchase solar panels to place citizens on the roofs of their houses and residential communities. Using renewable energy sources, the environment and air quality will improve, because we are aware that the environment, the value of the entire society and future generations. The Energy Efficiency Authority will be formed by June this year, so that citizens of the housing community can compete for money. I'm sure this kind of support will be of immeasurable importance to our citizens. In conversations with them, I noticed great interest in this kind of support. That SNS and President Aleksandar Vucic recognized the importance of energy efficiency, also said numerous projects implemented throughout Serbia at public facilities with the help of the state. For example, I will also list a few projects that have been implemented in the municipality of Lapovo, from which I come, which is a replacement of carpentry and a thermal insulation has been done on the municipality building. Also, there was a change in carpentry at elementary school, and the work of thermal insulation at school and sports hall is under way. Also, we've made ice lighting on the entire territory of our community. The animal's light bulbs, we replaced the ice with light, so today we have a five million dinar savings at our annual level. In addition to saving electricity, the quality of these lamps and the quality of the services we provide to our citizens is of great importance. It is also a good example of the town of Kragujevac, which has implemented a number of energy efficiency projects, from education, to the energy recovery of a large number of schools, kindergartens, to the introduction of software to monitor electricity consumption in public facilities. That these two laws, the laws in the field of energy efficiency and the law on renewable sources are important, are indicators of co-operation that the state partner to its citizens, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the support of President Aleksandr Vukic, who, by his work, brave and wise decisions, has created from the country which the former regime has completely demoted, a country leader in the region, a country that leads its policy, a country that monitors the interests of its citizens and thanks to this responsible policy, Serbia today is taking huge steps forward, both in the fields of energy, mining, and in the areas of health, infrastructure, agriculture, economy, because our strength and strength of our president are our citizens and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5593	Thank you. The Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5594	We accept the amendment, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5595	On the 8th amendment with the correction, MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic together submitted. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, believes that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 27th amendment with the correction, MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, believes that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 31st amendment with the correction, MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, believes that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic submitted. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have accepted the amendment with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with an amendment to the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy submitted the amendment to Article 37. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5596	We accept the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5597	Thank you. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Members of the 48th amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have accepted the amendment with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with an amendment to the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Vesna Nedović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5598	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellows, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the use of energy from these sources in the public interest is of particular importance for Serbia and as a long-term goal is (1) a long-term reduction in energy imports, 2) a reduction in the use of fossil fuels in order to protect the environment, 3) the creation of new jobs and the development of entrepreneurship in this area, 4) the promotion of research and innovation of competitiveness, 5) the digitisation of simplicity, economics and efficiency, 6) the integration of electricity from renewable sources into the electricity market, 7) the provision of stability of the electricity market, 8) the regional development of the use of renewable energy sources, 9) the stability of the system in encouraging the preparation of operational state aid in the form of market premiums, 10) the allocation of incentives in the form of actions and 11) sustainable and independent development, as well as the maximum use of renewable energy resources and renewable development. The aim of this bill is, above all, environmental protection, the fight against climate change, the reduction of costs for citizens, energy transition, as well as simplification and acceleration of procedures. This law creates a legal framework to encourage investment in this area, and three sectors are key - the energy sector, the heating and cooling sector and the transport sector. The energy development strategy envisions an increase in the use of renewable energy sources, as well as the desired changes by reducing the use of fossil fuels without negative effects. For the first time, households are introduced into an industry that can be producers and customers. They can also form a community of renewable energy sources, that applies, of course, to those who produce energy in this way. Citizens can use their produced energy for their own purposes, excesses can deliver a network or accumulate for later use such as setting solar panels on the roofs of objects. The novelty is also the Energy Efficiency Fund, which will have 16m euros at its disposal to increase the energy efficiency of households in Serbia. On average, 40% of electricity is thrown into Serbia due to poor isolation, poor doors, windows. This fund wants to set the heat costs down as a priority. The authorisation procedure has been digitized and thus has been accelerated and simplified. The law obliges all producers to comply with the rules of the water industry and the environment. Manufacturers of distributors as heat suppliers can acquire stimulating measures if they use heat pumps and renewable energy sources such as solar energy, geothermal, biomass. The paper is also the establishment of the Funding and Encouraging Energy Efficiency Board. It will assign incentives, prepare the project, keep a record of the debtors, monitor the billing and payment of fees, the obligation to place certifications in the building's energy properties, as well as control for heating and air conditioning. The funds will be available to citizens to improve the energy efficiency of housing for the purchase of energy-efficient devices as a special programme for the energy-hazarded population, such as, for example, the replacement of windows, doors and insulation on facades. Water and environmentalists in the protests around them had those who supported Serbia's bombing. Our rivers, our mountains, the fields of the impoverished uranium were bombed. Earth, air, water is poisoned and who knows how much they'll be poisoned. Before this pandemic occurred, Serbia had an epidemic of malignancies. Where was ecological patriotism then? All problems, such as air pollution, the creation of wild dumps, the lack of sewerage network, wastewater treatment have been present for decades and how has such gatherings not been organised so far? In 2009, then, Environment Minister Oliver Dulic launched the "Let's Clean Serbia" action. Marketing has been spent for two weeks over half a million euros, and what's been cleaned up we don't even know today. What it certainly is, Serbia's budget has been cleared. You mention Serbia that is divided. We want a non-dividing Serbia, which is returning to normal life, but you need to know that people of different ages die around you, who can't get to their doctors and control, and some of them would save their lives. Oncological patients are waiting for operations that have to be delayed, and the crown is spreading and taking a toll—some mother, some father, some son, some brother, some sister, infected by those who do not want to admit that the pandemic exists. Serbia struggles, will not kneel. By successful immunization, we will return to normal life. In Belgrade, 40% of full-age citizens have now been vaccinated, and over 50% of the population in the central part of Belgrade, the Old Town, the Sava Venc and Vracara. In the fight against Kovida-19, our country is in the leading places in Europe and in the world by the number of vaccines and revaccinated. According to the latest data, more than three million people have been vaccinated in Serbia with the Russian vaccine "Sputnik V", the Chinese "Sinefarm", as well as "Fajzer" and "AstraZeneka" vaccine. The city municipality of Zemun, from which I come, has formed its Cole Center to help its citizens who want to be vaccinated, as well as help with the implementation of their application to eGovernment. In addition to the home of health and the KBC polyclinic "Zemun", "Zemun", with the help of the Zemun Municipality, they formed mobile vaccination teams in Batajnica, Busia, Ugrinovci, Zemun Polje, Blue Horizon and Altini. The municipality of Zemun is following the situation with the coronary virus that poses a threat to both the health system and the economy and in this regard it wants to help businesses in our municipality's territory in the light of the ease of paying for public area employment. The owners of the place will be released from payments if not for the whole season, then at least for a part of the season. In the voting day, I will support the bill's proposal, as well as my parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic, for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5599	Thank you. The MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic submitted together to the 49th amendment, with a correction. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have accepted the amendment with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with an amendment to the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 53rd amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have accepted the amendment with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with an amendment to the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5600	Thank you. We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5601	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy to Article 63. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5602	We accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5603	Thank you. Let's move on. Members of the 63rd amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have accepted an amendment with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that the amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill. Amendment Proposer Boban Birmanevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5604	Honored chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected Deputy Prime Minister, respected Serbian citizens, very briefly. Mining as part of Serbia's history, but also part of the present and of course, Serbia's future is certainly for every respect and we simply through this law want to put order into some positions that were not covered by the previous law and that simply expected a response and reaction from the ministry, in this case from the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Using resources in the most efficient, but also the healthiest way in the environment and in the citizens of Serbia is not an easy task, but the task that needs to be fulfilled will be fulfilled if this law finds its application. Economic, social and, of course, environmental sustainability must be present. If possible, the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown and has shown Aleksandar Vukic all these years. And this particular security, the certainty that what this law guarantees to future investors and people who invest in this energy sector is simply necessary and simply exists. I think anyone seriously thinks they're investing in this sector simply knows that they have a serious talker and a serious guarantee from the state of Serbia, the ministry and, of course, the law. Everything that is done will be in accordance with this law, but also with the interests of the citizens. What is important, it is consistent with EU laws, but simply, that citizens know that in the focus of these laws, it is not the EU, of course, that what is necessary must be respected, but in the focus of all these laws are citizens, the future of Serbia, the future of green Serbia, and in line with that, support and this law and, of course, all that this law carries with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5605	Milletic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5606	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I think that today and in previous days we have said a lot of things about energy and everything that has happened around us. Now, when we're talking about this green energy, it's something that we're going to be working on and the government and we're all going to give support here to vote this all out, because this is necessary for all of us who live in any part of this country of Serbia. At least a little bigger problem will be in those environments that are slightly underdeveloped, which have problems with budgets, where local self-government should normally co-finance certain things together, certain projects, which we are now bringing here, specifically about the citizens of these local self-governments. I think we'll have a chance to work on that to secure the funds. When I talk about these small environments, I also talk about my community, where I come from, Srlig. The purpose is a municipality that has capacities related to solar panels, where we've had certain investors before, where we expect someone else to be there to invest in these solar panels, to provide that energy green, to work on wind generators and normally use water. But for all of us living in these small environments, it's energy, so-called. green energy through agriculture, through waste, where we need to use it much more, where we need to stimulate such environments more. I only know there in our neighborhood, right in Blatz, cow farm, milk and all that, where the energy comes from. I think that everything we do is very important, necessary to bring these laws about geological research, to mining, to what we're talking about now, and we all have to work on it, because it's been happening before, and now that individuals are doing, to dig up certain things, specifically quarrys, where I think it's necessary and about doing it, this law will cover it, where there's a need for all of this to be introduced into legal flows, where local self-government doesn't allow, because we don't have any impact on whether anyone's going to work, whether someone's going to open up a quarry, because all of these permits are obtained by the competent ministry, and all of this is what nature has given us, is all that we have to guard and all that's what can give the people to do that people and that people live in those areas better. All I'm saying is the need for all of us to work on, that our citizens can build solar panels, provide energy for themselves, save their budgets, and that they can eventually place it according to Elektro-distribution. I think all these laws that you have proposed, the distinguished professor, are laws that are very important to us, to all of us in the territory of all Serbia. I will all my heart support all these bill proposals as an MP and president of the USS, because in the previous period I have supported proposals that are important for all citizens, with a special emphasis on the southeast of Serbia, in small areas, because there is a much greater need to invest. But you understand that already. It's also done in these small environments. I expect that we will have the possibility that some of the subsidies granted by the Ministry or the Government will be increased by areas such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, and that we can provide better living conditions there. Thanks again. I'll vote for these proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5607	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. Fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Energy Efficientness and RACIONAL USE OF Energy You have received amendments submitted by Parliament Dr Boban Birmancevic and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy on the proposal of the Law. By written amendment, the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic withdrew to Articles 57, 72, 134 and 146. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Boban Birmančević, who proposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5608	The Honorable Chairman, respected vice presidents, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the Law on Energy Efficiency and rational use of energy is a law, I would say, first of all, dedicated to the citizens and the right opportunity for citizens to take advantage of everything this law really and fundamentally can provide. To begin with, mathematics is very simple. Out of 100% of the resources needed to be spent to isolate, the simplest thing is, a single apartment building, 50% needs to be provided by users, and 25% is by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, 25% by the city budget and the municipality. So 50%, half-and-a-half to say our people. I'm sure for these 50% citizens too, there will be a way to help them with banks and other sources of funding. Simply, within a very short time period, the feedback effect is multiple and, among other things, the longer term and reduced consumption of other resources, and just one reason why, with increased renewables and greater efficiency of electricity consumption and every other energy we get, we simply go in the direction of energy efficiency, but also strengthening our energy system. I won't answer again. All the amendments I have submitted to these laws are, of course, in the interest of clarifications and giving answers to questions that have been unclear to me. Thank you for accepting. What I want to end by telling everyone is that these laws are really the laws of the future of Serbia, laws that will guarantee Serbian citizens, but also investors and all those who think well of Serbia in the bright and green future, but that we would even talk about applying these laws, to use the benefits that will certainly be the product of everything we adopt tonight, and I hope that we will. "Unbelievable Tom" who simply invent and lie, first themselves, and also try to lie to others, but that's their problem. There is no truth in these lies, and there is no future, and in those lies they will remain where they are, and they are standing outside this congregation, and they will likely remain a very, very long period. Among other things, their problem is what they're going to do, but what I would ask all citizens to do, to make it clear, to know that they don't doubt this, that what this ministry's proposal and everything that is supported by President Alexander Vukic is simply based on real funding, is based on a real story and it simply has a future. All these people sitting in this room know that, but our citizens who listen and watch this transmission, too. That's what I'd end up with, with the full support of these laws. Betrayal is never an option. Please, I'm talking to the citizens, and I'm asking you to do all this, it's necessary that we defeat Kovid-19 first, to defeat this invisible enemy. Come on, people, let's vaccinate. It is a minimum of what we can all do and protect ourselves, our closest, our neighbors, our friends, our colleagues at work, to protect our fellow citizens, to help our cities, our municipalities, to help the state of Serbia and to simply defeat Kovid, to move on. The job has, the future is healthy, the future is green, the future is bright, but let's vaccinate and defeat this invisible enemy and move on. There's a lot of work to do. Which way we're going was headed by President Alexander Vukic. We're going that way and we've got light, I'm going to repeat once more, the light, the green and the successful future for the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5609	Thank you. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5610	We accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5611	Thank you. The Committee submitted to Article 57 of the amendment economics, regional development, trade, tourism and energy. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5612	We accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5613	Thank you. The Committee submitted to Article 72 of the amendment economics, regional development, trade, tourism and energy. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5614	We accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5615	Thank you. National MP Dr Boban Birmancevic submitted to the 79th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we are now discussing the proposal for a law on energy efficiency and rational energy use, I ask you that, if we can, we use the time rationally until the end of this discussion. So, I ask the other speakers to keep in mind that we are at the end of the debate and to be as brief as possible, if they can. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5616	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm really gonna be brief. First of all, I would like to welcome the Deputy Prime Minister and Resort Minister with my associates and other colleagues. In addition to these draft laws aimed at saving energy and thus reducing costs per the Republic of Serbia's budget and protecting the environment, I would like first of all to commend the government of Serbia's efforts, and in particular the vice-presidents of Ms. Mihajlovic, who, in a very short period of time, along with her colleagues, has proposed such a significant set of laws. Since it is a very sensitive area, on the one hand, we want to make savings in our system, in the budget, but on the other hand to respond to all EU needs ahead. I was already here at the tide about a month ago that I belonged to a generation that had attended primary school in the 1980s and that we were taught in the wrong way that Serbia was a rich country. Unfortunately, it's not like that. This has greatly affected our approach both in production and in electricity consumption. It is not really surprising that average energy consumption in Serbia is twice the average consumption in 35 OECD countries. Of course, these bill proposals should solve certain problems, but I would like to point to a positive example of the practice that should, in my opinion, be realised in our country's space, I spoke here in the plural, but since the vice president is here for the first time on this topic we're talking about, I want to mention again one project that is being developed in the area of the city of Sremska Mitrovica, the city from which I come, and it is a regional system, excuse me, a regional centre for sustainable development where the city of Sremska Mitrovica, along with the Regional Development Agency, has developed a unique concept. The centre would have more subcenters, and one of the subcenters would be an education-innovation centre for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. It would serve to train engineers, students, students, technologists, designers and have certain demonstration installations related to thermostallars, power plants, wind generators, water pumps and all that should exist in such a single system. Also, it is planned to build a logistics centre for biomass where biomass would be collected and briquettes and pellets produced from it. There's already a building permit for a center like this. The city of Sremska Mitrovica has defined its land and I really believe that the Republic of Serbia should invest significant funds in such a unique concept in our city's space. Why? We are in a position to attract foreign investors, donors, from our own resources to solve certain problems, but a centre like this would be a good base where science, professions would gather, where people would be able to make their proposals and opinions. In my view, it would be a good opportunity for donors in one place to convince themselves that certain energy and self-saving systems can function. This concept could indeed serve as a centre for the whole region and it would attract donors and certain people who would place their resources and thus show how we are as a state and as a society responsible. Of course, in voting day, I will support this proposal, or the proposals of all the laws. To be truly all aware that in the next two to three, five years, we can also talk about energy, energy efficiency, because we are aware that the EU is really looking for fast and effective changes for new technologies and that we are now giving a final court in the voting day and we confirm that it can also change in the years ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5617	A National MP, Dr Boban Birmancevic, submitted to the 88th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5618	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic. Dear Vice-President of the Government, Minister, honourable representatives of the Ministry, since the debate is nearing its end, allow me to make a brief summary and first thank you to the Vice-President and Minister for a constructive and quality debate on an extremely important set of legislative proposals. Of course we support this amendment, as well as the amendments submitted by our colleagues, submitted by the resolution committee. So it's a package of laws in the field of energy. The colleagues spoke in principle of discussion, these are first of all, the draft law amending the Energy Act, the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining and Geological Research Act, as well as two new laws, the proposal for a law on energy efficiency and rational use of energy and the proposal for a law on the use of renewable energy sources. It is precisely the importance of energy for the economy and the overall development of our society that we also require legislative mobility, i.e. the constant harmonisation of the legislative framework in the field of energy for a number of reasons, are the important solutions that we have proposed and discussed these days. First, it is our obligation as a candidate for EU membership, to bring our legislation into line with EU law, which pays great attention to the energy sector, both from the point of view of energy security and from the point of view of the impact of energy on the environment. Secondly, it is important to create legislative frameworks that involve the rational use of our energy resources, which requires the implementation of energy efficiency projects that reduce energy consumption. We know that our energy sector, or energy production rests on fossil fuels, primarily on coal, which is unfortunately a major emitter of carbon dioxide, but also on hydroenergy and other sources that need to be spent rationally with the introduction of new technologies that will reduce the negative impact of energy production on the environment and that is the process of decarbonisation. We know that the production of energy is especially from coal a large emitter of CO2 and other toxic gases that cause the greenhouse effect, or reduce the amount of oxygen needed for our planet's life. Two new laws mean Serbia's energy path towards, I would say, greater use of renewable energy sources that would replace some classic sources, primarily coal, mean rational and responsible use of energy potentials and mean primarily environmental protection as a necessary condition for further survival and sustainable development. In this way, this package of laws that we talked about in the previous days brings about our own, but also European energy targets such as minerals, coal, gas and oil, as classical energy, so Serbia is rich and renewable energy sources, starting with wind energy, solar energy, thermal water energy, and not talking about energy that can be produced by waste, the production of palettes. We should not forget the geothermal waters that go into our rivers today, and Serbia has spas with the hottest springs in Europe. We support these bill proposals. I would like to say once again at the very end, the SPS Group, of course, supports these legislative proposals, confident that legal solutions will allow us to use our resources in accordance with European standards, that at all costs we will not allow someone to exploit our ores without obligation to care for human health and the environment or to build hydropower plants in protected areas precisely because we and our successors would be provided with clean air, clean water, as sources of life. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5619	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 111 by the National MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted to Article 124 by the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5620	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5621	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 139 by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5622	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5623	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy to Article 153. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5624	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-20-0.u5625	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. I don't have any more logs on the list here. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure on Tuesday, 20 April 2021, starting at 18.30 p.m. as the day for voting on agendas of the eighth session of the First Regular National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and her associates for their valuable participation in our work. Thank you. Before we start voting, I would just like to point out that this week is the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, so I ask you to forgive the MPs, or members of the Parliamentary Assembly and their deputies, that is seven plus seven, for being engaged online almost all day here in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I would also like to remind you once again that I have scheduled for tomorrow, the ninth session of the First Regular Session, that tomorrow if you agree to this, since this is an emergency procedure, we will consider the Law amending the Budget Act, or the budget rebalancing, that on Thursday we will be doing a principle search on points 2 to 6 of the agenda, that means when we adopt as the First Point – Rebalancing, that next Tuesday we will be working from 7 to 13 of the agenda and on Wednesday these few agreements, as it would be appropriate for the budget rebalancing and the relevant laws that are important for several hot issues, the budget rebalancing and these five laws, where we will practically end the debate in general on Thursday, the vote would be on Thursday at the end of the working day. That means we start the session tomorrow, and we end it on Wednesday. For Thursday, April 29th, we will schedule the 10th session and at that session we will begin discussions on amendments to the Law on Culture and we will have the last Thursday of the month, as you know, parliamentary issues to the government of the Republic of Serbia, from 16 to 19 hours. According to the ministry, the working days are Friday, Monday and Tuesday, which means we continue those there on Wednesday, May 5th. Thank you. I think it's good to know our agenda for the next period. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the eighth session comes to an end, and nothing spectacular has happened. Before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that at this point in the hall, 188 MPs are present, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and REFERENCES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 191 for – 191. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendments of the MPs of the people Veroljub Matic and Dr Boban Birmancevic to the article. 4, 10, 21 with correction, 46, 59 with correction, 61, 91 and 95, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy to Article 62. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. The 95th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic, Snezana Paunovic, Ugljesa Markovic and Dijana Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 191, for – 25, against – one, did not vote – 165. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 191 for – 190, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Energy Act. Second item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE USE OF RESERVATION OF THE RESOURCES OF Energy. Before we move to a decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the article. 2, 4, 24, 58, 87, 88, 89 and 108. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the use of renewable energy in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote: total – 191, for – 190, he didn't vote - one. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on the use of renewable energy. Third item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on mining and geological research. Before moving to the vote, I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, and since the amendments submitted have become an integral part of the bill, the National Assembly will decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining and Geological Research Act, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 191 for – 189, not voting – two. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining and Geological Research Act. Fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Energy Efficiency and RATIONAL USE OF Energy. Before we move to a decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the article. 1, 3, 57, 72, 79, 88, 111, 124, 139, 159, 155, 163 and 166. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on energy efficiency and rational energy use, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 191 for – 191. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 15, the Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, exercise electoral authority. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 191 for – 189, not voting – two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the eighth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Thank you.
