ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 123 MPs attend the session. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 176 MPs present in the hall at this time, namely that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3102	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs, I will ask a question specifically about health care for health care issues in small areas. Finally, on 22 February, a public debate on the Master's Health Development Plan was concluded in the next 15 years, meaning 2020-2035, where the network optimization and health care facilities in the Republic of Serbia are planned. Master plan that includes improving and health care, improving and quality, improving everything that is necessary for our citizens to have better services and better conditions for health care and providing adequate surgical procedures at any time, ensuring safe life and safe treatment for every resident of our Serbia, wherever they live in Svrlig, the White Palanca, whether in Novi Pazar, Prepolje, Tutin, Kursumlia, anywhere. Under this Master plan, there was a public debate, as I said, until yesterday, where we also talked in Nis, where certain top experts, cardio surgeons, professors at the University of Nis, the Faculty of Medicine in Nis, made certain remarks, within which I will say only a few things about southeast Serbia, as regards Nis as the centre of southeast Serbia. We are witnessing that the newest Clinical Center has been done in Nis, the most modern, the most beautiful, the best, where the best experts, the best professors, medical staff work in it, and that's why I'm going to say this. As part of the Master Plan, which was planned in 2020-2035, we have, as far as these clinical centres are concerned, three or four categories. The fourth category of these clinical centres or peaks of knowledge and success and all that is most important for our country is the Clinical Centre of Serbia, is the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina and VMA in Belgrade. It's according to this master plan of knowledge, success, quality and all that needs to be best. I'm asking-- where's the Nis Clinical Center now? The Nis University Clinical Center, which we know is now the newest, most qualitative facility, that has really the highest quality experts in any part of the circle, whether it's cardiosurgery, cardiovascular surgery, whether it's anything about health care. My question is, as I said, why within the Master Plan, the Clinical Center Nis was not placed in the fourth group, where is the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, the Clinical Centre of Serbia and VMA? Most of all, in order to have the opportunity to be in those future institutions, which will be in the fourth group, there are plans to be the most modern appliances and to have the most difficult operations. Normally, the Clinical Center has every prerequisite to be in the fourth group and because it is the centre of southeastern Serbia and because from Nis to Belgrade it takes at least two, two and a half hours of driving now in these conditions, when it is a limited ride, because people from Srljjig, White Palanka, from the Shop, can easily get to Nis if there is a serious health problem, that they can get to Nis, to do this surgery, rather than go to Belgrade, because it is long there and will certainly be easier to save their lives when the Clinical Centre in Nis has the opportunity to get the same privileges, the same opportunities and the same obligations as the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina and VMA. I think it's also the right thing to do because a large number of our people from southeastern Serbia are solving their health problems at the Clinical Centre in Nis. We are witnessing that a really large number of experts are recognizable not only in Serbia, but also outside Serbia's borders, and they work in Nis, at the Clinical Centre in Nis. In particular, our professor, Dr Perišić, Director of the Clinical Centre in Nis, Prof. Dr. Dragan Milić, the cardio surgeon, who said certain things about this problem. Once again, my question is whether the Serbian Government, the Ministry of Health, will include the Nis Clinical Centre in the fourth group, where it will be the most modern and what is the top, as regards health care in Serbia? I think it is right and it is necessary to do so because of the citizens of Nis and the southeast of Serbia and because of Serbia's even development.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3103	Thank you. I was a little intolerant because you belonged to the so-called so-called. A minority parliamentary group. Anyway, five minutes, please hold on to that. The word has a national emissary, Selma Kučević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3104	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable President, therefore, we have recently been given the opportunity to hear much about the plan of optimising the network of health care institutions or what they call it – master plan of health. This plan aims to improve the quality, availability and efficiency of healthcare and is in line with the needs of citizens and the highest international standards. The plan provides for the abolition of secondary and polyclinical health care to the Tutin municipality's health. So, at the very beginning, we come to a contradiction. Isn't it absurd to talk about a document that needs to be in line with the highest international standards, and in fact, predicts the abolition and difficulty already being sufficiently difficult services and health care conditions. The Tutin municipality, as well as citizens of this municipality, has been significantly damaged for years in terms of the adoption of laws and documents concerning the abolition and removal of institutions and institutions. Also, there has been a lot of talk recently about the New Market Clinical Centre, even the finance minister, during the budget debate, convinced us that the project was actually foreseen by the budget. However, instead of a clinical centre in Novi Pazar, a health center was formed. Well, I wonder who's going to explain to the citizens of New Market now why they've been deceived months ago and why they're not a clinical but medical center? Also, when we talk about the Tutin municipality, it should also be mentioned that this is a municipality which therefore belongs to the largest municipalities of this country, undeveloped municipalities and numbers about 32,000 inhabitants. The diaspora of this municipality provided very significant resources and medical devices including CT scanners, the latest generations, as well as mobile and digital X-ray machines, then vehicles of emergency and ambulances, as well as funds for reconstruction of all health stations and hospitals in this city. So, the problems that we would have to face the citizens of this municipality, if there is an end to secondary and polyclinical health care, can indeed be immeasurable proportions and that is something that we as citizens of this municipality are going to fight the most violently. So all births would take place in Novi Pazar, which is an extremely big problem when we talk about patients coming from the field for reasons why due to the speed of birth they rarely even get to our maternity home. Now let me not mention this distance from Novi Pazar – Tutin, then the farthest village, the Tutin municipality to Novi Pazar. So we're talking about a number of about 80 kilometers in one direction only. Also, hospital treatment for children would be moved to Novi Pazar, as well as hospital treatment for intern patients. Also, the entire dental service would be moved to Novi Pazar for the reason that all of our dentists are specialists. The appointment of an examination by specialists at the health center is already one of the burning problems for reasons that have been waiting for them for months. The costs that this and this plan will require if adopted then best and not to speak, for the reason that I will awaken the anger and anger of the citizens of this municipality in the health system, in the state itself and the disappointment of making it more difficult for already bad conditions. I also have to mention that all relevant political entities operating in the territory of this municipality, as well as economic operators, have agreed and directed an initiative to obtain the status of the Tutin municipality health center. So as a municipality that is extremely dissociated and a municipality that has been recorded for years back by positive natural growth, the municipality that has all sorts of specializations also has a population that is even larger than what, for example, have some municipalities that have already obtained the status of a health center. So, while meeting these most important criteria, such as geographical, demographic, professional, then spatial capacities and the like, citizens of this municipality reject the argument that due to insufficient distance from the neighboring health center they cannot have a health center in their city and cannot be treated in their city. Therefore, I ask Mr. Loncar whether he will stop this wave of injustice which, in any event, punishes citizens of the Tutin municipality by abolishing and moving out institutions and institutions, as is the case in this case envisaged by the annexation of the neighbouring health center? Te, will he personally advocate that this home of health be granted the status of a health center? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3105	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3106	Thank you. Dear President, Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to ask the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. For years, namely, the city of Nis has been facing a solution to the problem of building an asylum or shelter for stray dogs to find an adequate solution in terms of their care. In the last few years, the number of stray dogs on the streets of the city has increased dramatically, and I am sure that the citizens of Nis would agree with me that the solution to this problem should be approached as soon as possible, i.e. that it should be given priority in the next period. In accordance with the 2009 Animal Welfare Act, the city of Nis has made a decision on the treatment of stray dogs and then entrusted the activities of catching, caring and keeping the "Median" JKP from Nis, and in this sense it may be necessary to consider that, in relation to the 2009 period, many circumstances have changed and that certain amendments and additions of the law should be made or a new law should be adopted which would in a more systematic manner regulate this area. By carrying out the performance of the general interest of the aforementioned municipal undertaking of reception, sterilize, chip and, after the treatment that cannot last for more than 30 days, return the dogs to the street. We now have a shelter in Nis that can accommodate up to 80 dogs, far below the need for a city the size of the city of Nis. In that sense, I must say that the city has launched a good initiative, that is to say that it has come up with a good idea and in this context, the Niš City Assembly has adopted changes to the plan of detailed regulation for the township of Palilula, which has decided that the space at the Niš Penitentiary Institute is actually adapted to building an asylum or shelter for stray dogs. The construction of asylum as part of a criminal correctional institution would mean that this creates a multiple general interest. On the one hand, that way, we would solve the long-standing problem that we have with stray dogs in the city, that is, with their care, and on the other hand, it would allow the persons who are convicted, who are in the penitentiary to actually be resoluted by taking care of them. I think this is an excellent idea, and it's up to us to realize this idea, to implement it. In that sense, I will remind you that the city of Nis together with the JKP "Media", as well as the Supreme Court and the Basic Court, signed a Mediation Agreement in all those cases where citizens are seeking compensation, i.e. compensation for dog bites, and only last year that amount of damage was over 10 million dinars. As I said, some of the first steps have already been launched and there is still a need to end the negotiations on the very definition of the Agreement between the City, the Ministry of Justice and the correctional office, as well as the public utility I was just talking about to define all the elements of the Asylum Construction Agreement as part of the Criminal and Correction Office. I refer my question to both the Ministry and, in terms of – how long did it take to define the elements of the Agreement itself? I think the citizens of Nis would be more than happy if this issue were resolved as soon as possible, because it is a decade-long problem that creates major problems in everyday functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3107	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3108	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, as far as we know today, will be held a session of the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee chaired by David McAllister. The session will discuss amendments to Mr Bilchik's report, and a session to decide on a full report will be held at the end of March. My question is to you, and I'll tell you for what reason. The question, in particular, is it possible that, after today's session, in some period of time, but it is important that it be before the start of the inter-party dialogue, because, as you yourself announced, in early March, we should start an inter-party dialogue, the initiator of which, among other things, the European Parliament and David McAllister, we get the proposal for Mr Bilchik's report with the amendments adopted? We know they're not binding on us. It is common for us to have a double practice and a double archinae, but we want to analyse this report and, based on this report, take certain views and relationships that we will have during the dialogue itself. We listen all the time, one part of the opposition has one platform, the other part of the opposition has another platform. Let us, too, want us within the parliamentary group to analyse what the European Parliamentarians are doing and to have our platform accordingly. If that's true, we don't want to inform ourselves about it through the media. But if what's true yesterday could be heard in the media, for us, Mr. President, there are a number of open issues. This is about two states when it comes to the Brussels Agreement. We do not know that the Brussels Agreement involves two states, but a normalisation of relations and a country that is internationally recognised. We're talking again about freedom of the media and the functioning campaign. About freedom of the media, freedom of expression, freedom of speech is a fundamental postulate of a democratic society as Serbia has been given. It is very interesting, we are talking about this with the European parliamentarians that by who knows which way they are talking about freedom of the media today, and they didn't remember that they were talking about it in 2011 when Verica Barac put together a report and a serious concern when it comes to freedom of the media. When it comes to the functional campaign, it's very interesting that they're talking about it today, and they haven't talked about it since 2012. It's about the election again. It's said that in the election year we couldn't pass election laws. Wait, are we suffering from amnesia, those of us who participated in interparty dialogue? European parliamentarians have initiated, together with the NGO, that I be corrected by participants in the inter-party dialogue, to change in particular in parliament in the election year four or five legislative proposals concerning electoral legislation. By reducing the censorship from 5% to 3%, we just wanted a representative sample of public opinion in parliament and to return the policy from the street to parliament. Speaking of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. President, democracy is being held in Serbia in the elections, and parliament is the voice of the people. We no longer allow, absolutely no one, to honor any political culture or that we do not know the term of political culture in parliament, because in this way they degrade and devaluate and the work of parliament, but also underestimate the citizens of Serbia. They say -- some kind of cosmetic change. We implemented everything contained in the European Commission report. They say the pressure on parliamentarians coming from opposition ranks. What kind of pressure do they mean? To the terror and tyranny that we suffered here in parliament, listening to it in their language? To insinuations? Pressure on the judiciary and false charges? Is that what they mean? The question arises for who knows which time, what would happen if representatives of the Serb list, whom I congratulate, won ten parliamentary mandates, speak in Pristina? Would it cause disdain and in what way would they respond to their speech? We haven't said anything at all at any time about any European Parliamentarian, nor did you, as Parliament Speaker, disqualify anyone from the talks, but we insisted only on one occasion, and this is an objective and impartial approach and that they are not placed on any side of the opposition. The question arises – who is the rapporteur for Serbia, Bilchik or Kramon, since some quote Mrs Kramon more? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3109	Thank you. You've been asking questions that I've been asked, which are more rhetorical questions that I really don't need to answer. In any case, we can consider this report when it is adopted here on the tide and, of course, our committees, I suppose it is the responsibility of the Committee on European Integration, but it is also possible that the Committee on Foreign Policy. Anyway, you wouldn't be talking about objectivity right now. The very fact that there are MPs out there who look forward to the release of something negative about Serbia, says how it relates to all of this and what double standards there are. Speaking of the international community's attention, I just want to remind myself that KIM has just finished the elections, as they say -- for the first time without international observers from the OSCE. That's considered by von Kramon for the image of democracy. That is why inter-party dialogue will be conducted on Serbia. It turns out that democracy has flourished in KiM in recent years, that no observers are needed. But when it is and is adopted in some form, as discussed in the Progress Report by the European Commission, we will also consider this act. Let's move on. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3110	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is known that in the 1980s and 1990s Holding the cable industry - Jagodina was one of the momentums of economic development not only of Jagodina and not only of Pomorava, but of one of the most significant economic entities in Serbia. At the end of the 1980s, nearly 10,000 workers worked in the early 1990s in the Holding cable industry. Of course, because of all the events in our country and the environment, the holding industry cable has fallen into economic problems and today in the cable industry has several hundred workers. As a representative group of JS, we were approached by workers, i.e. the Association of Shareholders Holding the cable industry – Jagodina, which numbers 2,500 members and this association has been trying in recent years and has addressed various institutions from the Business Court in Kragujevac, through the Ministry of Economy, to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to find a way to achieve rights acquired from employment, working in the Holding Industry of Cables in Jagodina. So as a People's MP from Jagodina, I would simply like to ask a question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to see which way it is, that is, the first question is which body, institution, is responsible for implementing the UPPR, i.e. the pre-prepared plan and privatisation programme of the cable industry – Jagodina, which was adopted three years ago? The second question is which body, the institution's cable companies – Jagodina should turn to protect their acquired rights on the basis of a working relationship in this once very important and important enterprise? On this occasion, I would just like to say that it is more than 2,500 people and that they are simply looking for an answer which is the way for them to exercise their acquired rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3111	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Djordje Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3112	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few parliamentary questions I would like to ask today. First, I refer to the DRI and it refers to the report on the final account of the municipality of Trstenik for 2014 and that is the report that this institution made up. According to the report, it is clear on page 31 that former President of the municipality of Trstenik, Miroslav Aleksic, has unlawfully increased the coefficient for the calculation and payment of salaries and thus provided himself with the title of Serbia's most paid president. On the other hand, the fact that he was not domestically related to the money of Triestenik citizens, he thus damaged the budget for millions of dinars and injured, or violated the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, Article 9 and the Budgetary System Act, Article 56. I ask the DRI if a complaint has been filed against Miroslav Aleksic, and if so, as far as we've come in this process? My second question concerns the malfeasance of this consecrated and recently convicted liar, Miroslav Aleksic, and when I say so, I appeal to the ruling of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, which reached the verdict of the official, public verdict that Miroslav Aleksic lied about everything he said about the Serbian president's brother. All you can remember is what a gruesome campaign is being led against Andre Vukic. The campaign of lies, the campaign of crime of the Vucic family by both Aleksic and Gilas media, all, and those printed and electronic. In a few months, for more than a year, they have crucified Andrej Vukic on this matter so that only today would we come to an official verdict and a final court epilogue that the skill of the phone found that neither Alexander nor Andrej Vukic had any contact with the suspects in the Jovanjic case. Not at all. It has long been clear to us both in this hall and in the citizens of Serbia that this is about one liar, now already a convicted liar, so it would be a little 1000 and one night to convince all the lies of Miroslav Aleksic. Therefore, when I talk about malfeasances, I ask the Prosecutor's Office – is it even if it is not when he will apply against Aleksic and his friend Predrag Stevanović with whom he joined the gasification business in the municipality of Trstenik through a set-up tender where he has provided him with a monopoly position, and the municipality of Trstenik put into debt for hundreds of millions of dinars? When I'm talking about this, I'm thinking about those eight public procurements that have never been called a tender. That's what the D.A. needs to pay attention to, and I can tell the citizens of Serbia that this wasn't enough of Triestenik to team up with his father-in-law to pull more than 55 million dinars through a family fund from the state register. I ask the Prosecutor's Office, this is question number two for the Prosecutor's Office – whether and if it did not initiate the procedure in this case, because this is an important issue, essential for Serbian citizens to know who is behind the malversions I was talking about and whether and how, in any way, Miroslav Aleksic, the former president of the municipality, made a fortune together by cooperating with Ljubish Knezevic, which, you know, was the father who pulled out of that family fund and placed himself as director of the National Employment Service in Tristenik, and this one helped him out of gratitude, so, to tear out the state register of over 55 million dinars, I repeat, in this fund called the Citizens' Resource Fund. This is what the D.A. needs to deal with, and I sincerely hope and deeply believe that in these cases we will get a court epilogue, as we do now, and he says that Miroslav Aleksic is an ordinary liar for everything he has said about Andrej Vukic and we will finally get, I hope, the verdict that Miroslav Aleksic is, that is what we all already know, the biggest thief of Rasin County who has arched the budget of the citizens of Tristenik, who has arched the budget of Serbian citizens from his personal account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3113	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, we're moving on. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of Parliament MP Ana Karadzic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the 3rd session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 239 Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been sent to you for an emergency session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, the following meeting was set up: The draft Act on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Origin of Property and Special Taxation; Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt on May, under the responsibility of the "Electro Network of Serbia" Belgrade (Regional Programme for Electronic Efficiency in the Transition System 2); Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between KfW, Frankfurt on Main, and the Republic of Serbia, which is the Minister of Finance, for the project "Energy Efficiency in Public Use Buildings and Renewable Energy Sources in the Remote Heating Sector - Greenning of the Public Sector"; Proposal for the Law on Educational, Cultural and Sports Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's Security and the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, Paragraph 2, 157, paragraphs 1 and 170, and in accordance with Article 157, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that one be carried out: a joint general and uniform search on the first three points of the agenda and under two: a joint single search on points 4, 5 and 6. Does Mr. Martinovic want a word? (No) I ask the MPs to plead, press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 186, for - 160, against - no one, abstention - one, voted 25. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend the meetings of Maja Popović, Justice Minister Siniša Mali, Finance Minister Saša Stevanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zoran Lakicevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, Jovan Ćosic, Assistant Minister of Justice Ana Tripovic, Director of Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance and Vladimir Vinš, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) and Article 150(1) and Article 157(2) respectively. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint, principled and uniform search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Origin of Property and Special Tax, the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt na Majna, under the responsibility of the “Electro Network of Serbia” Belgrade (Regional Programme for Electronic Efficiency in the Transit System 2) and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between KfW, Frankfurt, May and the Republic of Serbia, which is the Minister of Finance, for the project “Energy in Public Use Buildings and Renewable Energy Sources in the Remote Heating Sector – Greening of the Public Sector”. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the representative of the proposal for the first three agenda points will be Finance Minister Sinisha Mali. Given that Mr. Minister informed me yesterday that he has a very important meeting with the President of the Republic and that he will not be present until 12:00, I would like to inform you that we will continue our debate at 1200 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since I have already opened a joint, principled, single search on the proposal of these three laws, I would like to welcome the representatives of the motionors. I assume Minister Sinisha Mali will give an opening statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3115	Thank you very much. Dear Presidential National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, you today face amendments and additions to the Law establishing the origin of the property, which sets out certain provisions of the law. This law, by the way, is important for all of us, for all of Serbia's citizens. It increases the effectiveness of the fight against corruption, prevents tax evasion and illegal acquisition of property. In addition to this law today, you and two laws relating to the energy sector and increasing energy efficiency, two guarantees provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. One guarantee is aimed at "Electro Networks of Serbia" and increasing their efficiency and efficiency of the distribution network, and on the other hand we have a law that is related to guaranteeing and increasing energy efficiency for the Military Academy. An open-air military academy, if I'm not mistaken in 1981, and this money will be welcome to increase the energy efficiency of that building, to improve everything that needs to be built, so that the hospital remains proud of all Serbian citizens. When it comes to the Law establishing the origin of property, as you know, that law was passed on 29 February of last year, it enters into force on 12 March of this year, and it is therefore very important to adopt amendments to that law, which are primarily directed towards certain clarifications, the terms already in the existing law, in order to make it more effective and better to implement that law. One of the basic objectives of this law, as I said earlier, is to improve the efficiency of the tax system, prevent any form of abuse, refer to all persons and predict the possibility of examining the entire assets of natural persons. It refers to all citizens of Serbia, so that it excludes any selectivity in its application. Of course, on the impact of the adopted solutions, one will find the most disproportionate person between legal incomes and expenditure. In addition, taxation of persons whose origin cannot be proven to be legitimate incomes is at the same time one of the most important and strongest weapons in the fight against corruption. Of course, the law also contributes to the achievement of certain economic objectives. In fact, avoiding tax payments, tax evasion, also affects the reduction of public income, also affects the reduction of public revenues, but also poses a threat to fair competition. This is why the process of determining the origin of property and the specific tax is very important and contributes to improving the market economy of the Republic of Serbia. A special property sector has already been established under the Tax Administration to implement this law. He's currently counting 20 inspectors. These are the most experienced inspectors who have worked for many years in the IRS. The sector will have 60 inspectors when the law is in full application. These inspectors are currently passing various types of training, as you know, reforming the Tax Administration we are working together with the IMF and this is part of the overall strategy for improving the work of the Tax Administration and of course working to prevent corruption and improve the competition. As I said before, this law is exactly what it should contribute. Just in order to implement this law more effectively, certain provisions of the law were necessary to determine more precisely. I will give you two examples so that you, as well as the citizens of Serbia, will see what this is about. Therefore, these amendments to the law propose an amendment to the term – illegally acquired property, in – property on which a special tax is established, so that this term does not identify itself with the term – the property comes from a criminal offence. It is also proposed to add a term – expenditure for private needs of a natural person, who has been defined as - expenditures that a natural person had for private purposes, and to determine the origin of income obtained by a natural person and did not spend it on obtaining property. So it's two examples that give us sufficient indication or understanding for the sake of the check and in what way more precise individual provisions of this existing law are defined or amended so that on March 12th, when the formal application of this law starts, we can do more effectively and better. Otherwise, this law is the result of joint work by the Ministry of Justice, Finance and Tax Administration. Before you, honourable MPs, there are also ratifications of two laws – the proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW on the responsibility of the Electric Network of Serbia, the amount of the guarantee of 40m euros. This is a loan that is part of the regional energy efficiency programme in the transmission system and needs to provide us with national energy security and, of course, the replacement of the exhaust network. Otherwise, as you know, Serbia is accelerating economic development. You have an increasing number of new companies being founded, new companies operating in our country, and increasing electricity consumption is therefore necessary to ensure a continuous, stable and electro-transmission system. It is this loan that will contribute to further improvement of this system. Also, you have before you the Law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the German Development Bank for the project "Energy efficiency in public-purpose buildings and renewable energy sources in the district heating sector – Greening of the public sector". The value of this agreement is 50m euros and is currently related, as I said earlier, to improving the energy efficiency of VMA in Belgrade. This hospital opened in 1981 and is one of the largest hospitals in Europe. After four decades of work, and working day and night, 24 hours, it is necessary to replace the time-consuming carpentry and do whatever is necessary to improve the energy efficiency of this building and, ultimately, to make this hospital work in the right way. Dear MPs, these are the amendments and the laws that are here before you today. Since it is probably the most important of these three laws relating to the examination of the origin of the property, you have before you the changes that should be made to make this law more effective, more effective and more effective in applying this law on 12 March. The Minister of Justice and I remain at your disposal for any question you may have, and I hope that in the day of voting you will support the amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3116	Thank you. The Committee's rapporteur, Aleksandra Tomic, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3117	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow Members, we have discussed two agreements on the Committee concerning guarantees that Serbia together with KfW Bank is actually opening projects that are of paramount importance in terms of both energy efficiency and the application of renewable energy sources, but what is important is what this first agreement gives practical realization of this regional project. If you remember, we adopted this so-called "a few years ago." Transbalkan corridor. In fact, we are modernising our network in line with the requirements of modern-developed EU countries, and the entire Balkans should actually be networked in this way, by moving from a network of 220 kilovolts to a 400 kilovolt network. This section relating to Obrenovac-Bajina Basta is actually part of this project and this agreement that is the subject of the first agreement. It's interesting that in this part when we're in debt of 58.9 million, 12.8 million is free, from a fund relating to Balkan countries. This means we are in debt only for 40 million, and six million euros is actually the subject of participation of Serbia's electricity network itself. I think this is of great importance, that it is possible to withdraw to tranches and works by 2025, which is actually opening up opportunities for Serbia to become one of the leaders when it comes to electricity. When we talk about this second agreement, we had a chance to actually see that the Ministry of Finance is the driver of this big deal when it comes to the reconstruction of objects that are actually the subject of public buildings. By the way, we here in the Assembly said a few years ago that energy efficiency in public buildings, in construction, means the state institutions we want to make as smart buildings, that is to raise their energy efficiency levels, in fact one energy momentum. Why? Because if you charge 50m euros, 20% will return to the VAT budget immediately. The second part, which will relate to the investment itself, will be saved by electricity. In fact, you're generating financial resources that will actually go beyond these debts relating to these figures. Practically, in three years you have a repayment of the loan, from three to five years when it comes to the electricity bill, and those coming years you actually have direct revenues in the budget, or less paying costs for one VMA. VMA is a very important institution for us, it is a scientific and research institution, the university institution, always the best personnel in the institution. Now, when the crown time, when we simply worry about Serbia's citizens' health as a state, is the most important thing is that we raise that infrastructure when it comes to VMA. The indicator of this is that you are building a commission where the Ministry of Energy will actually be someone who will implement this loan, along with your unit of harmonisation of the projects of the Ministry of Finance, the Office of Public Investment and ultimately the Ministry of Defence. I think that will benefit both patients and doctors and students and teachers and members of the Serbian Army. In the end, I would say that we regret the proposal for a law on the origin of the property is not subject to and in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, because we believe that these changes that you have made are also part of the tax solutions. It's very good actually, and it should be said that people who deal directly with the economy and finance should also say in public what is actually the subject of this law and what are changes of crucial importance. It is to actually raise the threshold when it comes to general sensitivity to illegal wealth when it comes to all individuals. So they're all equally under the influence of the tax administration. On the other hand, it is not only the subject of a part relating to property and the acquisition of assets when it comes to the last three years and the value of more than 150,000 euros, but also the life of any individual who may be more expensive than the property itself, so that financial forensics should, in fact, lead to all of them living somewhere under the scope of research by the tax authorities, regardless of the work they do, the position they have in society and whether they can or can not simply show that they live one normal life. If it comes to someone having certain knowledge that they are spending more money than they should on certain illegal transactions, they have the right, after all, and the tax administration to point to a certain life of people who have proved in the past that they have acquired wealth through politics the most and simply mutilated the budget of the Republic of Serbia by 2012, so they have not succumbed to any legal solution so far. We are very pleased with the area of finance that we can talk about and that we can use these models to illuminate, after all, all the previous people who have used political functions for their own personal wealth. I thank you for your patience, Mr. President, for taking too much time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3118	Thank you. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, President Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3119	Thank you, Reverend President of the Assembly. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives discussed and found that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Origin of Property and the Special Tax meets the conditions to be found in the plenary, to say, is in accordance with the Constitution and the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia. The essence of the amendments and the addition of this law has also been heard by the minister, Mr. Cynthia Malloy. What I might point out, very briefly, is certainly an improvement in the efficiency of the tax system, an improvement in the market economy of the Republic of Serbia as a result of the application of this law. I believe that what is most important is that this law will apply to all citizens of Serbia, which will show again that there are no protections in the fight against corruption. We are left after the adoption to see what are the positive effects of its application, which we will certainly talk about today in the tide of what we expect from it, and we know that fighting corruption and crime is certainly a priority in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You, President of the Assembly, have so far noticed that in your reports as a reporter, I often take advantage of the opportunity to say something about some of the current topics that are important to the citizens of Serbia. That's why I want to leave space for new MPs in the tide to make use of their time to report. That's what I'm gonna do today. I would like to invite all citizens of Serbia to follow measures to persist in the fight against the crown of the virus and to preserve the health of the nation. So, today when we can say that we have a choice that we can receive from the vaccine, while other countries are crying for vaccines, today when we are the first in Europe to immunize the population, Nis is proud of this fight for human lives and proud of all doctors, nurses, technicians, non-medical staff, because they knowingly gave up normal life, their time and their knowledge devoted themselves to fighting the coronary virus. President Aleksandar Vucic presented the honours of which five went to Nis and I want to publicly and officially thank these people for fighting, but also for all their colleagues. Dr. Milorad Jerkan, Director of the House of Health Nis, Dr. Marko Nikolic from the Special Hospital "Niška Banja", Dr. Steve Stanisic from the Clinical Centre of Nis and the couple Zekić, Marija and Marko, who have applied for the red zone from the beginning, are still there, Marko in the House of Health, and Marija Zekić in the Clinical Centre Nis. I want to say that they are the first technician and nurse in Nis who have received a medal from the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and Nisli are proud of it. Don't mind me, I wanted to dedicate at least part of my address to these people, to thank them for their sacrifice, for all their denials. It's the least I think I can do from this place. In any case, we continue to fight for every life, with the struggle for the health of our nation, parallel to that and the struggle for developed Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3120	Thank you. We are now moving on to the presidents, the respective representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3121	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on the Identification of Origin of Assets and Additional Taxation is one of those laws that demonstrates the country's determination and determination to fully and fully and effectively deal with organised crime and corruption. Thus, it is one of the most sensitive laws I can say, which is not at all easy to adopt, develop, and even harder to apply effectively and to the end in principle. Therefore, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support the proposed legislative solutions, given that one of the key principles of our political programme is a decisive and uncompromising fight against organised crime and corruption, which is one of the points in the Agreement on Political and Programme Co-operation between the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the Serbian Progressive Party. However, self-sensitivity, as well as the importance of this law, raises the need to devote ourselves to it to the end, to the fullest and to the fullest extent possible, and in this debate. The issue of property security, as well as the question of the rights and opportunities of every citizen to have, in full capacity, the ability to acquire property, as well as to protect it from any form of endangerment, is one of the fundamental and very significant issues on which the development is based, the successful development of a society, and hence every individual in that society. So, on the one hand, we need to keep in mind how to enable every citizen and how to encourage him to do more work and be free to make as much legal money as possible, while on the other hand we need to limit all possible tendencies, as well as the possibility of making that profit being illegal, or illegal. As simple as that sounds, yes, it is not difficult to write any legal provision or regulation, but we must not ignore the environment we are in, a particular political ideological heritage that we are facing. You know that for more than four decades we've been taught, educated, raised in the ambience that he had, not to be too sharp, but certainly an unnatural and unbalanced relationship with assets where it's been promoted that it's good to be poor, that the best and most successful are those who are not successful, who are poor, and then as a result of such political ideology we get a kind of political and ethical hypocrisis, where we've actually had a phenomenon that unfortunately still exists today where the most important thing is to hide that property, to behave modestly in public, and that we can double-live life and enjoy this property beyond that public. Regardless, therefore, of what you are doing in life, but in particular this issue is also a challenging phenomenon for us political representatives of the people, or citizens. Why do I have to point this out? It is very important that the louder we encourage citizens to work and earn and we must free citizens of fear of being rich, clearly drawing a line between illegal and illegal and legal and legal wealth, on the other hand. I'm afraid that's where we haven't managed, that we haven't even managed to offer these three decades of a new variant that we've declared, we've also declared market economy and certain forms of liberalism, successful, unsuccessful, with all their advantages and anomalies, but we haven't been able to relax enough to citizens, especially people who are prominent in various functions, to be successful in economics, to be rich is not a shame, but being a thief and a criminal is a disgrace. So that's something I think it should, as it may not be implicated in the law, but that we should both be politicians and other socio-public positions to point out more significantly. Certainly, those citizens who want to make legal money, who want to be legally rich, will not be able to do so as long as criminals and various tycoons with their criminal and corruption powers are able to illegally and illegally increase their wealth on the backs of other citizens. I am pleased with the determination through this law, but also through certain actions that the competent authorities of this country, above all, the Ministry of Justice and other bodies, are carrying out in the charge of organised crime and all forms of this crime including violence and all that unfortunately continues to exist in our society and endangers the normal functioning of both society and family. This law will bring us one more step closer to the goal, I won't say a full crime charge, it's impossible and the world's most ordered countries have failed to fully deal with crime. There's no way to eliminate crime completely. So, as there is no possibility that you can completely banish the disease from individuals or communities, there is also no way to completely eliminate crime from one society. But our ambition and goal should be to get the crime under control, to get the crime back underground, to keep the crime under the shell. Crime is some kind of sewerage without which you can't, but it's no problem as long as it's in an installation designed for it underground, under the shaft. But the problem is when crime is pouring out of the shah and when crime comes out of the underworld, when it gets ambition to have its representatives in various structures of government, and as you can see these days and these months, as we witnessed 20 years ago, and more and less, therefore, unfortunately, that ambition and that tendency of crime always exists. In fact, the vitality of society and the vitality of the state as a roof representative of that society will be confirmed, i.e. to prove exactly that determination, that despite the sophisticated ability and power of this crime, which unfortunately is still not for underestimating, it succeeds in, not only functioning, but also making decisions, conclusions and laws and taking the necessary measures and through legislative activity but also through operational actions that, in fact, restores crime where it belongs. Of course it's the Property Act that's actually going to be a big test for us, because crime isn't just, fighting crime doesn't mean you have an army of criminals out there, you have an army of us, or the state, a state apparatus, and now we're running into different battles and we're fighting and who's going to win. No, if that were the case, it would be a lot simpler. Then the state would always, and it would just beat crime. But where's the problem? The problem is that these are the most often mixed armies, we don't have a front between, we don't have a clear draw, but the nature of crime is that it's always looking for its representatives, its representatives, its protectors in various parts of the state's apparatus and mechanisms. To the extent that the state manages to free itself and the reckoning, it releases those in its ranks and deals with them, then the front line will be clearer, and then the final blows to crime itself will be successful. So, we are passing a quality law that needs to be supported, we should vote, but certainly we will encounter new trials in terms of its implementation. We must be determined and courageous in this. Let's not be sure, all of us who are in political positions, we're all targets, we're all very interesting that certain criminals, especially those in silk gloves, those who are well packed are approaching us. Don't let us think that we're all immune. No one's immune, we'll always be their target and we'll have to be all the way careful about it. I can't talk about all the levels of the state but I can talk about the end and the institutions of the part of this country where I live, in Novi Pazar, in the Sandzak area. Obviously, we haven't been able to get rid of that, our criminals and your criminals yet. So we're all very brave to attack other people's criminals, criminals of those out there, close to someone, but very often the one next to us, the one close to us, we're not sure we'll see them. That is why, unfortunately, we have continued practice, especially in Novi Pazar where mechanisms, i.e. services primarily tax administrations, as well as other inspection services, are a means of accounting with those there, not only criminals, but unfortunately what is inadmissible and what is at the moment a call to the Ministry of Finance and other competent authorities to deal with it, to root out evil, to use tax administrations, inspection services, to intimidate businessmen through inspection pressures. It's in Novi Pazar and Tutin is still very present. I think we have to stand up to it, because if we have these selective approaches, if we have space and an atmosphere in which someone thinks it's right, even if it's local, it's not good because an ordinary citizen, he doesn't have the ability to have insight into the entire system of the state up to the very top and what the government is doing, what the central authorities are doing. Of course, they're also informed about it, but what it is is a citizen's experience is actually that first counter. As much as he's got his own store, as much as he's got his own craftsmanship, he's the state's inspector who's coming to him. If he's corrupt, if he's recalibrating him, if he selectively tours these shops and craftsmen, that poor man who barely survives and if he has that selectivity either on a political-party or on some other basis of corruption. We can't say we're satisfied, it's great, the state works. So those big results that are being realized at the government level in terms of combating the economic crisis, now caused by the peer, as well as all those measures that have given success in all processes in our economy. So they're dimming because we allow certain structures at local level to abuse their positions in this way and to deal with their opponents for personal, particular, party or other reasons. We will also provide support and agreements on two loans to be signed with the bank in Frankfurt, where one concerns the issue of energy, greening, public institutions but also Electrodivision. These are very important topics in the entire country, especially in the Sandzak area. We have talked about this before, and this is now looking forward to having more serious financial potential to realise such projects, i.e. objectives. The necessity to restore the power grid in the area of Novi Pazar, via Tutina, Sjenica, Prijepolje, Novi Varoshi to the Priboj itself is necessary. Among other things, to remind you and that is one of the important points of the political agreement that we have recently signed, which is very much looking forward to and with this agreement and this transfer will give us enough capacity to renovate both the low-voltage and high-voltage networks as soon as possible. I don't want to take too much time about it right now, but really last winter, the snows have shown we have problems with the quality of that network. The truth cannot allow individual local officials or anyone who is already responsible for certain preparations, especially for the arrival of the winter when it comes to the power grid, where we have an obligation to clean these corridors from the branches that actually threaten that network after snow falls. So we may sometimes have excuses that a bad power grid may overlap or justify and personal inactivity of individuals in that system, it is certainly necessary to investigate. In any case, we welcome this, we support it, and it is very important that there is strength and for such steps in this difficult time curve, simply, not to neglect any sector, whether it is an Electrodistribution network or this other project which also concerns new forms of energy and greening projects that certainly cannot have its opponents if we are well-intentioned. Just for a little while, I'll look back, given the currentity, the issue of public debate regarding the health care system. So we have to be careful. I remind you again of the agreement to set up a clinical hospital center in Novi Pazar. We heard a remark this morning about how someone lied to the people. No, no one lied to the people. This strategy, which was published and available through this public debate, referred to what was before. The agreement we signed a few days ago is a new Agreement and will certainly amend that part of the strategy relating to Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica, Prijepolje and Priboj, especially when it comes to Tutin and Sjenica, given the number of inhabitants. But more importantly, that's what I want to pay particular attention to, is space. So these are two of the most spatial municipalities in the area of Serbia's largest municipality. If you have from the village of Borostica to Tutina you need to come an hour and therefore you can not only take into account the distance from Tutina to Novi Pazar, not to speak of other parameters, but I believe there is a good basis that, in the meantime, together with the Ministry of Health, we will change this where the reality would be that both Tutin and Sjenica have their health centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3122	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3123	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, dear minister, distinguished ministers, guests, the chairman, there is a very important law ahead of us, probably looking forward to all citizens in Serbia, and believe me, the Sandzak citizens are also looking forward to such a law. We are very happy that one law will allow the property of all citizens who are suspicious, especially those who have performed public functions, politicians above all, because the most often happens is that those who are the deepest sinks in it talk about corruption. A report last year, or one survey conducted by CESID, with the help of USAID, shows that one of the biggest problems our citizens see in our country is corruption and this research that has been repeated for years has always been the same conclusion. The first three problems, which our citizens say, are corruption. Corruption really deeply devours every society in which it is widespread, and today it presents itself as a cancer of modern societies. Of course, as previous speakers have said, Western societies have not been spared. We also have information that in the developed democracies of Europe corruption is present, but at one level that is controlled and estimated that the EU budget is damaged by just one and more percent of GDP by just corrupt actions. So neither did they manage to fight this non-majority, but they manage to control it and keep it at a reasonable level that is bearable and which does not threaten, as the economy minister said, because corruption is the one that makes businesses, the real economy collapses deep down, cutting down the greenest branches. There's a phenomenon in the human organism. I mentioned it here. It's called an axono phenomenon. It's when a man eats something, accidentally swallows a sharp object, an organism in a digestive tract finds an opportunity to turn it around with that blunt side to pass and manage not to damage the bowel tract. That's something God gave. It's this law and just a lot of laws that we can call anti-corruption laws that make one natural phenomenon, that makes something in our society that can be marked as an axono phenomenon that corruption doesn't damage as much our organism and our economy as it did in the last few decades, I'll say, a few decades. Serbia has done a lot when we talk about legislation, and this assembly has passed a really large number of anti-corruption laws and I am proud of it. In our coalition, we really support in our heart all the laws that are anti-corruption and there are, above all, the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, the Code on Alerters, the Law on the Protection of Competition, the Law on Political Parties, the Law on the Organisation of the Authority's Jurisdiction in countering organised crime of terrorism and corruption, and so on. Indeed, this power and this coalition has done much since it took over, and it does much to fight this truly monster that has taken hold of our country. The state is this law that is before us today and whose changes today are ahead of us has received an effective mechanism that for everyone at all times can be determined whether or not they have been enriched illegally. Anyone who cannot prove that he has acquired property legally will be left without three quarters of his value and its value, and if the court finds that the property has been acquired by a criminal act, he will be taken away from the property as a whole. A special unit in the Tax Administration whose manager will be elected nine months after the entry into force of this law is tasked with cross-checking. The impact law will show those suspected to have a difference of 150,000 euros in assets from reported data in no more than three years. Of course, if the process in determining whether the person committed the crime, and I believe it will be a lot, then the IRS unit informs the police, the IRS and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We have taken over this American model that the burden of proving the increase in property will be on the IRS, while the burden of proving the origin of the property will be on the debtor. What's very important to us, the social democracy is that this law is tax law and applies to all citizens, so it's absolutely not going to be privileged, and that's something we're soul-supporting. I have to point out that somewhere since 2000, there's always been talk about the possibility and the desire to pass one of these laws. And twenty years ago, most politicians were saying that this law would be passed, but you believe that no one could get the strength and that this authority, with this government, had just done so, I think the previous government, since in 2020, had passed a law to pass one of these laws. There's been a lot of criticism. I am glad that the Ministry of Justice has maintained a very large number of public hearings and has included tax consultants and law professors from this area and indeed tried to find the best possible model. Certainly, the adoption of a new law is a very good model, that it is a model that sends a clear message that the state is ready to deal with crime and illegally acquired property. In the 2019 progress report on Serbia, the European Commission has indicated that corruption exists in many areas and that this is a question that should continue to be on our country's map. The Commission has stated that there should be strong political will, and what we are doing today is really showing that we have both will and desire and political courage to deal with every type of corruption and tax avoidance, which is very important to us. We had a problem that in the current legal solutions there was no obligation of state authorities if they had relevant information on the origin of the property to exchange them with each other in an efficient manner. There was a blockade, and the legal solution so far was a dead letter on paper. However, a new legal solution prescribes mandatory coordination and co-operation between institutions that may have relevant information to determine the real property of a person. I think that's the main problem that needs to be properly examined for the real assets of certain persons, because many who have acquired illegal property manage to hide that property in different ways and I'm glad that this law will try to deal with it as well. In the lands of the West, only two things are constant, which is that a man has to die and he has to pay taxes. So in the regulated states it is incomprehensible to avoid paying taxes. For a long time there was a rule of conduct to fool the state, not to pay property, not to pay taxes to acquire property, because the state is everyone's and nobody's. No, the state is protected by a very responsible relationship and tax pay, because we pay taxes and health care and quality education and good roads and we provide, we care for the socially vulnerable and I have to conclude that there is no reduction of any inequality that exists in society without taxes. Social democracy advocates a balance between the market and the state, individual and community. At the heart of social democracy, there is a compromise between accepting capitalism as a reliable mechanism for creating wealth and a desire to distribute it on the basis of moral rather than market values. The Imperative of Social Democracy are broad social benefits, financed by progressive taxation, but also by fair taxation. The reduction of the gap between the rich and the poor is our primary task. Of course, social democracy does not ask us to be equal in poverty. No, we need rich, successful people, people who honorably, thanks to their knowledge, thanks to their skills, will be able to acquire capital and move this society. Of course, we must also be in this country of socially responsible people. The last but not least important thing is the question of mentality. It is necessary to view corruption as a disease and to strengthen our state's organism for radical actions against corruption. If we eliminate cancer by surgical incision or cutting off, well, that has to be done with those who have gone deep into the pockets of all the citizens of our country. Those must be punished, but those who are responsible for the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia must also be rewarded. It is necessary to improve preventive measures and mechanisms to prevent corruption and cultivate new ethical norms from the earliest age. First of all, the introduction of anti-corruption topics into the education system of our schools, it already seems, and since the earliest classes, children have come to know different types of corruption, abuses and learn that it is something that is immoral, that it is something that is dishonest and that it is something that is punishable. Raising and constantly insisting on a decent attitude towards his country, fellow citizens, the mandatory paying of real taxes to his country, the necessity of academic integrity, solidarity and concern for the poor and weaker is the primary task of the Social Democrats and that direction I represent. Of course, it should be preceded by those who plead politics and public affairs, but in raising the reward always follows the penalty, so that those who trespass against the property of all of us must be sanctioned and therefore this law, which is beneficial and healing in front of us, and we will support it in a warm way.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3124	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3125	Honorable ladies and gentlemen, honourable ministers, Mr. President of the Assembly, the United Serbia will support this bill, but before I start talking about the law, I have one objection to the minister. Every week I have a meeting with a dozen businessmen, even though Sunday is vacation day. I called Minister Little, two, three times he hasn't answered. I called President Alexander Vukic, and after the second bell, he answered. I also called Minister Nedimovic. After the first bell, he answered. I'm not glad I'm working Sundays either. I'm sure you, Minister, have watched how much bitcoin he jumped. Somewhere in 47,000 is now the euro or 50 comas a little bit of thousands of dollars. If I report to each and every one of us MPs who voted for you, Minister, because we chose you, not you... Imagine, every day I get a call from a minimum of 30 people with unknown numbers and I answer. It's 50% of the Jagodinians and 50% of the other cities. It's our job. But I don't blame you because you're an expert when it comes to the area and the resort that you're in charge of, and I'm asking you next time, when they want to ask the businessmen... Imagine now that I said – come on, here, a phone from the minister or go to him to the Ministry and wait for him to receive you there, and we needed three information that did not last longer on a two-minute phone. That's what Dacic taught me. He doesn't talk for more than 35 seconds. I say - wait, brother, I have something else to tell you, he says - come on when I see you. It's not from a few days ago, it's always like that. And sometimes it gets worse than you, Minister, pick up after three hours and say, "Hey, you called me and I say, "I don't know why I called you," I forgot, but he's just saying, "I've been there with that and that and so on, so I tried to justify it with those businessmen." All these businessmen you know. One of them is Mickey Jela. You know who Mickey Jela is? They can't come to you and, well, they called me and held me there for two and a half hours of their own free will, of course. These people hire 2,100 workers, you know, ministers. When it comes to this law, the Unique Serbia will support this law, but this law should first start with politicians, that we show that this law is not made for someone there, but for us. Any politician who has a more expensive car of 40,000 euros and has no company, has no company, to examine the origin of the property, because if you are 32 years old, you can take a maximum loan of 33,000 euros. You know the same thing, Mr. Minister, and start from the politicians. It is the best indicator for Serbian citizens to see that politicians are the first to review the origins of their assets and have legally acquired the capital they have. Furthermore, we now have a large number of non-economics, and they have capital as if they had a company of 1,000 workers, to last 20 years. How are they gonna be checked if they're not taxpayers and I don't know what? With these new companies, Minister, there is something called - the owner of the company lends itself. It's right if those dividend money or something called profit, he's raised it and now he's not paying interest to the bank. That's the same thing, I can say, a hole in the law, where it's allowed, but therefore, there's a reasonable doubt, which would be right, is it, Minister, since I'm a semi-qualified lawyer, I'm not qualified, but I'm the best lawyer among the wrongdoers. I got that title at a couple of assemblies. What else is important, Mr. Minister? It is important that when it starts to apply this law, to get out the list, that Serbian citizens know who is the subject of the investigation and who is the subject of suspiciously earning his capital. I'm sure you were a businessman, that you and I were among the first. Here, I'm applying now, and you, and to see the citizens as we're an example to show where we come from, what we have. You're younger than me, but you're a very professional man. I've seen it many times outside of this congregation. You also had a company, etc. This will remove the suspicions of some to say – that is, they pass the law so that the law applies to us and our companies. When it comes to tax evasion, tax evasion does not require an asset origin law. That's what the Justice Minister needs to know. So we don't need the law. You can tell how to question yourself. If it's about the goods, there's something called fabrication, severances, invoices, etc. See if he paid his taxes, whether he paid his salary taxes, etc., whether he imported something into black and sold it without putting it in his books. When I'm at the black market, I'd like to ask you to amend and supplement the law where the stores are closed when someone doesn't issue a fiscal account, to increase the fine twice if necessary. You and I are businessmen, when you close something for 15 days, we destroy it. There's no pay money for workers, he loses what's called his consumers, and especially now at the time of the crown. So, let's pass a law that will punish him and let him work. Where does he pay the fine if he doesn't work? That law wasn't brought here, but some other, some other tall low-studgers, you know, sitting in a cabinet, and now they're thinking something, come on now we're going to pass this law, and this law about how it's going to apply to those called taxpayers, those who need to pay taxes to the state as well. I'm telling you this as an example. In every city today, you have an average of three to five closed catering shops and those who deal with fast food. So, three damages. And that fast food, where the citizens were shopping, and they were right, they don't include the measures that they have to close at eight o'clock in the evening. That's the most important thing for these little businessmen. They're usually family stores. To amend and supplement that law. What else is important? I know, I was small when it was still in time, and I'm not gonna tell Tito, and maybe it is, the questionable origin of the property. Then there were two men on impact in Jagodina. One, who had nothing to eat, and had a bar and I don't know what, and he's like, because he's full of coffee every day, he's got a lot of money, he's hiding, and that man's after that and he shuts down his coffee shop and doesn't work. I remembered that as a child. So, the subject matter of the investigation, this is a good suggestion that 150,000 euros, if it is three years from now, should it be the subject of the investigation. But if these are big companies that hire 100, 150, 200 workers, they have a big profit, they have something to justify, before they get control of that company, to ask that entity for information, where the money comes from, and how he raised that money. Because if you go in and say – financial inspection, an examination of the origin of the property, and someone has a market all over the world, it becomes a suspicious face with its customers and suppliers and runs out of work. So it's not just that. I heard that before the controls entered, those suspicious facts to be checked, that someone delivers whether to the Ministry of Finance or to the IRS, to deliver the suspicion that he was using something, to commit evasion or not to pay taxes or to sell something in black. When it comes to corruption, it has nothing to do with this law. So it has nothing to do with this law. Corruption is subject to another law. Right, Minister? I'm sorry to speak to you, but I have no one to talk to. Corruption can be checked every day. I'm against it to say – put the box in the hospital, the doctors and sisters are corrupt, as it used to be. Watch out for the rich, and we politicians are the most honest in the world. Well, they say corruption in education. What kind of corruption in education? Now who of the professors, teachers, is allowed to take someone 100, 200 euros for a child or give it to him? Now Mr. Secretary, who cares about the buttocks, hasn't heard anything, doesn't know what I asked him. Did you hear me or should I say it again? Never mind. I said we don't do what some used to do, so they take the box to the hospital so patients make remarks like hospitals corrupt and homes of health. Oh, no, they're all corrupt, we're the only politicians who are the most honest. Enlightenment too. Wait, well, I have five students, so nobody's ever asked them for anything, and I haven't been able to hear anyone asking for someone's parents lately – give me money to get your kid a positive grade, etc. Let's go to that big fish, let go of those whites. Do you know what whites are? It's those little Moravian ones. And big fish swallow little fish. Have you ever fished? Yes, it is. Well, then you know better than that. So you're a politician of general practice. He's stroking, he's gnawing, he's gnawing, he's gnawing, he's gnawing, he's gnawing, he's gnawing, he's gnawing, he's gnawing, he's gnawing, he's gnawing, he's gnawing, he's gnawing, he's I'm waiting for you to call me at night, you're gone, it doesn't matter. So, ladies and gentlemen, we in the J.S. support this law, but let's be an example, us being a mirror. That's what President Alexander Vukic said, and he also said he would ask him to start. Here, today I'm applying and the minister agrees, that we have control and that they're going to go see others. I'm sure you and I have some material evidence for everything we've accomplished in our lives. When it comes to this second law, the loan we're going to take from Frankfurt, right, I haven't even read the agenda, I'm talking from common sense, enough to hear just what it's all about. So it's a good thing we're taking a loan from the strongest economic state in Europe. They don't give any money if that someone doesn't have a bonus. What's a bonity? Liquidity, what was your final account last year and are you politically stable? It's a great success for our country that we've had a few loans and that money is being spent on purpose. A larger number of these pairs will come back. They'll come back, and they're investment rights. Today as a businessman, as a state, you have to take care of what money is invested in and what our priorities are. The state of Serbia has so far respected the priorities and what encouraged me was that they were selling cars, a huge number of cars, where every organization had by far not knowing how many cars and that they had gone where they needed them. Mr. Minister, the United Serbia will support this law. What else? To fight at the Crisis Headquarters not to change these measures so far, because if they do, we'll have a problem with how to charge the budget, and the republican budget and the budget of local self-government. So you have to work, you have to live with this evil that's called what's called. It means that it stays the same, and that the catering shops, the cafes, they extend their hours to 23 hours. Why is there a traffic jam in Belgrade in two joints? Because only those two work nights and 700 guests were in one place where the maximum working hours were 100. If we'd worked 10 cafes, 10 bars, there'd be no traffic at all. So sometimes a man has to have logic, along with his waist. Now, the easiest thing is -- let's close everything down, nobody works, and what if our chefs go to Europe, and there's salaries for good cooks from two to five thousand euros, if our waiters leave, who's going to work in Serbia tomorrow? There's no one. You don't learn that job in a week or 10 days. I also asked to be allowed at stadiums, too, and now someone might say it's not a topic, but it's all about this country's interest to have an audience come, because then why play football? How in Australia that had the most difficult measures, did you see how many audiences there were when he played the world's best tennis player in the finals, Novak Djokovic? They don't have any better immunity than we do. They don't even have garlic, they don't have sour cabbage, and we do. It's something that prevents and protects health immunity. It's all about finance, you know. When someone says, hey, let's just keep it healthy. Yeah, but no money. Nothing. We're not a sick nation. When we look at the statistics on how much he died, how sick he was, there's a very small difference between the number of deaths in 2020 and 2019. We need to protect economic interest, to be first in GDP, and not to think about whether it will be for pensions, etc., but that this government, along with my coalition, the SPS and the JS, is raising salaries, pensions, as we have done so far, and that we can boast about it wherever we stop. Only a very, economically stable state can, as my grandmother would say, take away from those who hate Serbia, think of several countries from Europe and the world, and have someone else smart us now, bring us in, sit down and say, sit down there some lady who has nothing to do with Serbia, she knows that some rights are not respected in Serbia. Let's see how they respect human rights in France. With a pendreka. How are they respected in some other countries, I don't want to list these countries, because I know those high-ranking officials in those countries? Pendreka. Here, maximum tolerance, can do whatever anyone wants, unless they're just physically going after some institutions like these. They say human rights are at risk. You're threatened by human rights, you can never enter with a motor saw in RTS again, you can never break signs on the roads to Belgrade, you can never break anything that the citizens of this country have ever done again. Those rights have been compromised and those rights will always be compromised. What are they looking for? The street can't take you to the Assembly, it can bring you to the census. To buy a picture of Vukic, you who did not pass the censorship, to put, he saved you, from 5% to 3% in the election year. Vukic broke the constitution, for some abroad who say – there, you see, there are poor electoral conditions, etc. If you can't make it by 3%, then what do you want? To attack me every day and threaten? You can't touch anyone's family. And in the criminal world, in Sicily, families didn't touch and attack.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3126	Mr. Markovic, I must remind you that time has passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3128	Thank you. The word has a People's MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3129	Wait, I want the minister to answer me. Minister, don't let me call you on the phone after, again. Answer me. I asked you five questions, please. This Parliament is for that. I'm not a statist here. I want to hear from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3130	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3131	Thank you very much. Dear Ambassador Palma, we haven't heard from each other in life and business co-operation, but it doesn't matter. To that comment that I didn't answer once, I really don't want to answer, so I don't want to talk about how many times I've answered and how we've handled things, mostly when you need something. At that level, I won't go down and let you be right. So, when it comes to this law, the priority of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia is the fight against corruption. This law will provide exactly that way in a way that makes it much more efficient, much faster, much better to help the tax administration implement that law. All citizens, no exceptions, you applied, and I applied for automation, so on that side, absolutely, when the law begins to apply since 12 March, we are all at the disposal of the tax administration, as we have for years back to all the competent authorities, who are competent to determine whether someone illegally acquired the property and in what way. When it comes to the law itself, I have to correct you, and I've just consulted with the minister about it, so it's not exactly like you said, but not to go into the details now. What is true is that the law applies to all natural persons and to all forms of ownership, whether they share it, whether it's cash, whether it's cars, whether it's yachts, ships, etc. It is also not the minimum amount of 150 000 euros, but the difference within three years, therefore, of a minimum of 150 000 euros between acquired assets and reported revenues. But anyway, that's the details. What is important to me for the citizens of Serbia is that they know that the tax administration, the Ministry of Finance, justice, the entire government, is absolutely ready to go into the application of this law on 12 March and this is the most efficient and powerful anti-corruption weapon and it is directed, as I said in my presentation, also to a fair competition, to know how business is done and how a regulated state works. It's about the comments you made that are about the economy. I don't think there's anything else to say. We are absolutely committed to helping anyone, anyone who has had a problem or has felt the negative effects of the pandemic of the coronary virus. We, as you know, went out with two aid packages last year. We also announced a new aid package now since April, the third aid package, worth two billion euros. Again, for all citizens of Serbia, and also for not only all businesses, including large enterprises that will receive three times 50% minimum earnings, we also included sectoral support and tourism, and city hotels and car carriers. So all those we consider to be the most negative effects of the virus's corona, i.e. pandemic, Kovid-19 suffered during the previous period. Nevertheless, the state has shown its responsibility, to lead a responsible economic policy for all citizens of Serbia, for you honourable MPs, in no way have we compromised our macroeconomic stability. Our share of public debt in GDP at the end of last year was 57.8%. So below 60% of GDP, which is some level of the Mastricht. You remember a large number of comments from various experts that said that this aid in many ways would disrupt our macroeconomic balance. So that didn't happen. This year we have the goal of growing our economy 6%. In January, we have a much better score than we expected, which I shared with the citizens of Serbia. So instead of the deficit of 13.3 billion dinars, we have a surplus of 13.4. So a better score for almost 27 billion dinars. That encourages, that's good. We, and when we adopted the budget here in front of you, at the end of last year we said that we would and we made the budget so it could be conservative, but here, what encourages is much better tax collection, much greater economic activity in January of the month. What is particularly important is that this process of mass vaccination, the acquisition of vaccines that it is carrying out and which is ultimately organised by President Vukic and Prime Minister, the entire government, all the competent institutions, we are the first in Europe by number of vaccines compared to millions of people. It's for the economy, maybe the most important news. So, not only about health, it solves the problem of Kovida-19, but about the economy. The sooner we finish the relapsing, the easier it'll be to open up our economy. I agree here with you, Mr. Plam, it is not necessary to extend, or to sharpen epidemiological measures. I hope that'll be the attitude of the Crisis Staff. After all, human health is still the most important thing. At this time of crisis, the state has shown that it can and can and wants to take on the greater burden of the crisis on itself. Let the people who do this remain, whether or not they will sharpen the measures. I can only appeal to all citizens of Serbia, so respect the measures. In my opinion, it's not a question of whether restaurants work until eight, half nine or six, so it's not a matter of working hours, it's a matter of respect for epidemiological measures. This is my appeal to all citizens of Serbia that, with the mass vaccination currently being carried out, they adhere to these measures, for their health, for the health of their loved ones, for all of us to get out of this pandemic in the shortest time period and start to think about those high growth rates we expect this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3132	Thank you. MP Gjorge Milicevic. (Dragan Markovic: Replica. I'm sorry. Since Dragan Markovic was looking for a replica, I didn't see it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3133	Mr. Minister, we're on a joint mission and I can't argue with anything you said and maybe you didn't understand me, but we in this House don't have to think the same thing. It's about how to get to the goal and how to succeed. These are some of my remarks and sightings from my corner, because I live in the interior of Serbia and every word and sentence in critical terms is a positive criticism. I carry what people are looking for and beg me to say. I'd just like to ask you more, if you can, to comment when it comes to the owners of these shops and when someone doesn't issue a fiscal account, the store closes for 15 days, can you increase the sentence of hell and not close the store, especially in the time of the epidemic that will last who knows how long? That's what I'd like to ask you, and we're all on the same assignment. I especially appreciate your expertise, and by saying that you and I are an example, I think it is positive for both the government and the state of the Republic of Serbia, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3134	Thank you. The word is Minister Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3135	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Palma, my position on the fight against the gray economy is very clear. In some ways, at some point I might agree with you when it comes to closing those facilities, but if I'm not mistaken, closing is the last measure. We all want to have enough money in the country to help our oldest citizens, to increase pensions, buy vaccines, buy medical equipment, improve hospital work, invest in building new hospitals, build new highways. I, Mr. Palma, must appeal to all citizens. So it's not a question of whether someone's going to close or not, but why didn't you issue a fiscal account? Is that so hard? Why didn't you follow the law in your country that you expect from both arranged sidewalks and parks and new streets, medicines, vaccinations and everything else? So it depends on that person who does it. What is important is for the tax administration to carry out its work and its powers defined by law. I have to say it. Here, we now have an example of this award game "Take the Account and Win". So, I'm talking to winners who take fiscal bills every day. So, we have developed a huge awareness among Serbian citizens that really these fiscal accounts should be taken, because at the end of the day, the greatest benefit is given to those who have not issued the bill. So, introducing order by me is what's very important to us. Everyone is responsible, Mr. Palma, for themselves. So he's responsible for his actions. I would only ask, and if we hadn't forgotten yet, we, or you, have passed the Fiscalization Act at the end of last year. The fiscalisation law is moving, a new law to be applied from January 1st. So everyone's going to have the fiscalization devices that are in the so-called. "real time", "real time", related to the tax administration. So it will be very difficult for anyone not to issue a fiscal account, because the system itself will recognize it. It's impossible there's no traffic on Saturday morning or a coffee shop on Friday night that there's no traffic. It will make it much easier for the tax administration to work. So, are we going to an orderly state or not? Are we all gonna follow the laws or not? I think we will. I think all Serbian citizens benefit from new highways, security when it comes to traffic, drugs, the fights we showed when it comes to Kovid 19. For all of you to know, every vaccine has been paid in advance and every vaccine has been paid in a day. We have some income to make that happen. So that's how we behave responsibly, we take care of every single one of our dinars. We're helping the economy. So it's not like the state didn't prove responsible when it comes to the crown. Three aid packages, eight billion euros. Well, we've helped everyone who needs that help. What we're asking is to respect the laws, respect that order when it comes to a fiscal account. Dear Mr. Palma, I can't at this point be confirmed or negative as per your proposal. What I expect and say is, it's the last measure, the closing measure, but whether something is going to close or not depends solely on the owner of the facility and the one who has decided to issue or not to issue a fiscal account. If he wants to play with the state, he's playing. Sometimes someone goes through it, someone doesn't pass, but he's just aware of the risk he's taking with his decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3136	Thank you. Dragan Markovic called about the replica. I'd just like to ask you, we're closing the circle, because the day after tomorrow we have a session where the government will be asked questions, so we'll get on with it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3137	Mr. Minister, I didn't think there was any charge and that no store would be closed, now that he doesn't issue a fiscal account of an entity called the owner of that facility, he pays 80,000 dinars and closes for 15 days, not to close it, but to beat it, 300,000. Do you understand? So four times as much to pay financially without closing the store. We'll get more money that way and those workers who work there will get paid. It's just that I thought someone was getting rid of him and being tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3138	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. (Milos Bandur: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.) That's fine, but you didn't sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3139	I want to point out, Article 103, on the violation of the Rules of Procedure we're working on. I tried to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure after Mr Markovic's first appearance and you were obliged to give me the word immediately, however, you looked at me and continued, although the light was turned on, or signalled. What does the breach of the Rules of Procedure consist of? Of course, the breach of the Rules of Procedure always makes it the chairman, because it does not respond in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. First, Article 106 – The speaker can only talk about the agenda point. Here we heard again about the crown, about the games, about the audience's presence at the games, etc. I don't think that's the subject of the agenda. Article 107(1) – The speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. It seems to me that the way Mr. Markovic discusses is sometimes very fun and pleasant, but I don't think it's always in line with the dignity of the National Assembly. I would especially point to the calling of us friendly countries, such as France and the use of the term French democracy or French human freedom with a pendreka. I don't think one such address in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is appropriate and is not an appropriate attitude towards a country that is very friendly to us and in a correct relationship with Serbia. Item 2 Members 107 – Direct address is not allowed...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3140	That's right, and since it's been two minutes, you're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3141	Let me tell you something else. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3142	You're done, since you're asking me to respect the Rules of Procedure. Two minutes to breach the Rules of Procedure have expired. Thank you. Also, I warned you last time to stick to your agenda. Thank you. (Milos Bandur: Well, now I have you, that you stick to the agenda.) You do not have the right to replicate, if you wish to replicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you want to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's another question now. What I'm trying to say is, if you want, we can make this clear in the voting day. And what do you want, Mr. Markovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3143	I'm advertising an article. 107th and 108th. So it's my right as an MP to speak, I don't insult anyone, and no one can forbid me or any other MP when he's making a parallel with another state. The other state beat its people in yellow vests, and I compared it to Serbia, which did not beat those who had credit for it. Furthermore, if we are to say – you know what, it is not the agenda, you sir know very well what is said in this House and for me everything is the agenda, if it does not offend anyone and if that comment or questions can bring benefit to anyone. I don't mind when you discuss and talk whatever you want, it's your right and I'll never tell you or anyone that you don't talk on the agenda. No one can ever forbid me in Parliament what I'm going to say, because I'm cultural, I don't insult anyone, I have experience and all I'm saying is out of my life and I'm not saying anything in my head. Please, let's be collegiate. You know, in this congregation, someone has to think differently. I said earlier that our goal is the same, together, to help every man in Serbia and those who insult us MPs and not in parliament, to return them in a cultural way, also verbally. So I'm asking you to respect each other in the future and not report to the Rules of Procedure, as if I didn't know what I was saying and that what I said would bother someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3144	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Whoever isn't happy with my explanations can ask for a vote in the voting day. I don't think there's any need for any anxiety. We're moving on with our work. Whoever thinks and what he will say will speak until I give him a reminder or a measure, according to the Rules of Procedure and according to the Codex which we have adopted. When it comes to this law, I don't think there's any easier law to apply than this. Why? Because there is no Serb or Bosniak or Albanian, however, about Montenegrins not to speak, who will gain wealth, money, power without being seen. Everyone who gets something wants to be seen, and it's up to you to transfer what everyone sees to punishment, to punish them, and to arrest them. I think that's why it's the easiest thing to do, and that's why it doesn't get nervous. It's important that this law is applied. Nervousness should be with those who have reason to be afraid of it. I didn't say we were planning on working for three days today. I didn't say that this morning because the minister came later. Today we're working on the first three points of the agenda, tomorrow on the agenda points 4, 5 and 6. On Thursday, we do point 7 and debate in particular when it comes to this one amendment to the bill. After that, it is the last Thursday of the month, where the Serbian government will arrive, where questions will be asked from 16:00 to 19.00pm and after that will be a day to vote. So we move on. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3145	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, Mrs Popovic, Mr Mali and the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Mrs Popovic, I hope you will not mind, but before I move on to what is the subject of today's assembly session and an important legislative proposal, you will allow me to use the presence of the finance minister, because it is perfectly logical, this law is related to the Ministry of Justice, because for the first time we are establishing an institute and establishing an institution of origin of property in Serbia's legal system. It is also important for the tax procedure and it was logical for the finance minister to be present. I hope that neither my colleagues nor you, nor the chairman, will give me a warning and will not mind, if, in this opening presentation, I first congratulate the Minister of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a continuously responsible and serious relationship with the citizens of Serbia, on the economy in the period of the pandemic caused by Kovid – 19. I mean the third package of measures announced and directed towards citizens, which is directed towards the economy, which is aimed at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but this time also at large companies. So far, I will remind you, Serbia has singled out 700 billion dinars, which is six billion euros or 12.7% of GDP. I don't know if there's a country in the world that's accepted a greater burden of crisis on itself. We managed to avoid that blackest scenario, we have the highest rate of economic growth, i.e. the rate of decline, and I think the measures are directed in the best possible direction, which is to preserve the level of employment in Serbia, the standard of living of citizens, the existence of citizens, but also to help the economy, the private sector, as I said, micro, small, medium-sized enterprises with this third package and large enterprises. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia continues to run an economically responsible policy in which it is primarily human, but at whose centre it is and the economy, because the state also lives on business and the state lives on taxes and taxes it collects from the private sector. I wanted to take advantage of, ministers, your presence and say that in 2021, Serbia entered a strong and economically stable and with full confidence that it would realise how some defined, unrealistic and high GDP growth rate of 6%. And no matter what the critics say, but Serbia has managed to raise salaries and pensions, wages in the public sector, to raise 100 euros for every full-time citizen in the past period. Although we are criticised by what we say is professional circles, independent regulatory bodies that are used to sitting in comfortable chairs and dealing with analyses, have managed to single out, first of all, four thousand and five thousand dinars for pensioners, 10,000 for healthcare workers, and this new package of measures, the third package of measures that I praise and consider responsible relations, namely for one million and a half entrepreneurs, refers to the money aid of 250 billion dinars for citizens, refers to pensioners, with 60 additional 50 euros, 1.7m euros in pensioners, refers to city hotels, refers to the passenger sector, road traffic, bus stations, which we believe is of great importance and importance. All of this, Ministers, correct me if I'm wrong, has been praised by the IMF, has been praised by the World Bank. I simply stress this not to be, when we spoke of those, if you remember 100 euros to full-time citizens, so when we talked to Mr Petrovic, who insisted that the European Bank, the Investment Bank and the International Labour Organisation did not commend that measure and did not indicate that the measure was leading to poverty. We've made it clear to him -- well, definitely, according to your findings, you're against poverty. To sum up, this narrow professional policy is not a magic wand and they don't understand what it is to be a living policy. I asked them only one specific question and I end up with this opening part -- Mr Petrovic, how did your employees who made up this report that we talked about, when they took those 100 euros as full-time citizens? So you failed to convince your employees that it was not good measures, and you want to convince the citizens of Serbia. There's also that part of the critics, and now I'm going back to the legal proposal, and I'm sorry that I took a brief look. There are critics who represent that part of the elite opposition for which is small and 60, and 50, and 100 euros. They're probably used to significantly larger numbers. The law we're talking about today is very clear. You can't prove the origin of the property, you have to answer criminally, but there are also those who have not acquired the origin of the property in an illegal and illegal manner and cannot prove its origin. You have to pay taxes, a special form of tax. It's a good thing it's a high tax rate, because it will interfere with those who did it to obtain what is necessary to prove the origin of the property. I think the legislative proposal that we are talking about today is actually another confirmation of political will, especially stressing political will, because in the European Commission's report, we very often hear that there is no political will of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I reiterate, a clear confirmation of the political will of the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue one effective, determined, continuous and non-selective fight against corruption. It is very important for Serbia, it is very important for Serbian citizens what the government is doing, and this is the first goal of zero tolerance when we talk about corruption on the one hand, and on the other hand, I would say, by synergy practically and normably, the fight against corruption continues. The legislative proposal, as said in the opening statement, was adopted at the end of February last year and was left for about a year. Its application begins on March 12th, but it was left a year to adapt institutions, to carry out those necessary trainings, to do certain sublegal acts, because we are talking about a new tax model, a new category of taxpayers, and that was totally logical. On the other hand, you know, when we listen to these critics who say this law represents a place to be prosecuted by political insolents. It's political populism that should lead to cheap political points and it's political marketing. It's kind of understandable, but it's not about selective targets. There are no selective targets here if the President of the Republic says he wants to be the first subject of the check, Mr. Markovic spoke a little bit, each of us says he wants to be the subject of a check, so why the fear of those who criticise such a legal proposal unless there's something we don't know, something that's hidden. What is it that bothers them? They are disturbed by a regulated and legal state in which the institutions of the system will function? What is it that bothers them? Which no one is above the law and no one, but absolutely no one is stronger than the state and that will finally be demystified and nakeded by that hate policy that has tried to fabricate alleged affairs all the time to make political points. Now, to all of this we will finally institutionally through this legal proposal, hopefully, put an end to it. Otherwise, the amendments and additions to the laws that we are talking about today, first of all, are seen as a clearer definition of certain provisions due to the shortcomings observed during the production of sublegal acts, so that this law is applicable from 12 March and for the sake of respect for the legal certainty of citizens and equality of all before the law. The substance of the amendment proposed is, for example, the replacement of the term “illegal property acquired” in the term “equity to which a special tax is established”. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group thus considers that wrong interpretation is eliminated and specifies the qualification of the property of a natural person who does not need apriori to be accepted as property acquired illegally, nor from any criminal act, but certainly that the origin of this property must and should be established. Therefore, this law has just established more efficient mechanisms to determine the origin of the property and thus to charge a special tax on that property. I would refer to the importance of this legislative proposal because, as I said about the opening statement, we have here a determination and was established for the first time in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia for the establishment of the origin of property and the obligation to pay a special tax. As a Parliament club that advocates, above all, ideologically for social justice, for social justice, for the life of our work, we particularly think it is important to determine the origins of everyone's property and we have absolutely no problem, let it start with politicians. The critics said, "Why is there no such thing as the 1990s?" We're not afraid in the '90s if that's possible. Let the origin of the property and the 1990s be examined, we absolutely don't mind. Of course, this issue has been raised many times in Serbia, and it has been particularly set since 2000, in a period of transition, when we had very few rich and many poor and when we had people who had disproportionate property of their economic and social status. Of course, citizens with full right asked the question of where, how, in what way. We don't want to judge anyone in advance, we don't want anyone in advance to be accused, but for every regulated and legal democratic state, it's very important to know the origin of any and any property and to pay taxes on that property. This achieves the equality of all before the law. On the other hand, we believe that special units in the IRS, which have had a year to train, will show their readiness and ability to apply this law. There was a question from a number of critics, is that a sufficient number? Well, I think that number is defined according to European models. But unless it's enough, there's always a chance that the number of people who are going to work on this job will increase. Officials shall also be subject to one of the amendments to the law establishing the legal obligation to keep the data to which it comes as classified information. We feel that this is also very important in order not to abuse property data and someone in advance condemning public media, and his assets are in advance receiving a negative connotation and qualification. In doing so, this law provides for another matter that protects the rule of law, which provides for the tax administration to establish the origin of the property, on the basis of existing tax records, in which the property has been acquired and, if it is found that the property has been acquired in an illegal manner, according to the owner and the property is treated in accordance with this law and other similar laws, with the corresponding rules to be applied. What is important for every democratic and legal state is that procedures are such that no constitutionally-washed citizens are violated, but also that they are not allowed to cast a shadow of what the state wants to achieve by this legislative proposal, which is to introduce order into tax policy, but also to affirm the law-state's assets that take care of all aspects of society. So the state can't allow someone to get rich in an illegal and irregular manner, against the law, without anyone registering or sanctioning it. In that sense, we see the essence of the legal proposal that we are talking about today. The law, which is also important in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group, established two-stageness in proving the origin of the property. Therefore, firstly, the tax administration has an obligation to prove that within three years the person has acquired assets equivalent to 150,000 euros, i.e. dinar equivalent, and then a natural person, the owner of that property must in a certain procedure prove that the property has been acquired in a regular and legal manner. In this way, mistakes in the process, in our opinion, are reduced to the least possible, which is extremely important for the legal certainty of citizens. Also, the tax administration has a legal obligation to, if it finds that the property has been acquired not illegally, that it has been obtained in an irregular manner, to file criminal charges against the competent prosecution against the owner of such property, which also implies the criminal liability of the owner. So it is quite clear, and that is the view of the SPS parliamentary group, that such a legal proposal was necessary and necessary by Serbia's legal system. To be clear, not all assets for which the owner has no proof of origin can always be considered as assets acquired in an irregular and illegal manner. Therefore, not all assets can be considered to have been acquired in an irregular and illegal manner, but if they are higher than the established law, tax is paid under this law and, as I said in the opening statement, at a special rate. It's good that this rate is high, we think it's completely justified because it will motivate those faces to find a way to prove that they've acquired that property in a legitimate way. This law also allows for better visibility of any property and tax on that property, as I said. At the same time, they should encourage all owners to carry out their tax obligations. So, we can say that this law also promotes the overall tax discipline of the state, and that is why I initially said that today's presence is important and the finance minister of Cynthia Mali. We believe that the application of this law, as well as the amendments and additions to the law that we are talking about today, will provide answers to a number of questions that have been raised so far, resolve a number of dilemmas and allow for a fairer relationship with taxation of property. After all, after the application, if any problems are observed, this law can certainly be amended, added through legal procedures, because legal procedures serve it. The laws are there to change, but to change always in the interest of ensuring and safeguarding the legal security of citizens. At the very end, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, of course, will support this legislative proposal in the voting day, as well as agreements I unfortunately didn't have time to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3146	George's a little 20 minutes away. I'd just like to let you know and ask you at the same time, today we're not gonna have a break from 14.00 to 15.00 hours because we started from 12.00 hours practically, so you had that hour before that break. We are going to continue our work now, and we will be working until about 19.00 p.m. at the latest, and accordingly, not to, in view of the afternoon obligations of our colleagues from SNS and the obligation between the rest and Minister Mali, I will ask you to continue our work now and I will give the word to Minister Malo who wants to respond to what Djordje Milicevic said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3147	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Milicevic, just a moment to look back on your exposure. You have made a very important comment and conclusion regarding a regulated system, regarding the introduction of order both in tax collection and in a more orderly, more efficient, better state. So we're from a regulated state, from each of us fulfilling our obligations to live, when we're talking about the two packages of measures you mentioned, so 700 billion dinars last year, here comes the third package of measures, so another 250 billion dinars from the budget. The state showed up, let me tell you, and I said that a few days ago, about 2008, there was money in the budget, before that global crisis that happened, so eventually none of that money was received by the citizens, only as a result we had closed factories, huge deficits, public debt growth, everything that led the Republic of Serbia to bankruptcy almost 2012. Now you have a completely different economic policy. So President Vukic, as prime minister of the government, went into major reforms in 2014. Four years in a row we had a surplus in the budget and then we said, yes, we want to take the greatest burden of the crisis on ourselves as a state, to help citizens. You also mentioned 100 euros when we paid off last year. Here, now every full-time citizen who reports will also receive 60 euros this year plus our oldest citizens another 50 euros, so 110 euros in total. Well, wait, this is, in my opinion, an example of the responsible state, and we're making sure that we help everyone who needs this help, everyone we think is, we feel that they're the most endangered, they're certainly our oldest citizens, and I thank them once again for everything, and I congratulate them on that and the way they deal with this pandemic of the coronary virus. But here, the state is here to help again. How do we help and how do we help? It is precisely by providing enough money through responsible economic policy for what is most important to us, and that is why we are only waiting and expecting the citizens of Serbia to also comply with the laws and in the right way to comply with this payment of taxes, obligations, contributions, ultimately, so that our budget is healthier and that we can make all those promises we made and implement. But I'm saying, the 2008, 2020, 2021 difference, the people get the money they're in the budget back. So this is the people's budget, this is our common budget. We've shown solidarity and unity when we're fighting the pandemic of the coronary virus, and thank you for that finding that this law that we're discussing here today is just directing us towards it. So, not only is there a bigger payment of revenue in the budget, but it's respecting the competition, respecting the state, eventually respecting all citizens who pay taxes and respect all the laws of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3148	Thank you, Minister. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3149	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are now ahead of us with a bill on amendments and additions to the Law establishing the origin of property and special tax, as well as a confirmation of two loan agreements between the German Development Bank and the Republic of Serbia in the field of energy, aimed at improving energy efficiency and which are undoubtedly useful for Serbian citizens. At the very beginning of my today's exhibition, I would like to point out that the effective fight against organised crime and corruption in Serbia began with the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party in 2012, and so far we have managed to pass a whole series of laws that affect the fight against corruption even more effectively in Serbia. The draft law with amendments and additions that we have on the agenda today was adopted on 29 February 2020, and the law came into force on 11 March of the same year and its application begins on 12 March this year. In the case of sub-legislative acts for the application of the Act establishing the origin of the property and the specific tax, it has been found necessary to supplement and amend certain provisions of this Act until its application has begun, in order to avoid any difficulties in the application of this Act. As a result, it is proposed to amend the term ‘unlawfully acquired assets’ into: ‘the property on which a special tax is established’ and to add the term ‘requirements for the private needs of a natural person’, which has been defined as expenditure that the natural person had for private purposes, all with the aim of determining the origin of the income obtained by a natural person and not spent, for example, on the acquisition of assets. For the same reason, it is also proposed to prescribe the jurisdiction of the Tax Administration to pay a special tax in order to comply with the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Therefore, it is proposed that the data obtained by the Tax Administration in the process of determining the origin of the property represent classified information, as I pointed out, and in accordance with the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. This law will apply equally to all citizens where the disproportionate relationship between the declared income and the increased assets is established. Cross-checking of property will be conducted by a special unit of the Tax Administration. In a special unit of the Tax Administration, its members will be delegated to the Ministry of the Interior, the Agency for Business Registers, the Republic Geodetic Institute, the National Bank of Serbia, the Central Register of Deposits and the clearing of securities of value. The law also stipulates that a 75% tax rate is taxing illegally acquired property, and if it is found that a criminal offence has been committed in the process of verifying the property of the tax administration units, it informs the police and the public prosecutor's office. In order for Serbian citizens to understand, anyone who cannot prove the origin of his property and how he acquired the property will be left without three quarters of the value of that property, and if he still has the elements of the crime, it can happen to run out of all assets. The application of the Law establishing the origin of property and the special tax will also lead to transparency in the political functioning and decision-making of public officials, and this law will make it impossible for individual political officials to do what irresponsible political factors have done on the Serbian political scene, for example, by 2012 and the law itself will contribute and lead to greater public officials' responsibilities. So, when the law comes into force, it will apply without exception, both for tycoons and politicians, which are proved to have increased their wealth to the detriment of Serbian citizens. Any application of this law will have to prove how it acquired its property and no one will be able to, because it simply does not allow this law, to hide behind its friends or behind close family members and the law will simply give new instruments and mechanisms to the Tax Administration to determine where certain property comes from. The application of this law is important to bring to the surface how the people who destroyed this country acquired so much wealth. The law will allow the verification of property to clearly determine how certain treasures were created and whether those who illegally acquired certain assets and certain wealth have had an impact on political life and on the political scene in Serbia with the aim of protecting their illegally acquired assets and their wealth. As for the will to apply this law, it is completely clear and unquestionable. Well, the first president, Alexander Vucic, said when he talked about this law that he didn't mind examining both his property and his family's assets, we'd go after everyone else. So it is clear to the citizens of Serbia that we approach peaceful consciences to apply this law and so be it, let the property of all of us be examined first here, and then let us see those leaders of the former regimes what the evidence says and clearly and precisely about their assets and their wealth that they acquired while serving as state authorities. Let it be clear to everyone, we fear no one, and we will save no one. It is obvious that tycoons who have begun to get rich at the expense of Serbian citizens are the most afraid of the spirit of this law and its application, especially those segments of the former regime and newly created rich people who have worked hard to destroy this country economically and politically. That is why one whose law does not respond to its negative emotions shifts into hatred into violence, into the streets, and where they come from, in no way, spontaneous protests on the streets of Belgrade in July 2020. So, as soon as one of these laws began to be spoken more actively in the public in 2019, I think it was almost the same day or two later or earlier, we had a break in the RTS building with motor saws by members of the former regime headed by Dragan Gilas, because he probably still thinks that because of the co-operation with RTS he had in the previous period that it was his personal property. Fear of this law has produced incredible frustration among former regime leaders because it will no longer be able to buy the entire advertising space on RTS, as Dragan Gilas used to do and that he still assures us that it is legitimate, that it should be and that he should be what he was until 2012, which is the editor-in-chief of all media in Serbia. That the editor-in-chief of all the media in Serbia, which was until 2012, is information about the wealth in the property of Brother Dragan Gilas, a certain Goko Gilas, which is measured in thousands of squares of various properties, whose value is measured in millions of euros. So I wonder how anyone in Serbia could have gotten so much wealth measured in 29 apartments, garages, joints in downtown Belgrade. They know the citizens of the Republic of Serbia very well how hard it is and how much one family has to work to earn one apartment to buy, so an apartment in downtown Belgrade. I'd really like to find out, and I think the citizens of Serbia would like to know that, too, what was the origin of his property and his brother's property? How is it possible to gain such an asset within such a short period of time, especially when you are a political official and especially because we know that in 2004, Dragan Gilas did not enter politics as a wealthy man? Also, Vuk Jeremic, who is known primarily for asking the question in front of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, where he has done us a lot of damage to Kosovo and Metohija to establish some suspected NGOs and corrupt activities with his political partners, so I think about Emilia Lozai and Patrick Hoa, who were arrested in New York for corrupt activities, to establish their NGOs exclusively out of the goal and with the goal of getting rich, and Kosovo and Metohija and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija were not concerned. It is therefore necessary to investigate all of these and apply this law, because it is an ideal opportunity for Serbian citizens to see that some politicians have become rich at the expense of citizens and at a time when these same citizens have been rapidly poor. Finally, the time has come for all those who are afraid to apply this law to account for Serbian citizens and to explain how they have become so quickly rich and become literally multimillionaires overnight, right from the moment they entered politics. Unlike Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and other political adherents of honest people in Serbia, as far as I can tell, they are not afraid of the rigorous application of this law at all, but rather of the fact that the time has finally come in Serbia that various politicians and tycoons can no longer laugh in the face of the people and citizens of Serbia, and that they are still wasting what they have kidnapped and robbed of the people. I want to take the opportunity to point out to the citizens of Serbia as long as it reaches the hypocrisy of one part of the opposition's boycott and members of the former regime, right through the daily heifer that leads against President Aleksandar Vukic and his family. They insist on designing everything they really are and believe that such a hypocritical policy can deceive citizens of Serbia and protect their illegally acquired assets. Inconceiving that Aleksandar Vucic owns some restaurants in Belgrade, lands in Vojvodina, bakers in Serbia, and I can see that it is not very good for the citizens of Serbia to convince such lagaries, because Serbian citizens deny them and know the truth because they see who is and how they are fighting for Serbia. That is why Serbian citizens give the SNS and the policy that we are implementing unimpeached and absolute trust. All of their affairs that they make up every day are fake and nothing but fiction. It is they who possess the vast wealth that they have acquired exclusively and only through political action. Look out, they honor us for talking about Dragan Gilas in the Serbian Parliament. We're talking about him because it's an example of how he shouldn't work because he was doing everything to the harm of Serbian citizens and destroying this country. If he had worked differently, he'd probably have been different in the people and talked. We are constantly respected, and every day they keep mentioning only Alexander Vukic and his family members in every place. So, they're just talking about the president of the SNS and it's a clear indicator, respected Serbian citizens that they have no plan, no programme, no policy, no political vision, no mission, that they have no absolute platform for inter-party dialogue, but now they have four platforms for inter-party dialogue over which they publicly argue. This may be a good opportunity, and I want to take advantage of it and give them a proposal to organise first one inter-party dialogue of the former regime parties, of course with the EU's intermediation and the distinguished Mrs. Fajon, so that if we agree on a platform, we continue in a responsible and serious manner of these talks. Everything they say about us, respected citizens of Serbia, that's what they're actually saying about themselves. Serbian citizens trust the SNS rather than the former regime's politicians primarily because of the desperate results that they achieved especially in the period 2000-2012 and therefore there is no place for them in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or on the political scene, but only in the political past. That's why they're bothered by the letter of this law. It is important to note that any lack of an investigation into the origin of property will mean that they are stronger than the state, only because media are so powerful, because through their media lies they try to satanize anyone who doesn't think like them. As SNS, we expect competent institutions to do their jobs and not be afraid no matter how powerful the media or the financial power is. This law and its application will help all officials to be accountable to the citizens of Serbia, and it is our obligation as MPs to say, we must not forget who they were and what they did to this country. We must not allow various Gilasi, Jeremici, to fall back on the coat of arms of the peoples and of Serbia because at that moment there will be nothing left of Serbia. That is why we must warn and remind the citizens of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party expects that the Law establishing the origin of property and a special tax that has been announced since 2000, whose application begins in March, will prevent such a legal framework from coming to power only in order to protect illegal wealth or to make someone rich in this way. This law will also allow for greater confidence of citizens in institutions. The Serbian Progressive Party also believes the law will bring three things to the institutions. It's transparency, accountability and trust. Transparency in the functioning and political decision-making, primarily by public officials, will enable the examination of the way different actors acted. This will certainly lead to responsibility, especially those who perform public functions and represent Serbian citizens. As you can see, today we are discussing amendments and additions to a very important law. It is proof that this government, above all, is referring to the interests of Serbian citizens and that all citizens of Serbia are equal and that these interests that we are taking above each policy. Finally, I would like to say that the Republic of Serbia will continue to work to strengthen its institutions, the rule of law and in the field of implementing the necessary reforms, as well as further economic reinforcements to enable citizens to have better living standards, new investments, new jobs. Our results show that as a country on the right track and that we are no longer known as a country by 2012, in the world we were recognized exclusively after the closure of factories and by corruption, but now in the world we are known as a country by progress, development, digitisation, successfully implemented vaccination procedure, by the best economy in Europe, by strong institutions, new investments, etc. We became a country where young people see their future and in which they want to stay to live thanks to exactly the policy implemented by SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic. Therefore, in the voting day, we will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the origin of property and the special tax, as well as the agreements on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3150	Thank you. Since there are no more registered presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary group, we are moving on to the list of MPs. The word has a national emissary, Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3151	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. We have a set of very important laws ahead of us. What is on the agenda today is certainly an amendment to the Law establishing the origin of the property as well as an additional tax and these two very important loan agreements. First, I will refer to the law relating to the extra tax itself and the origin of the property. In a series of laws that are already applied and implemented this will be a very, very important law because it will make coordination between the institutions in the system much easier to identify and answer more adequately. On the other hand, what's crucial is the implementation of laws themselves. They will remain only a dead letter on paper if it does not show itself decisively and in practice do not apply the law itself, which means it must not be those who are privileged on any basis. It is a guarantee of a stable system, a guarantee and a sincere desire to show and act in the fight against corruption of any kind. On the other hand, the issue of energy efficiency is very important. This is a very important issue in terms of environmentalism, i.e. the preservation of the environment. He certainly needs attention. It is precisely by confirming this agreement that it is shown, which we welcome. What is the subject of the second confirmation of the Loan Agreement is the question of the renewal of the power grid both high voltage and low voltage. I will highlight what the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party have persistently reminded and pointed to problems of poor electricity supply, especially in the territory of Sandzak, because we have, for example, had a lot of problems this winter in this regard where the city, suburban, particularly rural areas had no electricity. On the other hand, poor electricity supply is a very big problem for businesses in the country, so that it takes care of the refurbishment of the power grid, but also maintaining the same and that equally on the territory of the entire country is something that is very important. In that sense, the MPs of the Party and of justice and reconciliation and, as we have announced, the General Assembly Club will certainly support these laws in the day of the vote and we hope to implement them effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3152	Thank you, colleague. The word has been made by the People's MP Vladan Glisc.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, "nomen" or "nomen" are all, as the Latin proverb says, which means that when you name a thing, you determine its essence. You, in these amendments and additions to the law, have made it no longer a matter of illegally acquired property, but of the property on which a special tax will be established. You see the difference. When you say something illegal is acquired, you determine it, stamp it as unacceptable. When you say it's something to apply a special tax, you say it's a normal flow, a normal procedure, that there's nothing so problematic about it. Either a year ago you played demagogy and marketing, when you passed the law with these terms, so now the waist has to correct it so it can be applied, or you're starting to ease the edge of this law. This is not usually opposition cleavage, because when it comes to the Serbian Progressive Party, every precaution is good and necessary. This Law on the Study of Origin of Assets has its own prehistory which shows that this may be a problem, which is the fact that in 2012, when we fought together against the regime of the Democratic Party, one of the promises that you made to voters was whether this law would be passed and people expected it. We have been living in the whirlwind of a wild capitalism for 30 years, and the first attempt to bring this into order was after October 5th, when the Dormouses promised that some similar law would be passed, so under the influence of foreign embassies, from the West, who don't like the oligarchy very much to be questioned, we came into a situation to forget it. In 2012, the expectation of the people is renewed that we will finally allow those who, at the time of all the poor, have become rich enough to question them, so if we are not going to chase witches that we will not allow them to inherit the property they have robbed from this people. But in 2012, it was eight years ago. Eight years you waited to pass the law you promised eight years ago. Why is that? If you had passed this law in 2012, you might not have entered that stupid court procedure against Miroslav Miskovic, but would have brought many things back to the budget without criminal prosecution. But no. The rise and your leader and your party begins the moment he's arrested, because it's marketing. A good assessment of the demagogues that the public would welcome this arrest and expect it to end in a way that would disenfranchise the oligarchy that has bothered us for decades. We are now in a situation where no one even knows how this process ends, and there is a serious danger that Mr. Miskovic will press charges for the various problems he has had to face the budget of our country with millions of euros. That's why I'm not sure, in fact, I doubt it, and I even think that both things you've done, that you've passed this law now, that is. A year ago, with fanfares, a harsh rhetoric, because you're trying marketingly to like the people who are supposed to vote for you again, and then eventually you'll be easing it when the public falls asleep, pushing and numbing the blade of that law. That's why I can't vote for him, because I doubt it. I think it's high time that a party that has so much support in the people and that has so much power starts to work seriously on reforming this society, not just marketing and that we come into a situation that as a junkies you have to have 60 percent in the election. In normal parliamentary democracies, the strongest parties have 30.35%, and then they now negotiate with others, and they have a consensus in society. When each of you has to get 60% and more in your neighborhood, then everyone else has to be crushed, and that's the atmosphere of civil war, and no law like this will help you keep us from going down, because this is just marketing, and that's why I doubt the meaning of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3154	Thank you. Ministers also called for the word. The word is Maja Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3155	Your Honor, I would like to reply to your comments on this law, which is that illegally acquired property can only be established during a criminal trial. Whoever committed the crime and who acquired the property by committing the crime at that time can be talked about illegally acquired property. You've completely mixed up your grandmothers and frogs. This is about the difference, the property that someone has acquired and the income they have, and that is exactly what needs to be determined during this procedure, based on this law, based on the provisions of this law. What you want to reduce is to fight this government against corruption and crime. This is anti-corruption law parexelance. I think this country and this government have shown that it has clearly been determined in this fight against corruption and against crime. All we can do is look back at the last week, the last few weeks of what's been done in that sense. That's why I think all your allegations are absolutely unfounded in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3156	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3157	Thank you very much. Just to relate to what Maya said. So, Mr. Glissic, a large number of falses, absolutely without any arguments. You're talking about some marketing. So, the lawsuit against Miskovic did not trigger some previous government, but launched this power. The tycoons themselves admit that they no longer have any influence on the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's the government of the people, the citizens of Serbia. So things have changed. It's not marketing highway "Milos Great", it's not marketing the best result when it comes to vaccination, it's not marketing when it comes to our economy, it's not marketing dozens, it's hundreds of factories we've opened. Marketing was what Gilas did and similar to him in some previous period. So this is what Maya said about the serious law, the most serious weapon and the tool against and the fight against corruption. There is no marketing when the law enters into force on March 11th and March 12th of this year, the law begins to apply. There is no marketing, there is only serious preparation, serious inspectors, a sector already made in the IRS that is ready to do its job in accordance with the law and in the fight against corruption, and for the sake of all Serbian citizens, to finally introduce order. So, you've confused, Reverend Glisic, the time limits, when she was a previous government and what and how this government does. The promises we make, we keep. There's no marketing, there's only great responsibilities and great and hard work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3158	Thank you. Replica, Vladan Glisic, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3159	Dear Ministers, first of all, regarding the timing, I have just said that this authority has started the process against Miskovic, but that it has been delayed by the Law on the origin of the property that it could bring in 2012, and then on the basis that it solves the problem, and not that we do not know in which direction this process will go and what will happen in the end, whether Miskovic will be able to sue us for what the procedure was done in the way it was done. As for the very story that the term illegally acquired property is not an adequate, respected minister, then it should be directed to those who passed this law a year ago, because it sounded nice to say it was illegally acquired property. That's exactly what I said. Either way, it's either marketing a year ago or now someone's trying to slow down the whole thing. This Assembly, i.e. The SNS that held power then made a mistake, however you turn. I think the marketing story is being recognized seriously. Why is he so insistent on marketing? Because, essentially, the fight against such things in the EU was done the last time in 1945 in France, when, after World War II, they taxed 95% of extraprofestors who were rich during the occupation while they were all poor. It's not done since then. Under the influence of Brussels, laws like this are avoided. Why? Because it suits them that oligarchy decides without the common people asking. It's a model of how they make company and what they do. Why do you do marketing? Because you don't run a fundamental policy different from those that used to rule here by 2012, and they say, "The EU doesn't have an alternative." Today, not even Boris Tadic, who invented that floscule, would not talk like that, but you do the same, and that's why you have to do marketing, because if you were doing a fundamentally different policy, everything would be different, you wouldn't have to do so much marketing.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3160	Replica, Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3161	Thank you very much. I didn't understand you, Mr. Glissic. Are you in favour of the principles on which the EU works or not? Are you fighting corruption or not? If someone else hasn't done it, it doesn't mean we won't, and we shouldn't do it. I just don't understand, once again, what marketing are you, Mr. Ambassador, talking about? Once again, the law passed in February last year is about redefining certain terms and we are going to implement the law in 20 days. Is it marketing or is it a serious commitment to a law that is crucial to the systematic fight against corruption? What difference does it make if something was done in 1945 or not? I'm just asking you not to deceive the citizens of Serbia. The amendments to the law are aimed at making it even more effective. Since the date of application of the law, it does not give up – March 12th of this year. End of story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3162	Thank you. Replica, MP Vladan Glisic, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3163	We've only got one problem. I don't know if you've been a minister, not to make mistakes, but this party came to power in 2012, for eight years, and it was a pre-election promise. So, why have you waited eight years? What kind of speed are we talking about if eight years of waiting to pass one law that was a pre-election promise to all of us who fought against the DS? As far as the EU is concerned, very clearly, I have been fighting corruption, but endemic corruption in this country has been supporting the EU for 20 years. She supports all the governments that are being made. First, with a nice rhetoric of fighting corruption, protecting national interests, voters get votes, but then they have to go on top of the U.S. and other embassies, so that you can take power and then, when you get it, they want to have corrupt politicians who can hold them in drawers, with whom they work easier than with those who are not corrupt. That's what the EU does, that's what Brussels does, and that's why I'm fighting corruption, but not by their dictatorships, not by the deadlines they set. They will now use this law to be able to encourage a factional struggle within your party, because as your party has led us all out of the opposition only folklore and that we do not exist on the ground, because we cannot, since you are fighting for 60% everywhere you appear in the elections, so also those who now decide in Brussels who will rule in the future, know that political life in Serbia will begin when in this Assembly this party will be the largest broken down into factions and directed to each other. I don't have any problem with that. To me, the Serbian Progressive Party is a party that needs to be reduced to make Serbia better, but I fear that in your games, the state will suffer. That's why I'm trying to send a signal, to take care of what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3164	The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3165	Thank you very much. Dear Messenger Glisic, the people choose power in our country, not Brussels, I don't know who else on the side, not you tycoon Miskovic and the like. Well, that's what President Vukic showed and proved years ago and it won't change, whether you like it or not. Serbian citizens voted for the Serbian Progressive Party. There was no help, as was the Tadic you mentioned, whether the tycoon, whether these, or those. We are now going with a law that is an excellent law, which is enforceable and will certainly be an example in the fight against corruption for everyone else. I'm not interested in the others, whether they've done well or not, whether they're good or not in mass vaccination. I don't care about that again. It is important for me that Serbia is good, it is important that it has money, it is important that we fight crime, as we have shown over the past month to fight crime and against corruption, as we have proved by this law, ultimately and by fighting over the past few years. I'm interested in our country, our goals. Every promise we made, Mr. Glissic, so we kept it. You weren't in Serbia in 2012, which was on the verge of bankruptcy. We didn't have any salaries, no pensions, nothing. Closed factories, all torn apart, ruined. And you're talking to me about 2020. Yes, difficult reforms, and for us, it was our priority to stabilise our public finances, to have surpluses in our budget, to build highways, to provide people with jobs. Let me remind you, honourable MPs, in 2013, the unemployment rate in Serbia is 25.9%, and now it's 9%, at the time of the crown. Wait, that didn't fall out of the sky. So, hard work is behind it. Fighting corruption, fighting crime. The tycoons themselves say there is no longer any influence, as they would like, on the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's the result of this particular fight against crime and corruption. This law is just one additional confirmation of that. Once again, we are going to implement this law on March 12th, and that, in my opinion, every comment, every conversation on the subject, whether or not the Government of the Republic of Serbia is serious, we are absolutely serious and ready to deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3166	Thank you, Minister. Alexander Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3167	I thank you, Mrs. Yevdzic. Mr Glisic has brought out a lot of things that are not true and I will hardly be able to answer everything in two minutes. He mentioned 1945. You, Mr. Glisic, have ideologically formed in a political organization that has inherited political work precisely for those who have been rich during World War II while the people have been killed and the people have been poor. I don't need to remind you that you have failed in a political organization that has inherited, though, at times it must have been openly said, at times less openly, but you have inherited the tradition of Dimitri Ljotic. Ljotic was not in the woods during World War II, but was here in Belgrade. You've gardened the tradition of just those who, together with the occupier, made a fortune, who were engaged in the black market, who during the occupation had gained dozens and hundreds of real estate. There are people like that today. We fight against them. You say - this process in Europe ended in 1945. Mostly yes, but I'm asking you, Mr. Glisic, in which a well-organized, civilised Western European state happened what happened in Serbia between 2000 and 2012, that the government so systematically robbed its own people, primarily through robbery privatisations, and then through the fact that you had a whole series of state officials? Dragan Gilas is a typical example of which he performed important state functions. First, he was at the head of the so-called so-called. The People's Offices of the President of the Republic, one completely constitutional and against the constitutional institution, then served as Minister for the National Investment Plan, and then became mayor of Belgrade. During all this time, he had private companies that recorded enormous revenues, operating precisely with the state and state-owned companies. There are no such examples in Europe. In Europe, there is a principle -- those who do public affairs, let their private ones forget. It was a password in the old Dubrovnik Republic. The prince of Dubrovnik, when he entered, when he was brought in, let him say, in power, he took that oath--whoever does public affairs, let his private ones forget. There's been something going on here that hasn't happened in any Western European country, and you know it very well, the state has failed, the state's businesses have failed. Many have been privatised in a criminal way, but their private firms have done the most successful business, not only in Serbia, but also in the region. Now I ask you - why do you mind if we examine how these people came to this property, how did Dragan Djilas come to this property, how did Vuk Jeremic come, how did many who came to the wave of five-octobaric changes in 2000? We remember them very well. They had torn jeans, pierced shoes, which our people would say, had no home to bite them for, after a few years of jeeps, the most expensive suits, companies, flying in the most exotic places in the world. Why does it bother you to examine it? If they prove it's legally acquired, there's no difference, there's no doubt about the origin of that property, everything's fine. But I don't see why you think we're doing what we're doing right now, by the dictatorship of Brussels. I think you're reading the paper, watching TV. Well, every day from that same Brussels, that same Alexander Vukic is being pushed into the wheels and trying to stop Serbia's progress. To be fair, both those who were both last year and years before, and I see they're going to intercede this year too. inter-party dialogue, so a thousand times more were on the side and so on. pro-European opposition rather than SNS. And then you show up on February 23rd 2021 at the National Assembly and say, "What you're doing, you're doing according to the dictatorship of Brussels." No, this is exactly what we're doing to show Brussels that those who they or some of them are protecting have been illegally enriched on the back of this people from 2000 to 2012. One more thing to tell you, it was the argument of many, it was the argument of your colleague Bosko Obradovic, it was an argument and a colleague from DS, it was an argument of all those who did not know what else to say, and then they said – and why didn't you do it in 2012? The government, after the May 2012 elections, was formed, if I'm not mistaken, in July 2012. And now you want to tell us – and why you didn't build the highway "Milos the Great", why you didn't get new tanks, new planes, new combat vehicles, why you didn't bring this one, why you didn't bring that law, etc. Well, it wasn't physically possible to establish order in a country that was completely devastated. You know that in July 2012 there was money in the Republic of Serbia's budget to pay half the pension and then went bankrupt. In such a situation, asking questions – and why you didn't do all this in summer or autumn 2012 is completely pointless. But, as you can see, from year to year, we go ahead and solve problems that not only haven't been solved by the authorities from 2000 to 2012, but also a whole series of other problems that haven't been solved by the communist authorities of Joseph Broz, and we're solving them. Under our authority, no new hospital, no new school, new clinical centres, hundreds of miles of highways. We used to brag that JNA was the fourth military force in Europe. What kind of military force were we during Boris Tadic and Dragan Sutanovac? Not at all. Now we're a very respectable military factor. We are not arming ourselves to attack someone, but to defend ourselves and our people. It's a fact that every well-intentioned citizen admits. Here, Mrs. Yevdzic, with thanks for letting me speak a little longer, just one more thing to say. Well, we hit that tycoon nest that no one could hit. Miskovic was untouchable at the time of Boris Tadic, during the time of all who ruled for the 12 years. Who first came to grips with someone who was a symbol of unwarranted, illegal wealth? It's SNS. Who hit those biggest drug dealers first? Well, it's the government that Alexander Vukitch led. I am glad that the Minister of Justice is here, without the desire to interfere in the work of the judiciary, I only appeal to all courts in the Republic of Serbia, to all judges, to be, of course, independent and independent, but to follow the fight against crime and corruption. Only then will we achieve the full result. When we here in the National Assembly are voting anti-corruption laws and when the ministries apply them, but when they are applied in a consistent manner by courts, because here there is a belief that the National Assembly is the enemy of the courts, that the courts are enemies of the National Assembly and that any government should function without any bridges between itself, and we are for these bridges. So together, the National Assembly, the Government, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Police, the Courts. When these state authorities join together, there's no one who can be stronger than the state. I hope to you as a lawyer, as a lawyer, it's quite clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3168	Thank you. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3169	Mr. Martinovic, I'm going to say something that you know, and our public knows it, but it's not public. In your ranks, one large and massive party of which six normal parties could be made thanks to various ideas, since you have people who advocate NATO and people who advocate ODKB or at least military neutrality, you have people who promote the ideology of homosexualism, you have people who advocate family values, there are among you many who fight corruption, against the Brussels dictatorships, but there are also those who work on the Brussels dictatorships and who are ultimately part of a political nomenclature against which we fought together in 2012. That's what I think about when I talk about someone here conducting the dictatorships of Brussels. There aren't many, but they're very well positioned and wearing your party's badges. On the other hand, I'd remind you the same thing, and it often happens when we're in the middle, if I'd never been a member of Gilas's party. And finally, again, to return you to what you said at the beginning, and I suppose that's because you don't know, I was in Kostunica's party, and it's in the heritage of the tradition of unequal anti-fascism that you respect, as far as I know. So it's all kind of in our conversations like you're having an affair with someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3170	The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3171	You, Mr. Glissic, speak like Mrs. Viola von Kramon. She is your European Parliament's rapporteur for Kosovo. She says these same sentences every day that you said today in the National Assembly – the Serbian Progressive Party is very large, which is why parliamentaryism in Serbia is threatened, which is why SNS should be smaller, there should be fewer MPs in the National Assembly and then there will be more democracy in Serbia. So what you just said about me isn't news. In fact, you're just repeating what some European Parliament officials say in Brussels against whom you fight so much. You're saying I don't know that you're the one who canceled the party of Vojislav Kostunica. I know you were in the party of Vojislav Kostunica, but I also know that you were in the political organisation of the Dvora. And both Dvori and Kostunica's party funded themselves by working 25 and 26 hours a day in Kolubara. That's probably familiar. We read here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the Dvori funded themselves during the same Vojislav Kostunica, by pumping the money out of Columbus. And as for this Vojislav Kostunica you are referring to, whether or not he is a heir to the Montenegrin traditions, that's not so important. The biggest corruption affairs, when it comes to privatisation, occurred during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the first and second governments of Vojislav Kostunica. Whether Vojislav Kostunica personally benefited from it, I personally think he did not, or that he had very little. But the people around him, his ministers, his directors, not that they've benefited, but I think they're the ones who will be the subject of this law's investigation. So I don't know why you brag about things that aren't commendable? The EU has just apostrophe of 24 privatisations that are controversial, not only from the aspect of domestic legislation, but from an aspect of international standards, as an example of not having successful and domestic privatisations. And all these privatisations were made during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. If you think of yourself as someone who has manifested himself in the party of Vojislav Kostunica, then you should bear even political responsibility for the fact that what happened in Serbia in 2004, when the first Kostunica government was formed, 2005, 2006, 2007, then in 2008. That's five years. Not to remind you that another Kostunica government was formed in 2007, if I am not mistaken, on May 14th or 15th – 15 minutes before midnight, as Tomislav Nikolic came out for a pay phone and said – we will no longer report for the word, it is obvious that you and these yellow ones have agreed, here, form a government. That government lasted a year, it was so successful. That's one thing. Another thing I want to remind you, you who are calling for the heritage of Vojislav Kostunica, who has now become the great sovereigns, who have become major opponents of the EU, who are asking us why we allow imports of products from the EU, so you have negotiated a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, which has not negotiated any country that has become an EU candidate or joined the EU. You, I don't mean personally, but your party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, in 2008, adopted a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2008, where Serbia committed itself to introducing zero percent of the customs duty on all goods and services coming from the EU, and then in 2020 and in 2021, as great sovereigns, as great Serbs, as great advocates of helping Serbia's economy, you say -- and how is it possible to import EU products at customs rates that do not exist? Well, because you brought them in. It wasn't the introduction of any country that entered or wanted to join the EU, but it was you who did it in 2008. Every man, reasonable, who doesn't have much to understand in the economy, is clear that a few Serbian companies, that few Serbian agricultural producers can withstand a race with large European companies and large European agricultural producers and we are now having a hard time, different measures, not only agricultural but fiscal policies, we are also trying to help domestic businessmen and domestic farmers to somehow survive on that market in which you threw them, as if someone threw a living man among lions, among ten lions and said: here, I threw you out, so it's working out how you know and know. That's how you did it in 2008. You threw Serbian economy and agriculture among European lions and said, "You're doing well, gentlemen, as you know and know, and then you show up in 2021 and you ask us questions and you say what we're doing, we're doing according to Brussels dictatorship. No, you're doing the dictation of Brussels, you're saying it the way the MEPs say it. So, I have already mentioned to you this Mrs. von Kramon, just as you say Tanya Fajon, so many others say – there is a large SNS, let us reduce it, there are many MPs, parliament is not democratic etc. Those are their words. I find it incomprehensible that those of you who are in those same words against the EU are saying them, and you are essentially leading the same policy as they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3172	Dear colleagues, honoring Article 106, thank you for the exhaustive discussion, we move on to the next speaker. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3173	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Ministers and Associates, today we are talking about the addition of a law that is extremely important, but I must also mention extremely simple. The basic law that we are changing today, or supplementing, has 29 members. There are few laws in the Republic of Serbia that include even serious matter, and that are so fundamentally, concisely and well prepared, but apparently the effort it made to adopt it last year was not enough not to make some petty failures. What were we supposed to do, be a bandhead and say no? What's been seen for these years while the sublegal act is being prepared and trained, people who will start to act on this matter on March 12th -- we're not going to change the law because we're not going to show that we're human and that we can make a mistake. Well, of course, it would be an orderly nonsense, and I'm extremely pleased that the practically detected mistake, the observed disturbance over the past year, and we're in good time, and we're taking away the time and time that when this law comes, we're sure that it's good and relevant in its contents from the first to the last member. Maybe this law even has one extra member, because Article 9 may be a surplus, and he's talking about anyone who acts in these cases prior to the existence of a crime is obliged to report it. Namely, the basic postulate and Criminal Law and all that is related to the work of the government and any citizen in the Republic of Serbia is when he learns there is a criminal offence to report it to the competent state authority to be processed. I understand the wish, and I supported last year to keep this Article 9 in the law, because it really underlines the responsibility of those people who get one very important task, but also the special status in this society, to act under this law, underlines their responsibility not to leave undefined anything that may appear suspicious in the course of their future work. I have to, as someone who's not from a world that supports neoliberal capitalism or even capitalism at all, say next, but in folk language. Large money is mostly illegally and unfairly acquired. There are large amounts of money that are legally and unfairly acquired and unfortunately very few huge pairs have been obtained legally and honestly. But we have one reality today, and that is that we may have lost one period of time, and this is not a demagogy, expecting that the judicial authorities in one more effective way do exactly one serious part of this law. No, they're not. Obviously, for a long time, we were unaware of the consequences left by the Serbian judiciary for the 2010 reform. And too many times we talked about it, to open that topic up now, I think it's clear to everyone what I'm talking about. In this law, there are no dilemmas that open up space for us lawyers or lawyers to conduct long lawsuits, long criminal proceedings, as is the basis for taxing someone's assets that he has not acquired legally or fairly. With this amendment in Article 5 of this Act, where the word - illegally acquired property - is replaced by words - property on which a special tax is established; we are in fact asking mathematics. Not even in statistics, but in math. On the one hand, a simple account, collects the reported revenues, on the other hand the acquired assets it owns, whether there is a disproportionateity prescribed by the law during that time period of 150 000 euros. If there is, it is time for a team of people who are trained in the meantime to do their job, implement the procedure as prescribed and where there is a reason, where the one who came into that position is obliged to prove what he did not prove that he had reported and obtained legally, pays 75% of the value of that property, pays to the state of Serbia. It's abnormal to let us have over-rich and gray and black zones, various tycoons, and make our country poorer. This is one of the laws that the Republic of Serbia needs, which has quite raised its feet, but even more to strengthen in its economic stability and to strengthen in some future investment momentum that awaits us behind all these major infrastructure projects, because I am still an irreparable optimist as far as this is concerned. Otherwise, it's not a commercial, it's not another attempt to solve the property issue in a similar way, someone mentioned before me that it was October 5th. I really don't remember that the petoctobarians in any way wanted to check on illegally acquired property, because it was this pussy phallang that made Serbia poor, robbed Serbia and did use its coming to power to become far richer and more powerful than Serbia, and a bunch of people were unemployed. There's from that period, which I like much more, a failed action called "you have the house, you have the apartment," so it didn't give the effects, but all that didn't give the effects, there was no political will to do it. One of the colleagues who spoke earlier that the biggest problem would be to enforce this law the confusion of the ranks. It is just by passing this law that the ranks of the ruling set, the coalition in power, are not mixed in any way with those who could obstruct the implementation of this law. If someone breaks a case somewhere behind something and hides, given what we're talking about today, which is that priority and focus will be primarily on those who are in power today, because first you have to clean up your ranks, prove that you are such and that you can move on without any doubt, so that someone doesn't respect you for any political revenge or political background of the application of this law. Then this only clearly shows that there is no fear, that there is a desire that even if there is one, it is thus removed from the ruling coalition, because there is no place for it and that all those who would in such a way might do something future in life. I am very sorry that I am very concerned about the time period, in reverse, application and possibility of applying this law, because although there are no limits on objectivity, the ability to collect data and all of that, I am afraid that it will just provide the possibility for those who have acquired and acquired capital on 25 hours of work of machines on spears, which are needlessly rented, to buy candy for three euros or two euros, that they may even remain out of reach of this law. It seems that what is possible, politics is a skill that is possible and we must do what is possible, not only is it worth talking about some past times, robbery privatisations, because Serbia has to stabilise its finances, it has to clearly distinguish who is, what and how and how it acquired, who in the future can appear as the owner of capital, who can be someone who employs a huge number of people, because only clean bills provide an opportunity for better, healthy and better Serbia. I cannot expect, dear fellow Martinovic, that someone who, not only existed in 2004, had the government that allowed the biggest corruption affairs, in a moment I will return to October 5th, the president of the government knowingly and deliberately agreed to be Yugoslav President in the elections, in which he did not win in the way that the regulations and regulations at the time. He did not get 50% plus one vote and could already be expected from that legality and legitimacy, and authorities are not expected to do anything good, and that is what Serbian citizens felt on their backs. The expectations of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are high. We are representatives, above all citizens, and not political parties to which we belong, and I believe that in this room, everyone will vote with a truly pure heart and goodwill for these changes as well, as is practical, if I am not mistakenly and unanimously this law and last year adopted, because none of us in this room is burdened by the fact that his property will also be checked. Those who put up a joke that this is a place for political revenge seem to have serious reasons and worry about what mathematics between their reported incomes, the assets they have to show and whether they will finally pay 75% of this special tax to the Republic of Serbia and in some way damage the citizens who robbed by 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3174	I thank the People's MP, George Komlensky. The next on the list is National MP Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3175	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the most important amendment to the Law on the designation of origin of property and special tax, refers to the change of term - the property acquired illegally in - the property to which a special tax is established, and in order not to be identified with the term - the property derived from the criminal act. The paper is an expression, expenditure on private needs of a natural person to determine the origin of income that a natural person did not spend on obtaining property. The Act establishing the origin of the property and the special tax was adopted on 29 February 2020. It's starting to apply on March 12th 2021. These changes clearly draw legal standards to prevent the accuracy of the possibility of creating and finding different cracks in the law itself. Before the law was passed, questions could also be heard, why is the origin of the property not resolved through different sublaws, and in the context of the already existing Tax Procedure Act? Looking at EU countries, it is concluded that there is no uniformity in solving this problem of origin of property, but the common characteristic of different legal solutions is the insistence on the legal system to control revenues and thus prevent all possible abuses, and there is also the answer to why a special law. First, without an orderly tax system, there is no state. Second, the special law reduces the possibility of abuse of legal norms and so on. misreading the provisions and increasing the effectiveness of the fight against corruption. One of the criticisms is that although the law is important, it will actually be a struggle with political insolents and that only those small privates such as hairdressers, bakers, etc. will be found in his stroke. As a representative of the SDPS and the Social Democrats, I represent a policy in which the main thread is the backbone of social justice. There's a saying that the greatest injustice is to treat the unequal. It is therefore important to clarify that the social component of this law is precisely a clear, unequivocally established determination of disproportionateness between income and property. This would mean that tax authorities will be controlled by those found to have a 150,000-euro gap in three calendar years between reported income and assets. The tax administration will have an obligation to prove in which cases there was an increase in assets, and on the other hand, natural persons have an obligation to prove that the property was acquired in a legitimate manner. No matter how unpopular these laws are, they are necessary for a country to have a regulated tax system, and that is why it is placed in a group of serious countries where institutions are respected. In fact, the law begins to exist when it comes out of the congregation procedure and only then do you see all its sides. In order for the law to be effective, it must be applied. This would mean that the most important role in expertise, knowledge, preparation, efficiency, the integrity of a person from a special unit of the Tax Administration, which will actually give life to the law and point out this and its main purpose of adoption, which is to reduce corrupt activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3176	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3177	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a law on amendments and additions to the Law establishing the origin of property and a special tax. Given that we adopted this law on 29 February 2020, that it entered into force on 11 March 2020 and that with its application it will start on 12 March 2021, JS also voted for the law, so in the day of voting and voting for these amendments and amendments to the law. In fact, we in the JS believe that corruption and crime are the cancer of every society, that there is no social and economic development, that there is no quality direct foreign investment, that there are no new jobs without uncompromising and harsh fight against crime and corruption. That's why we support this anti-corruption law. The very need to examine the origin of the property is closely linked to corruption, tax evasion and crime. Corruption is an old phenomenon, about the occurrence of corruption is linked to the first organised form of society, i.e. the occurrence of corruption occurs with the appearance of the state. It's also known in the ancient era, so it's also defined in Roman law. The most famous Christian prayer “Our Father” says – do not tempt me. I don't think there's anything more picturesque about the condition of an individual who's in a position to pick up anything from unlicensed fruit or forbidden fruit. Corruption was also spread in the Ottoman Empire. A ten-year-old in the folk song, which he says, gave Marco three loads of gold, and brought the poor to paradise, speaking of corruption by Turkish tenants at the time. Unfortunately, although treated as negative, as a bad social phenomenon, corruption has been accepted through history and treated as necessarily evil. Under the applicable legislation defined in the Anti-Corruption Prevention Act and the Anti-Corruption Agency, corruption is defined as a relationship based on abuse of official or social status and influence in the private or public sector, with the aim of obtaining personal benefit or benefit for someone else. It is very important here that the law not only limits corruption to the public sector that is most discussed here, but also to the private sector. Sam President JS, Dragan Markovic Palma, has repeatedly pointed out in this higher house that there are companies, companies that deal with constant application in tenders, and in return seek a certain financial compensation to either withdraw from the tender race or not to complain about the tender procedure, thereby extending the process of contracting and starting jobs. Of course, not all environments are equally suitable for the development of corruption. We can see several different models of behavior in different local environments and local communities. We have a community of host mentality, a community that respects accepted rules of conduct and norms of ordinary law. We have the opposite situation of a community without a host mentality where these standards of behavior are not respected and we have a community at a time of transition, it's a community in interspace, in the meantime between two systems or two authorities. The least corruption, of course, can be developed in a model of conduct in a community in which domestic morality rules, since household morality implies respect for work and work acquired values. There is simply a saying – there is no bread without tumult. Domestic morality means respect spoken and given words. There is a saying: a man binds himself to the word, and an ox to the horns. The obligation of the host is to take care of the family and the host will never put the family at risk. Surely corruption is one of these risky situations and would not put his family on a pillar of shame the host will never resort to this way and to this form of social behavior. That's why we in Unity Serbia are fighting for the preservation of exactly this kind of home-made behavioral model that preserves and cultivates accepted rules of conduct and norms of ordinary law. That's why our slogan doesn't change from the formation of a party and it's domestic. How long corruption lasts and the fight against this socially deviating and socio-economically very harmful phenomenon. Of course, the chain of corruption can never be completely interrupted, but it certainly takes a struggle to bring this socially undesirable phenomenon down to some minimum, or to a lesser extent. In that sense, we in Unity Serbia will unreservedly support any kind of anti-corruption struggle, both through such anti-corruption laws and through numerous actions by state authorities to combat and prevent corruption. We believe that no one should and will not be protected from the process of control of the origin of the property, because in this way we are making the greatest contribution to curbing this devastating phenomenon. Once again, we from Unity Serbia will vote in favour of this law in the day of voting because we believe that, with the preservation of territorial integrity, sovereignty and economic strengthening of our country, one of the most important and important tasks is the fight against crime and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3178	I thank the People's MP, Life Starčević. The word has a People's Messenger, Deep King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3179	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as president of the Association Group of Friendships with the Comoros Islands, at the very beginning of my presentation, I believe I am obliged to refer to the allegations published in the Pristina media, about how this state has recognised so-called. Kosovo. She did so in 2009, and in 2018 she withdrew, when her representative made an explicit promise to then Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, now to the president of the National Assembly, that the state would consult Serbia in making all important decisions regarding our southern province. They kept that promise, which shows that after these allegations came from Pristina faster and better announced the denials and showed that they were loyal to the deal they made with the former foreign minister and showed that the strength of the friendships that Ivica Dacic built around the world was such that they could resist the pressures that were imminent. But to return to what is the subject of today’s session, which is the Law establishing the origin of property and a special tax. The Socialist Party of Serbia has already supported the law during its adoption, and today we will support the proposed changes and additions. For example, in the original text of the law, it remains unclear which level of government will collect income from this particular tax and now the dilemma of the proposed additions is being removed, in that it is prescribed that the beneficiary of the income generated by the special tax will be the budget of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, the highest level of government. I hope and believe that these funds will be used for the general benefit of all Serbian citizens. I will, of course, agree with all the colleagues who spoke before me and who at the beginning of the application of this law saw a further contribution to the fight against organised crime and corruption, and I personally believe that this law creates assumptions that their financial wings are cut off by criminal structures in our country. The law really has the potential to act on the gaps in the past, so that by standardising a special tax and prescribing such a high tax rate it also acts preventively. But today, I do not want to talk about this law with either the legal or the political aspect, but only from the aspect of the importance this law will have for our citizens. In that sense, it is important to note that I do not consider it a regulation that casts doubt on anyone, which has been proposed today and confirmed in that sense that the term “illegally acquired property ” will no longer be used. So it is not prejudged that anyone's property is illegal, no one is being accused, but the question is raised for those who in three consecutive years acquired assets exceeding 150,000 euros. A question that every serious and fiscally responsible state can legitimately, should and must ask its citizens, which is a question of origin of property, a question where did you get it and how did you get it. Anyone who has achieved revenue in an honorable manner, by their work, by his knowledge, who has paid taxes on these revenues, should not have a problem with answering that question and actually start to apply this law and should not be interested in it, except possibly in the context of commendation to the state which, through the introduction of such mechanisms, wants to suppress the gray zone and illegal activities. It is not a message of this law that it is a shame to be rich, but applause for its success in acquiring can only be given to one who has done so in a legitimate and fair way and it is a message of this law. Even if someone won the lottery, I congratulate him on it, but that fact must not be a secret to the IRS, but rather, he must pay taxes on gambling revenues. If someone inherited a huge property, they got it on a gift, I think it's great, but those revenues have to be reported and paid the inheritance and gift tax. There are countries in the world where wealth is expressed in how much tax is paid. That's what the social status of individuals is about. I also want it to be a matter of honor in our country, not to look with certain sympathy at those who have managed to play the system and avoid paying taxes. For an ordinary citizen of our country, this law is certainly a satisfaction because in all times, even in this moment, there are those who are rich, and it is not clear to anyone how or in any way. We can only guess about that. I sincerely hope that the effective application of this law will end such hunches, and the SPS will never stop contributing to the fight against organised crime and corruption, and we will strive and persist in attempts to eliminate these phenomena completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3180	I thank the People's Messenger, Deep King. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3181	The chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected Justice Minister, respected ministers, as far as the acts on the agenda today are concerned, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will certainly support them in the day of the vote. As far as the Law of Origin of Assets is concerned, I absolutely have no doubt that the vast majority of people who deal with politics in this country respect the law and property and the property they have, that they have acquired it in accordance with the law. However, those who did not do so are certain that this is an additional contribution to the fight against crime and corruption. No one can be spared in that fight. What I'm hoping for is that we're not going to enter into a new banalization so that politicians start competing in how much less property there is and we remember that story when one minister said that the bed he's sleeping on isn't his, which is both sad and funny, and I hope we don't get into that extreme. As far as loans are concerned, it is very important whether these loans go into consumption or investment, if they go into investment, as is the case here, it should certainly be supported. As far as the public sector is concerned, it's a very important segment, since I come from the area, from Sandzak. The new Pazar is very often on scales as a city that is highly polluted and I believe that in this struggle we must be much more efficient. As for the "Electro Networks of Serbia" and the high voltage and low voltage network have to change, we have witnessed this winter that a large number of villages in the pre-pol, Novvaro end, Sjenica, Tutin, Pester, had no regular supply of electricity and that agricultural land and all that they are doing on their land were threatened by our farmers. In order for this to never happen again, we certainly need this loan. I want to take this opportunity and mention, very often in this House we have talked about the Prijepolje and the problem of not the sanitary dump of the State. Today, in the municipality of Prepolje, a resolution contract was signed, not a sanitary dump. It's a great day for that community, the community from which I come, a great day for the government. Thank you, Prime Minister, thank you, Prime Minister Irena Vujovic, thank you to the municipal leadership and President of Babić Municipality, this new administration for welcoming that great day, and I especially want to highlight my colleague from Priboj, Krst Janjusevic, who made his huge contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3182	I thank the People's MP Samir Tandira. The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3183	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the designation of origin of property and special tax. I would refer to the fact that the Taxation, Origin of Assets and Special Tax Act, adopted on 29 February 2020, came into force on 11 March 2020 and started to apply from 12 March of the current year. The law too deals with those assets which a natural person cannot prove that it has acquired in a legitimate way, and the basis of the law, makes cross-checking of property, establishes a special tax procedure that is carried out by the tax administration, i.e. a special tax administration unit. Units will determine the property and increase the assets of the natural person, as well as the special tax on the introduction of assets for which the person cannot prove that it has been acquired in a legitimate manner. The origin of the property is made by the tax administration's tax administration's units with an insight into the data shown in tax returns and tax balances, accounting reports, other records, databases and comparisons of tax accounts and other official records. The total assets of the natural person shall be taken into account when determining the value of the asset, the burden of proof on the natural person that the property has been legally acquired. If, in the course of the process of confirming the property, its origin and its value, it is established that there are facts that indicate that a criminal offence has been committed, the tax administration unit shall inform the police, the public prosecutor's office and other other competent authorities. It is important to point out that the law, by its nature, is within the scope of the laws on the prevention of corruption and that the state gets an effective mechanism, that at any time, it can determine whether it has been illegally enriched because all citizens need to know that it is very easy to determine whether their property is a product of corruption and abuse or has been obtained legally, and on the other hand, the law has a mechanism for the collection of illegally acquired goods. The most important amendment to the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the designation of origin of property and to the specific tax applies to the change of term - illegally acquired assets in - property to which a special tax is established. So that the term does not identify itself with the term - property derived from the crime. The change also refers to the addition of the term - expenditure for private needs of a natural person who has been defined as expenditure that a natural person has had for private purposes and to determine the origin of the income obtained by a natural person and did not spend it on obtaining his own property. Amendments and additions to the proposed law as well as the law itself are very important for the Republic of Serbia because one systemically regulates how to fight corruption more effectively, to charge the state much more than taxes, and all in order to build a stronger and better state of the Republic of Serbia. I call on all my fellow Members of Parliament to support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3184	Thank you. The next on the speaker list is MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3185	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, it is good that we are discussing today, and I hope that we will soon adopt the proposed amendments to the Law establishing the origin of property and the special tax, because the law will soon be applied in practice. This way we will remove some of the doubts that exist in the law before its application, and in this way we will make this system effective, or these doubts will not be shown practically on the ground when the law is applied. In 15, 20 days, the IRS will have one complex, and I'd say, one difficult task. It's up to us to pave the way, to create a path where there won't be any interference with this law being implemented. We expect that by applying this law, states will show important things, above all this is one of the most significant laws that has been passed in the previous assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This law shows, above all, the determination to deal with corruption in all its segments. It shows that they're all equal in front of the law. It shows that any suspicious wealth will be evicted and shows that we are creating an efficient and serious tax system. Indeed, if we look back at the past, we will see that in some of the turbulent times behind us, there have been many injustices. This law should correct those injustices. Of course, it won't make it right, but part of it will. From these turbulent times, many came out with expensive cars, with pitchforks, with yachts, with huge apartments, and on the other hand we had a large number of unemployed people, people who were out of work, and that number is measured in thousands, in tens of thousands. There was a gap between a minority who had many and most who struggled to survive. What matters when we talk about this law is that this is how we send a message that all are equal before the law when we talk about paying taxes. So it's very simple, how much traffic so much taxes. Everyone should pay their taxes. No one can get rich single-handedly without paying taxes and someone working for a minimumer and paying taxes. That's why we in the SDPS are pushing for a progressive taxation system. So as wealth grows, so does the rate of taxes. When we talk about it, it's important to say that this way, too, we're sending a message that no one thinks they don't pay taxes anymore, because it won't be worth it. Non-taxation is not something that's an abstract term. It's a very specific story. If we want free education, if we want quality education, if we want one comprehensive social protection, good roads, everyone has to pay taxes. Because of this, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, because this way we show that they are all equal before the law and that there are no privileges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3186	I thank you, especially for taking care of the weather, for leaving little time for your colleague. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3187	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers and the Honorable Citizens. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the origin of the property and the special tax requires correction and improvement of the previously adopted law, since the production of sublaws has shown that problems could arise in its application. It's a perfectly normal thing. I expect that at least once again we will have this point of the agenda in the next period, because the very application of the law starting on 12 March this year will show other things that can lead to problems that will be seen by its application. You all remember that we recently passed the Digital Property Act, and in the very definition of the property of a natural person, the digital property of that natural person comes in if he owns it. The importance of this bill with the proposed amendments and additions is multiple. It is precisely because of this multiple importance that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support this amendment and the addition of the law in the voting day. I would share the importance of this law and its corrections in two categories. First, achieving fiscal objectives and secondly – objectives to improve the complete system. Therefore, the improvement of the efficiency of the tax system falls under the achievement of fiscal objectives, as taxes represent the most significant form of public income, with a particular 75% tax on the value of the property on which the special tax is determined and directly going into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is currently talking about achieving the fiscal objectives of this draft amending and supplementing the law, which is its primary objective. Much more important things than fiscal goals are those other – non-fiscal goals. First, prevention. With one law and the determination of the state to detect the shortcomings of the law as soon as possible, as we do today with these amendments and additions to the law. A clear message is being sent that, in the root, it will prevent accumulation of any illegally acquired assets or assets that cannot be determined by origin of legal revenues, and this is a clear indication to all those who may think they will be able to hide or make such assets invisible, to forget it. Taxing property where origin cannot be proven to be legitimate income is a strong and efficient state mechanism because it allows such property to fall under a specific taxation regime of 75% of its value. Secondly, the social and economic category of the law is raised to a higher level because the social situation of taxpayers is thus balanced or mitigated by the difference between taxpayers whose property corresponds to the incomes they make and those of taxpayers where there is a disproportionateity between assets and income achieved. The natural person is a taxpayer who owns a property on which a special tax is determined, and today we go a step further, he must pay tax on the funds spent past the acquisition of that property, and in this proposal the law defines as – expenditure for private needs of a natural person. This will further alleviate these differences. Finally, thirdly, and that should be said, the proposed legislative solutions concern all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so they are not applied selectively. Anyone who has property to which a special tax is determined, which, with this proposal, changes and addition of the law, is more detailedly explained comes under the influence of this law. In order to better apply the law, it prescribes mandatory coordination and co-operation between different institutions that can have relevant information to determine the real property of a person, and their networking aims to achieve much faster. In the end, this law increases citizens' trust in the state. That is why the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the amendment and amendment of the law in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3188	Thank you. You've spent time with the Single Serbia parliamentary group. The word has been made by MPs, deputy head of the Snezana Paunovic parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3189	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues, dear citizens of Serbia. In front of us, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the designation of origin of property and special tax, but also two other agreements in my opinion are not less important, both with the German Development Bank. The first concerns the regional problem of energy efficiency and the second concerns energy efficiency in buildings of public purposes and renewable energy sources. I'm going to start at the end, fully aware, not because I think the bill on the origin of property and the special tax is not important, but because we are mostly talking about it in today's search. The value of these two agreements is 50 million. The first 40m euros, with a 15-year repayment deadline, means until 2035, under the circumstances that it was signed in December 2020 and for the sake of the public and Serbian citizens, I will explain why it is important. The importance of this project is that it connects the East with the West from Ukraine to Italy, thus creating a possibility for further development of energy projects and options for electricity trading. It opens up the possibility for Serbia to take advantage of its potential and geographical position in this regard, because it will have a positive effect on both the economic and social development of the country in our future, so that Serbia gets a chance to stand out as a regional leader in the field of electricity, adequate investment and a reliable power structure leading to the economic improvement of every country, including us. These projects mainly create opportunities for new jobs, thus improving the quality of life of all our citizens. The second agreement, not less important, with the value of 50 million, but I also said, with a repayment deadline of 2035, signed also in December 2020, I think they were both signed by Minister Mali, again a very important agreement, but from this distance we may have even more awareness of why it is important. It aims to improve energy efficiency in public-purpose buildings and renewable energy sources. He mainly treats the Military Academy, which I will remind is the top medical and research institution, the largest hospital in Serbia, and one of the largest in Europe. It is important to say that it was founded in 1844, and was originally intended to treat only officers and soldiers, but that today it is fully integrated into the health system of the Republic of Serbia, where a large number of civilians are now being treated. The construction of the building was completed in 1981, so almost 40 years after it ended. It remains in relatively good condition, but largely deviates from modern energy efficiency standards. That's why this project is very important. If we remember that the previous year, and this also carries the mortgage of the crisis caused by the pandemic of the Corona virus, we must say out loud that, apart from Serbia's good struggle, we have somehow realized for the first time through this pandemic how important it is for us to have an orderly health system, and how much we need to invest constantly in hospitals and equipment, and also in healthcare workers and we are trying to make sure that Serbian citizens have the best health system and in some easier times, let alone in times like this and which are marked by one such virus that fights all of humanity. When it comes to the proposal for a law establishing the origin of property and a special tax, it has somehow caused a rather schizophrenic reaction to one part of the public, and it is not that it is not understandable to me from the position that someone has the fear of such acts being brought by the Serbian Parliament. All the colleagues who spoke before me have said what is the essence of the changes we are talking about today and I will not repeat myself, but it is important to say that I even think that we may have spent a lot of time on the interpretation of one of these laws that is necessary for every democratic society. We have to have him. Fighting corruption is something they use in the daily address of the general public all those who would reach any, even small authorities, and then when we come to a phase to discuss legal acts that will regulate this fight against corruption, then we have different angles from which we observe such laws and mostly some critical attitudes that are primarily motivated by some personal fears. I am pleased that this law, after almost a year of its first adoption, will come into force on March 12th and will show all its good and bad sides. There is no law passed by any parliament in the world, including the Serbian parliament, which may not have shown certain faults in its application. Here, we have already had here from one year to the start of law enforcement some shortcomings that have proved and parliament is today intervened in this sense, which does not mean that there will be a problem intervening and in the future, if there is a flaw in this law, an anomaly that is not applicable in society. What's sure to turn up is one... It seems to me that a colleague from the SDPS has said a key sentence – the tax administration will have more work to do, it has a serious task ahead of it, the citizens of Serbia will perhaps have more information about something only now, it would be said, unfoundedly speculating and we will know what it looks like when someone finally is legal or has not legally acquired his capital. Seventy-five percent of taxes, as far as the law predicted tax rates, and when we discussed it was an initiative to be even 100%, so it was an initiative to be less, somewhere it was measured to be 75% and well, maybe I would be more rigorous in that sense myself, but it's important to show that there is a zero degree of tolerance to corruption, to suppress it to the least possible extent, although, and we have to say, corruption is nothing that matters only to Serbia. It appears everywhere in the world, it exists everywhere in the world. What is our obligation as a representative of the people and people sitting in a legislative body is to just prevent one such possibility and, better yet, to prevent everything that has happened to us and what we have witnessed for decades, and that is that some people who have incomprehensible ways come to a certain capital in us, then even because of their arrogance want to become a model of behavior. It is important that the law treats the procedure to be initiated under official duty and that the procedure can also be initiated on the basis of the application of any natural person indicating that there is a reasonable doubt that the other person has excess assets and that the excess property is not acquired in accordance with the law. In addition to the state’s fight against corruption through its mechanisms, each of us would have to have a sense of moral civil responsibility and indicate that corruption exists. Whether or not there will be abuse in this part, probably, but there is no charge that, unless there is valid evidence, can be valid. So, the position of the SPS parliamentary group is that we will never stop giving our contribution to reducing corruption in an attempt to eliminate it entirely to ensure, above all, legal certainty for all citizens and in our programme the primary objective is social equality, so we are gathered around the idea that we neither support nor understand a corrupt approach. The SPS parliamentary group will certainly support amendments and additions to this law in the voting day, but also two agreements ahead of us in the hope that this is the first step in the final indeed accounting with corrupt behaviour, and all that eventually and through the bill's proposal appears as a mistake or anomaly, we are ready to improve in the mandate that is ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3190	I thank the People's MP, Snezani Paunovic. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3191	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, exactly one year ago for my great pleasure, I had the opportunity to vote in this high House for the adoption of the Law on the Origin of Property and Special Tax, which has started to apply since 12 March this year. During the preparation of sublegislative acts, it has been established that certain provisions of this law need to be amended and complemented in order to simply warn that certain problems arise when the law is applied, and that is exactly what is addressed by these amendments and amendments to the Law. Today, we have heard a lot from my colleagues about some promises and indeed more than 20 years ago literally all parties in power promised the citizens of the Republic of Serbia the adoption of one such law, but simply, the fact that only SNS was led by Alexander Vukic, of course, as the head of this government, had the political will and fulfilled its promise to the citizens and passed one such law. It is interesting indeed that some opposition politicians comment on the adoption of this law, or rather, they express some kind of concern that this law will be used for some sort of action with the opposition. The question is, where does one think like this come from? Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there is a wise saying in our people that says that a good man thinks they're all good, that a thief thinks they're all thieves, that a liar thinks they're all lying, so everyone moves on. I am now wondering – these publishers of such statements, these opposition politicians, would they, if by any chance, were the government in this country to use certain laws to deal with the opposition? Indeed, why would anyone fear the adoption of such a law, be it the authority or opposition at this point, if it can prove the origin of its property? I think it is, simply, that some politicians know that they can't prove the origin of their assets, that there are many politicians, especially opposition politicians who now make such statements in public, that when they entered politics they had one real estate in their name, and that today they have over 30 real estates in prestigious locations in Belgrade, and it's simply someone who believes that there's this kind of anxiety that happens in them, because this law literally takes effect in just a few days. What is important for citizens to know is that this law will make it possible literally for everyone at any time to determine whether they have been enriched illegally and if proven, or if someone cannot prove the origin of their property, he will have to invest 75% of the value of his property in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Therefore, this Law on the determination of the origin of property and the special tax is just another tool in the determined fight that the state of Serbia is fighting corruption. The law defines that a special unit of the tax administration is initiating a control procedure if there is doubt when a risk analysis is carried out that there is a disproportionate between the declared income and the increase of someone's assets. For example, if one natural person reports that he has a monthly income, for example, 120,000 dinars, and for three consecutive calendar years he has a property owned by, for example, a million euros, such a person, if he cannot prove the origin of that property, he will have to invest 75% of the value of that property in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and in this case it is 750,000 euros. The special unit of the tax administration is representatives, experts from relevant institutions, the National Bank of Serbia, the Ministry of Money Laundering, the Anti-Corruption Agency and other relevant institutions. Today, we have had the opportunity to hear from Minister Sinisha Malio that at this point this unit has 20 specially trained inspectors, and that at some point the full application of the law will be hired, or employed by about 60 inspectors. Now, I believe that the citizens of Serbia are particularly interested in the way in which that list will actually be established, i.e. which people and how they will be controlled. The Director of the Tax Administration shall adopt annual guidelines based on a risk analysis. But what I particularly want to point out is that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know, because I think we haven't talked about it enough today, that the procedure can be initiated even after every natural person's application, or after the application of a natural person, a legal person or some other institutions. So, in no way does it stand out what I was talking about at first and what certain representatives of the opposition say, that the government can use this law in any way for any account with the opposition, because it is clear that these representatives of the opposition as citizens, as individuals, are precisely able to report to the tax administration department, which will initiate proceedings against any person considered to be disproportionate between the declared incomes and the increase of its assets. It's defined by Article 12 of this Act. To conclude, the law equally applies to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, in their lifestyle, suspect that their incomes are not in line with what they reported. This law will be a sharp sword in the fight against corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3192	I thank the MP, Olivera Pesic. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3193	Thank you. The respected chairman, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, today, I will look only briefly at the loan agreement between the German Development Bank and the Republic of Serbia, which concerns the 50m-euro energy efficiency project. In fact, energy efficiency in Serbia, as well as in all Western Balkan countries, is at a low level if we compare ourselves to Western European countries, and it mainly refers not only to technical devices, but also to how we act, in the sense that we have to raise awareness of electricity consumption to a minimum, while still retaining the proper level of comfort, so that we can effectively carry out the daily jobs we are used to. The way electricity is produced has crucial importance and impact when it comes to climate and the environment at all, and therefore we need to use all our resources, i.e. to target certain areas. Here, first of all, I mean waste management, waste water, then mass energy reconstruction of buildings, etc. You will agree with me that being energy efficient in the 21st century is actually a matter of culture, i.e. a model of behaviour in all modern European countries, so, for example, Serbia spends two and a half times more electricity than the global average per unit of social product. The government of the Republic of Serbia announced a number of projects in this area of more than 1.5 billion euros for 2021, and I think it is a good start to address all those issues relating to energy efficiency, which we can influence with the concrete proposals and projects that we have ahead of us. Since I don't have much time, I'm just going to mention that a project like this exists at the Nish city level. We're proud of it. In the middle of last year, participation in preparatory activities for the implementation of the project "Improving energy efficiency of residential buildings in Nis" was accepted, and was conducted in co-operation for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and its essence is to improve energy efficiency for about 40 residential buildings in Nis. Given that the European Union is making sure that it invests significant resources in energy efficiency when it comes to Western Balkan countries, these advantages and these opportunities should be used to step up with Europe in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3194	Thank you. It's not my place to commend you, but it's a big deal that the MP's group made it in nine minutes and 38 seconds maximum use of time, so the three of you talked, but now you've used all your time. The finance minister isn't here to answer you right now. As you can see, he's being replaced by the Minister of Education. We're moving on. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Mihailo Jokic. If you agree, MP, as soon as they deliver the card, you will get the word, but in order not to wait a few minutes now, I will give the word to the MP, Olija Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3195	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are facing today an extremely important proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law establishing the origin of property and a special tax. This law takes another step forward in the fight against illegally acquired property, by establishing a more efficient and simpler mechanism of taxation of undeclared income compared to the already existing mechanism of the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration. This prevents abuse in cases where the value of a natural person’s assets is not justified, i.e. there is no visible source, i.e. it is not obtained in a legitimate manner. What I think is very important to point out, even more than once, because of the public who is following us, is that the assets of all persons are being checked, which would mean from the President of the Republic, politicians, officials, businessmen, to all citizens without exception. The process itself begins with persons who are likely to differ in a maximum of three consecutive calendar years between the increase in assets and the registered income of that natural person, which is more than 150,000 euros. This limit has been set, given that this amount represents the lower limit of the acquisition of the property to which the special tax is paid, as well as the complexity of the procedure. Also, an important newspaper in this law is a burden of proof, which is double here. On the one hand, it is prescribed that the burden of proving an increase in assets is with respect to the declared income of that natural person at the tax administration. On the other hand, it is now on a physical person, and not on the prosecution, as is the case in criminal proceedings, to prove that in a legitimate way it has acquired property in an act in which the increase of its assets is not in line with the reported revenues. This implies that the taxable person is under an obligation to provide evidence to the tax administration and in what way he has acquired an asset for which he has no coverage in his declared income, which would mean that each person is entitled to participate in the procedure and to declare all the circumstances under consideration. In this proposal, the most commentary was on the tax rate, which is 75%. Of course, it would be unfair for all citizens to have a lower rate when it comes to incomes for which there is no basis for obtaining the law, but I believe that all citizens should know that after this procedure there is a possibility of a continuation, i.e. the initiation of a criminal procedure, which, if found guilty, could be taken away against the property acquired as a whole. In addition, amendments and additions to the law, other than property, are added so-called expenditure on private needs of natural persons, which would mean that persons will also justify the origin of incomes that may not have been spent on acquisition of property, but rather on the set of travel, summering, wintering, expensive restaurants and other expenditure that may be even higher than the expenditure spent on acquisition of property. All the money goes to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I believe this bill has made a very big step in the fight against crime and corruption. Since the once poor country, on the verge of bankruptcy, with constant promotion, effort and work, today we have a country we can be proud of in every sense. Today we have Serbia, which is the leader of GDP growth in Europe, which is the leader in vaccination, Serbia, where all citizens are equally important, in which there are no benefits, in which we are all the same. That is why this law is important to us, and according to this, in the voting day, together with the MP group Aleksandar Vukic – I will support this bill for our children, which I belong to, along with the other bill proposals we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3196	I thank the People's MP, Olija Petrovic. As agreed, we return to the MP, Dr Mikhail Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3197	I'm gonna try to talk about what nobody said anything about. I don't want to repeat myself, but I would also like to express my little disappointment that here is not the finance minister, because I wanted to present to him some things that have not been said so far, and when it comes to public debt, when it comes to loans, which is best seen from this loan taken by the EMS of 40m euros. So, what are the terms of that loan? But to get back to the first point. If we didn't repeat ourselves, I would just say that the finance minister said – we need serious inspectors, and I'm going to say – we need professional and well-paid inspectors. This is gonna be a hell of a job to enforce this law. There will be resistance in the tax administration itself, if the tax administration does so. Someone's got to keep an eye on the law enforcement. As mistakes happened to us, so the law we passed on December 29th last year, we changed today, we didn't even start applying it, one year, made heavy technical mistakes, unauthorized mistakes. I keep thinking that someone did it unwittingly. It's gonna be the same in the implementation of this law. That is why I say, the people expect much from this law. Because it's not the people's fault for a little bit, it's the wrong thing to do. This is the great ruling party, or my party, or our party. I specifically wanted to point out to the finance minister, and I also point out to you, Minister, that you, too, are beside the tax administration, because the tax administration itself, if left to implement this, won't be able to do it unless it's helped on the side. About these loans. We're taking this loan, what the EMS is taking, the loan is 40 million. What's good is a donation of 12.8 million, which is 21.7%. Big money. Secondly, the EMS is participating with 6.15m euros. And that's good, that's 10.4%. What's wrong? It's not good that this is a loan that is available until 2025, which is paid off for 10 years with a start of five years. And what's most controversial is that fixed interest is determined after the withdrawal of each tranche. What's the interest rate going to be in 2025? We are now witnessing that the focus of monetary policy is on interest rates. The interest rates are low, everyone's in debt. It's a good thing the developing countries are in debt. I read somewhere that 270 trillion dollars is the responsibility of all the countries in the world. It's more of a duty than during World War II. And that's good now. But one moment, you have to draw a line. Interests cannot be low, interest rates will be higher and the question is now – how will it return? When we talk about public debt, the minister isn't here, it's not just about his absolute and relative amount, it's about the structure of public debt. No one's talking about it. I didn't hear anyone say that. Here, look, let's say, Japan. The relative amount of Japanese debt is 240%, but Japan pays it very lightly and softly. So public debt service is the most important, much more important than what is the absolute amount and what is the relative amount. We need to make sure we improve the structure of public debt. What's good about the Japanese? It's a good thing 95% of that debt is in their national currency. We have a public debt structure of 44.8%, 19.8% in dollars, and 27.6% in dinars. We have to take care of that structure. Our duty is about 60%. It's nothing compared to developed countries. They have three digits. EU countries, developed countries, over 100%. Here, I say, Japan 240%. The problem of public debt, the problem of the loan is his payment. This is a good loan. These are conditions more than ideal. That's where he says it's determined after every tranche. How? Euribor, which is negative, plus 0.45% margin. Euribor won't be negative, so we understand each other. This has to have its end. This task that is in the world, this must have its end. What's gonna happen, nobody knows. Interest rates must increase and for this loan someone must also be responsible. Why? Because high penalty points are foreseen if there is no realisation of this loan. The non-retired fee shall be paid 0.25%, 200 basis points are scheduled for late payment. So, very harsh conditions expect us in undefined time to repay this loan. That's why I think, when we conduct the debate, we have to take care of the structure, on the other hand, what other features of public debt are. The absolute amount and relative amount of Serbia's public debt is small, but the structure is not favourable. We need to improve it. On the other hand, the mark of public debt, whether it's direct or indirect, is very important. It's a good thing it's 92.2%, and it's an indirect 6.1%, and it's unguaranteed 1.7%. I advocate that the public debt of a state must be 100% direct in order to be controlled. I'm saying, I support this, I think this is a good thing, that we're going the right way, but what we're missing, we have good decisions, good laws, good measures, but what we're missing, is to monitor the implementation of these laws and responsibilities if there's a delay or no implementation of those laws. That's what we have to work on, Minister. If we don't do it, it won't be good. Otherwise, the path we're going, of course, has brought results. If I can get away from the subject a little bit, because I've been on the subject the whole time and about this vaccination. Everyone's saying the inoculation was carried out by eGovernment and all the merits of eGovernment. In the course of vaccination, credit goes to nurses, doctors, assistant ministers and health ministers. They took out this vaccine, and eGovernment only helped make it more efficient and more efficient. So much for me and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3198	Thank you. Given the importance of the subject, I didn't warn you that you left the topic, as you warned me the other day, but fine. As you saw, the finance minister was present while he could, and now there are other obligations, and we have currently secured the presence of two members of the government, which we thank, and they will be there by the end of the day. The next is MP Tihomir Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3199	Thank you very much. The esteemed chairman, a respected minister, respected ministers, dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens long awaited the Law establishing the origin of property. Especially for a long time, it has been discussed in political circles, most often by those who have been in opposition since the 1990s. Finally, in mid-March, he came into effect. It's twice as important. First, it leads to righteousness. It is the order and they should all pay taxes and other taxes in accordance with the actual income. Secondly, it contributes significantly to the successful fight against corruption and crime. Finally, no less important, it contributes to the achievement of the optimal budget revenues of the Republic of Serbia, and they are used for the happiness and benefit of all its citizens. Who'll be most happy when this law comes on March 12th, we'll see. Those who are now in opposition until recently have been in power and will be like all citizens under this law. I believe that many of them do not sleep peacefully, and that they will repent that they have sought him out publicly and that they have rejoiced in him. But in any case, Serbia and this law determine the status of a democratic, organised country in which the laws apply to all. When it comes to these two loan agreements with the German KfW bank, they are very important, because they are an integral part of a wider state leadership strategy on strong investment in environmental projects. Thanks to the policy of state leadership in the previous seven years, led by the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, significant results have been achieved in all fields, but particularly surprising for many economists and domestic and global in the economic field. Heavy, but necessary financial stabilisation measures have been implemented, the country's re-industry, the opening of more than 100 new factories, high employment growth achieved through tens of thousands of new jobs, achieved high GDP growth rates. What is important very much during this pandemic, a successful set of measures of support for citizens and businesses that have prevented economically negative, economic consequences of a pandemic with more than six billion euros invested in that direction. So this year's budget plans the largest funds in the recent public capital investment history. We know that many have criticised the last years of our government for no longer investing in public capital investments. Here, this year it will be about 5% of GDP at the level of central European countries. Much of these public capital investments are going into environmental protection projects. Part of these environmental protection projects are projects to improve energy efficiency. As important as it is, I'll point out, I won't take up much of your time, on the case of the city where I come from, and that's Uzice. The pleasures have a big problem with the quality of air that the Ubiquitous breathes. First of all, it's the problem of the Užica itself, so the configuration of the terrain. It is not easy to resolve, but Uzice is also one leader, probably, or one of the few city leaders in Serbia who have done the most to overcome the problem. A lot of money has been invested in gasification and most of the public institutions are connected to gas as a source, an energy source that is least harmful to the environment. There's only one part of the public sector left to be solved. The participants fought to support the Swiss government and the implementation of the project to improve energy efficiency, the total value of millions and 600,000 euros in several primary schools in Uzic and in one kindergarten. There are about 15 thousand individual households left in Uzic. That is the biggest problem and the biggest source of air pollution in our city. How did we come by that problem? When we studied well everything that can be done, we have formed a company called Užice – Gas, we have reduced the amount of funds that should be invested in the gasification, but this remains expensive for individual households. We settled it, I think we're probably the first in Serbia that we've singled out from the local pleasure budget to make significant funds for our city's energy efficiency programmes, so we've allocated about a hundred million dinars in four years. It's up to 50% for making facades, for installing carpentry, for buying boilers on gas and on pellets. The second half is given by citizens, so that out of 15,000 households, over 1,100 households have solved the problem of improving the energy efficiency of their facilities. This is important because when you have energy-efficient objects, it is less heated and there are fewer problems when protecting the environment, i.e. the quality of air. Since my colleagues have talked a lot before me about all this, there are more interested in continuing the story, I thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3200	I thank the MP, Tihomir Petkovic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Nedovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3201	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law establishing the origin of property and the Special Tax was adopted on 29.02.2020 and entered into force on 12.03.2021. The proposed changes to the legally acquired assets that are determined by a special tax and that makes a difference between the terms of the property arising from the criminal act. The change refers to giving expressions of expenditure for private needs of a natural person, i.e. for the expenditure of a natural person used for private purposes, not for the acquisition of property. a law that is very important and important to the citizens of Serbia and that will clearly tell who was in the service of the people and who was in the service of his wallet. It's very important that if someone can't prove that he's legally acquired his property, he'll lose three quarters of its value, and he might lose all his property illegally acquired. The bill will be struck by those found to have a difference of 150,000 euros in three consecutive years, between increased assets and reported revenues. When illegally acquired assets are found to exist, a solution will be made to determine a specific 75% tax on the tax base. The law introduces the so-called law. "cross-checking of property" is carried out by a special unit of the tax administration. There are penalties for non-cooperation, which means for a legal person from 500,000 dinars to 2 million dinars, for entrepreneurs from 100,000 dinars to 500,000 dinars, and for natural persons from 50,000 to 150,000 dinars. Until the arrival of this authority headed by Alexander Vukic, previous authorities announced the adoption of this law in every campaign, but such promises remained only a dead letter on paper. The closer the start date of this law gets, the more the anxiety is visible among some, as it is of course necessary to prove 619m euros, then its real estate, so the real estate of its "bat Gojko" and so on. You need to explain to an ordinary man how money can be made, and yet you expect that same common man to vote for it? Gentlemen, do you think the citizens of Serbia see no reason? A similar law was passed 17 years ago. Then two, three cases are applied, but no sublegal acts have been passed, which means there was no political will. That's why we don't know what the results are in those cases. I think the time has come for whoever entered power to explain how he earned 619m euros after leaving power? Tax inspectors will take into account both the National Bank and the register of local self-government and thus get a clear picture of how much and who in which year earned and how much he increased his assets. The protected shall not be and shall not be. Serbian citizens expect the responsible authority to pass the law and to start implementing it. They expect the final bill from all of us. The nervousness of some people precisely because of this law shows that hysteria consumes them and disrupts their minds, lies are growing. An excellent organization of conduct immunization has surprised the whole world, but some want to humiliate it. Media that are increasingly sinking in their lies and which Serbia is not in the first place, reported that on February 16th, the "Bell Expo Center" was closed, and that some of our fellow citizens received a call by a message for vaccination. The lie was quickly discovered, the date on the call was the day after, and that was February 17th. Citizens who were in front of the White Expo Center apologized, but this apology to the media did not want to be transferred because they were not interested. And that's not the first time they've had to panic and spread lies, calling for a constant threat to freedom of speech. After just two hours, the false news takes over and broadcasts "The Voice of America" under the password that there is chaos in Serbia in the vaccination process. Gentlemen, is this your way of fighting for the future of Serbia and the Serbian people? Likewise with the case of Jovanica, Serbian President Andrej Vukic was accused of direct involvement and co-operation with the suspect. NS Vice-President Miroslav Aleksic will have to pay compensation of 300,000 dinars to Andrej Vukic for his injury to honour and reputation by the Belgrade First Court. As we know, and little kids in a lie are short legs. Of course, it also hurts and bothers that their candidate cannot win a significant number of votes in the Kosovo elections, every topic wants to politicise and suddenly it is important for them to choose a patriarch. One holy act humbles, because if the person who suits them does not come, they will all try to make sense of it. A people who do not vote for them should probably be changed, and possibly the Serbian Orthodox Church. Gentlemen, your biggest problem and your enemy is hate that cannot be politics and cannot be a program. In the day for the vote, I will support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, as well as my MP group, Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3202	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3203	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with a guest from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today I will talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the designation of origin of property and special tax, with great pleasure. Why? Well, because the government of the Republic of Serbia's goal is to fight organised crime, against corruption. The most important thing for this country is that there is no crime and corruption, especially corruption. We'll fight against it, and I'm sure we'll have an epilogue very soon. What does that mean? That we'd have all those who didn't work in accordance with the law, who got rich in a hurry to be behind bars. The law is mostly technical, but the point of the law is what? So the one who did not report how he acquired his property and did not pay the tax, and has to prove that he came to, for example, a million euros or a property that costs a million euros, will be taken away from him, three quarters will be taken away and given to the state. Why the state? The country is our most beautiful Serbia, we depend on it, we look forward to it. It's incomprehensible to me that someone doesn't pay taxes. Imagine not paying taxes to the state, so how do you think we make highways, schools, hospitals, how do you think we'd deal with Kovid if there wasn't money in the budget, how do you think we're giving social benefits? The third time we've helped people, and it takes a hundred times to help. Incredibly or truthfully, I find it incomprehensible that in just a few years someone could have secured a 619m-euro income for themselves. You know what 619m euros is? That's about three-quarters of the Moravia Corridor, which is 110km where half a million people live. We know who it was, Dragan Gilas, who reported when he came to power from the Czech Republic that he had only 40,000 euros, that he had one "Sab" car and that he had a wife's apartment or a house. Today, 35 apartments, taxingly listed, that's not what I'm saying, says the "Objectivtiv" portal, today 619m euros. Well, we could have built so many hospitals, schools, kindergartens, and he left the city a debt when he was no longer in office for a billion and 118m euros. People, a billion and 118m euros. We're only 10 years from now, here's 11 years in fact much less, I'm from Voždovac, we won there in 2010, and at the republican level in 2012, so there's not even 10 years, we've managed to split the debt, to pay off all his debts, to build 350km of highways, to make hospitals, to make kindergartens, to modernise education in terms of full school renovation. Our schools were completely abandoned, as were the hospitals. Let's make two new hospitals during Kovid to help people who are sick and thank them this time. I'm out of the subject, but just five seconds, all doctors, nurses, nonmedical staff, wonderful people. I'm going to tax this gentleman what and how, because I'm just saying about that money he could have done a lot of things, and besides, there's going to be a tax payment, so we're going to see. What's most important for SNS is zero tolerance to corruption. No one is protected, no public officials, no tycoons, no one and that's great. What's going on with e.g. The bridge on Ada that cost 400m euros. In France, 200m euros cost a double-long bridge and a wider bridge. Where's the $200 million coming from, but now we'll see. That's what I'm going to do, and I'm just gonna have to for the sake of the citizens, and people are wondering how you're not in power, thinking about Gilas and his, so people, embezzlement to embezzlement. Zivkovic took half a million credits, never returned. Dulic, "Nuba" nothing, ate the cat. The late Verica Baraq talked about it. No one had the strength to oppose crime, corruption, this is now the first time the government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Vukic is its president. What happened to the bridge on Ada that costs 400m euros, without access. We later paid for it and did it. Key people in the affair of the century by taking a million-dollar racket from bridge performers, that's not what I'm saying, that's what the lens portal says, people have done in detail, as were the apartments, so it's taxing anywhere any apartment exists and how it exists, meaning taking a million-dollar racket from bridge contractors on the Adi are Dragan Djilas, his best man Dragan Jesic, controversial businessman Ryan Rajičić and former project implementation unit director at the Building Land Directorate and Belgrade building Zoran Rubinjoni, reveals the portal. A foreign businessman who performed a responsible function in the consortium, consisted of three companies, one Slovenian, one Austrian and one German, and said that city official Zoran Rubinjoni met personally with businessmen who were in this consortium and transferred the oral orders of Gilas to the funds for alleged consulting during the construction of the bridge on Adi to the Greek company Sie Komerschl, the only legal representative who was then, the only one. Mr. Rajacic has been in very intense communication with Dragan Jesic, the godfather of Dragan Gilas at this time. If the fact that Gilas was the head of Rubinioni is connected, and his godfather Jesic worked intensively with Rajačić, the money flows taken from our consortium are clear, the speaker said. It's verifiable, says the portal. Unfortunately, it is very interesting that the company in Greece led by Rajicic was founded in 2006, only after an ideal solution for building the bridge on Ada was adopted, interesting. Also, the Greek firm Sie, which means "the seal", they sealed Serbia, if Aleksandar Vukic didn't come, would be a miracle, we would probably be underground right now, we were in front of bankruptcy anyway. I'm going to finish this, and I'm going to do something about public enterprises, and I just can't take it without saying it. Also, the company Sie Komschl is the daughter of a company with the same-named Panama company known for tax haven and where companies are founded mainly by those who want to avoid paying taxes in their home countries. It's a shame, but it's the way it is. Another fact is surprising when it comes to the company Sie Komschl and its consulting service for the bridge on Ada. In fact, this company does not have any construction jobs in its portfolio but is registered as a company to provide services to a commercial and commercial agent in the sale of ships and spare parts. And that's what's happening. The final result of this joint venture, according to our speaker, is that man has discovered, simply cannot live with it, with the invoice delivered and contract to the Greek company to pay 2.5m euros for alleged consulting services. Also, the talker states that this is only one transaction from many. So, my dears, the affair after the affair is different affairs, I hope that very soon, as the law goes into effect in two months, it will come out in two months, and the one who doesn't respect the law will return the money and be behind bars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3204	I thank the MP Ljiljana Malusic. The word has been issued by MP Milan Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3205	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected minister, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected fellow citizens today, we are discussing an extremely important law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Origin of Assets and Special Tax, the Law in such important because our country, our citizens, have very bad experiences from the first and early second decade of the 21st century when some tycoon members of the former regime first of all through robbery privatisations, through various malfeasances and other suspicious activities at the expense of the Serbian state, acquired huge capital at the expense of citizens. I therefore believe that this law is necessary for our country, that it is the right time for its adoption, because by adopting it, we will round up the anti-corruption strategy, the fight against organised crime initiated by President Vukic. What's very significant is that this law is subject to the verification of the property of all persons without exception, so from former officials to current officials, tycoon, and so on. That is, if this property is found to be illegally acquired, the 75% tax base will be applied, or such a person will lose 3/4 of its assets and potentially and overall, which is good. When the SNS took responsibility for Serbia's leadership in 2012, we found a country where tycoons wondered about everything, we found a country where members, members of the former regime, spent time in responsible state functions instead of using it to benefit the citizens, used it for personal gain. We found a country with poor citizens on the verge of existence. Often in communication with citizens I listened to remarks, or questions – how did Dragan Gilas get so much money, where did Dragan Gilasu get so much property? How, then, did the state authorities allow him to be rich at the expense of the state and the citizens? The answer is very simple, the former regime was tailoring the state on its own so that they could get rich, rob, fill their pockets. Serbian citizens no longer want to live in such a state. In 2012, they said no to that regime. Citizens want to live in a decent Serbia where they will live honestly and with dignity from their work. So years ago, from cycle to cycle, they give huge support to SNS and Alexander Vukic. By adopting this law our state authorities, our tax authorities will have more instruments to examine all suspicious assets of various tycoons, former, current officials, etc. To see, for example, that with five companies in the Czech Republic, the citizens of Serbia earn 70 and change thousands of euros, and then suddenly they become very successful, very capable, and in ten years they gain hundreds of millions of euros. Of course, with one extenuating, tiny circumstance. For those ten years, he performed the functions of the so-called chief. The People's Offices of the President of the Republic, Minister, Mayor of Belgrade. Also, by adopting this law, it prevented any new Dragan Gilas, which at the expense of the state and citizens, therefore, from ever showing up in Serbia again, from acquiring 619m euros. Never again do such people appear, such as former regime people who, for example, have provided themselves with tens of millions of euros from their aunt's couch for three, four years of ministry. We from the SNS will continue to follow, we will continue to implement President Alexander Vukic's policy, because this policy is a guarantee of a uncompromising fight against corruption and organised crime. This law I believe today is just a step in further expanding the democratic capacity of our country and our society. I will remind you that Alexander Vukic, of the state that was on the verge of bankruptcy, built a state with the highest economic growth in Europe. From the state where the tycoons wondered about everything, built, formed a state where no one is above the law, in which there are no protected ones. Well, that obviously bothers some people. It bothers members of the former regime's work with Dragan Gilas, as hundreds of millions of euros are not enough. They want to return to power again, continue with the work they broke up in 2012. But apparently without a choice, because they know they don't have the support of citizens, they know that Serbian citizens don't want them. That is why they apply the most odious, ground-floor methods of Satanizing the president of the Republic and his family, generating various false affairs thus creating a legitimate target from the president and his family. As a logical trail of events, following such lies, inventions that are unmistakably repeated from day to day, operational data, operational information says President Vukic was the target of individual criminal clans where sniper weapons were seized. Fortunately for us, thanks to the hard work of previous years of the Serbian government, the president, the state is today stronger than any criminal group. We proved that a few weeks ago when the most organised and powerful criminal group in the Balkans was broken and arrested. Parts of the former regime, and today's opposition are also troubled by the fact that Serbia is being talked and written about in the whole world these days, as a country where vaccination is being carried out successfully, so Serbia by the number of vaccinated other countries in Europe, right behind the UK, and the first by number of revaccinated. When there is a huge shortage in the whole world, when most, the vast majority of countries have a problem getting vaccines, when in our region most countries have not vaccinated a single citizen, when thousands of citizens in Croatia occupy the Russian embassy asking for Russian Sputnik V vaccines to be delivered to Croatia, our citizens have the opportunity to choose between four vaccines after the arrival of 150,000 Astra Zeneka vaccines yesterday. So he fights for his country, so he fights for the citizens, so he fights for the health of his citizens, for the economy, and not as they do Dragan Gilas and his clicks, by filling his pockets, by suing Tanja Fajon, by lying to his country abroad. At the very end, like all my colleagues, I will be happy to support this law, because it is an important step towards Serbia's modernisation, towards the construction of Serbia, where there are no protected ones, at which the corruption rate is reduced to a minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3206	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Nevena Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3207	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with a co-worker, respected co-workers and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the origin of property and the specific tax and practically any amendments contained in this proposal of the law are aimed at ensuring more effective and effective application of the law itself. This is the law we've been waiting for for for a long time, almost two decades. The previous government is the first government to come out with a concrete draft of this law. What I'm particularly proud of is that this law, as well as a dozen other laws we've already talked about and we're just going to talk about just an indication of SNS' determination to oppose corruption. I am sure that this law should have been passed before, especially because of this negative atmosphere created in society when we bid on the subject of who is corrupt and who is not and when individuals are targeted as corrupt. We're in a situation where individuals are said to have not acquired their property in a legal way, and essentially not. What is very important is that this law is applied without any selectivity, so it applies to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We can all be on the verge of one of these laws. But if we were to look at the case of politicians and maybe the easiest way to see what is the subject of one of these laws, on the one hand, you have people who have come into this policy business with, say, one real estate, so one apartment and get out of this business with that same apartment. And there are those who in just a few years spent in some responsible and leading positions in the country not only gained dozens of apartments, but also gained revenue of over half a million euros. It's exactly what's the subject of one of these laws, to examine those assets that there are indications that it's not acquired in a fair way and that it's not proportional to income. If we report to the competent state authority, such as the Tax Administration or the Anti-Corruption Agency, on the one hand that we have income in the right amount, and on the other hand we own an asset that is not proportional to these declared revenues, so we have villas in the most luxurious parts of the city, so individuals have apartments, even dozens of apartments, and they have the most luxurious cars, and that is exactly what should be subject to one of these laws. This is a law that strengthens the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and what is particularly important is that it contributes adequate funds to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Taxation of assets whose origin is practically unproven, justify legal revenues essentially constitutes a powerful means in the fight against corruption. Our goal is to create in Serbia a strong and efficient anti-corruption mechanism that practically did not exist until 2012. Even what existed was at least defied. Our goal is to create a strong and strong anti-corruption mechanism. In the interest of those who created the state system by 2012, it is that they are inefficient and that they are not fighting corruption. We have a dozen suspicious situations. So, of course, there is a suspicious background for millions of revenues paid to the account of an NGO called "The Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development" founded by Vuk Jeremic. The organisation's own name says "The Centre for International Co-operation", but the question arises as to who he was working with. He co-operated with criminals, such as Patrick Hoe, who was rightly convicted of money laundering and corruption or his friend Lozoi, who is burdened with various financial malfeasances, such as tax fraud and bribery. That's exactly what the top financials of the two organizations mentioned were. So how will Dragan Gilas explain that he owns 25m euros in real estate, for which he admitted to owning them? So yesterday we heard that in 2005 he made money, as he says - made money, and in 2004 he entered politics. So we heard he was washing the windows. Now the question is, exactly what was he washing and how much of that window should be washed to get just those 25 million he admitted to owning. Among other things, if he has already acquired everything, he says, in a legal way, so why is he and his brother transferring fivem euros to Switzerland. And you don't have to be there either. I don't know what kind of tax expert they are, so you realize that the essence of such an action is essentially a detachment of the subject from the origin of that money and property, because basically what they serve is a transfer of ownership from one person to another and a transfer of property from one person to another. Well, that's the kind of situation we needed one of these laws. This is a very delicate and sensitive subject and we needed political courage and political will to pass one of these laws. President Aleksandar Vukic has just shown that he has both the will and the courage and has already repeatedly pointed out that he wants to be the first on that list of persons whose property will be questioned, the origin of the property to be determined. I must remind all of you of all the noise that occurred in July last year when the Ministry of Money Laundering Prevention Board, which operates at the Ministry of Finance, announced the control of financial operations and transactions of individual organisations, institutions and individuals. There was all this hysteria and noise that it was a target of individuals, as it was intimidation, and people were practically just doing their job and doing the usual activities that they normally had in their job description. I now believe that this law will not only strengthen our tax system, but create a mechanism in which citizens of the Republic of Serbia feel justice, where abuses will be prevented, and that is exactly what we have been working on since 2012. I personally believe that it is the essence of such a law that Serbian citizens feel benefits, and it certainly will because we will have a greater inflow into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so we will have a larger amount of money that we can continue to work with and build Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3208	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3209	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, after such inspiring speeches by my younger colleagues from the SNS, I have only a few next sentences to say that these explanations and elaborates concerning the uncompromising and unfavourable fight against corruption and organised crime which, in 2014 began then, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic that it resulted today, on today, the SNS has a 60.3% rating. This is in my hands the latest research by Factor Plus. This suggests how much trust the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are in Aleksandr Vukic, in the SNS and all that we do in the area of fighting for better Serbia, fighting for economic reforms, for progress and for better life and prosperity of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also, because of our citizens and my colleagues here in the National Assembly, I would like to say and give a few more important information so that, in fact, all citizens can see how much the people of the Republic of Serbia appreciate what is called a traffic light, values results, appreciates something that is specifically done for their lives, so also for improving the lives of citizens and their families. In fact, the question is how do you assess the plan and carry out the vaccination against Kovid 19 in Serbia 64% of citizens responded with excellent, 16% with very good, with good 11%. Ninety-one percent of citizens have assessed with very, very positive assessments what Vucic, our party and the government of the Republic of Serbia have done on the protection of the security and protection of the health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Another very important piece of information for our citizens. Who, in your opinion, is the most responsible for successful vaccination in Serbia – the EU 2%, Russia 3%, China 11%, President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic 60%. I think I have said enough about how much citizens have actually grown up politically and how important it is that we follow what President Vukic defined in 2014 as a policy that needs to be measured, whose results should be seen and whose results should be reflected in the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, their better life, their greater purchasing power and their greater possibilities, so on the choice of their own and of course their families. What is very important is the same thing to say, when we talk about paying taxes, about improving the work of the Tax Administration, but also about this very important proposal for a law on the origin of property. It's actually, as far as we can see, the most significant political will. This has been shown by examples in the previous period, so you have one situation from 2000 to 2012 of a complete economic, social, health, educational collapse in our country that actually happened precisely because of the huge corruption and the definition of corruption by political authorities as mainstreams, as a way of life. It was dictated by political authorities, by the government then, by the members of the government, by the members of parliament, by those who led the majority of the parliament at the time, who are awakening, and I will give you some very important information to help the citizens understand what this is really about. By 2007, you had this privatisation which was also the subject of the interest of the European Parliament and the European Commission. Imagine more than 2,000 companies from 2000 to 2007 were sold for two billion euros, and only one Mobtel was sold for about a billion and 500m euros in 2006. Only one firm was privatised for 1.5 billion, and 2,000 others who had been privatised to do so had agreed on about two billion euros in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It says enough about how much the political elite at the time cared about the interests of citizens, cared for the state interest, which is actually to preserve the substance, to preserve the foundation of what is important for general social development, which is economics, these are economic branches, these are natural resources. What is one of the greatest results of these governments and what the SNS has done in the previous period is that it has done much to develop entrepreneurship, to encourage entrepreneurship and the development of the private sector in our country, to liberalise the market, to create market conditions and opportunities, therefore equal opportunities for all, to create a healthy competition between players on the market. This led to Serbia not only being the most interested in investing in this part of Europe today, but also, according to the various ratings of relevant world organisations, including the World Bank and the IMF, as well as magazines such as "Forms", such as "Blumberg" represents a country worth investing in, which is very, very favourable in the long term, in which to invest. This resulted in last year, as the finance minister said almost, not one, despite Kovid, no foreign investor gave up investing in Serbia. You can imagine the importance of what President Aleksandar Vucic has done in terms of immunisation, how important it is that Serbia has so far received and bought almost two million vaccines and what, at some point, how much experts and crisis staff are assessing, one month and a half of the following days, we can say that our population is relatively protected and that we can go there at the end of March, in early April with full gas to go into economic development and create added value, to return and to create new jobs, new potentials and new opportunities for the growth of our GDP. What does that mean? This means salary growth in both the private and public sectors, which means pension growth. Despite this crisis caused by the covidation of the state, as far as possible, precisely because of this household policy and the management of the state register and the state budget in a high-quality, rational and efficient way to reward health workers on several occasions, to increase profits in the health sector, to increase profits and reward educational workers, to say and tell those people who were on the front line in the fight against the Coronus virus, who protected us here in parliament, our parents, pensioners, to say that we care about them and to say that we will continue to work even harder, but that in the right way we invest in infrastructure, we invest in highways, we invest in railways, that we will create regional co-operation, regional economic integration, and only from the interests of this country and this people. Serbia now has a chance to become a long-term economic leader in the region. It is in our interest that others in the region follow us because Serbia today and our economy is as strong as all the economies of the Western Balkan countries combined. Serbia today attracts more foreign direct investment than all Western Balkan countries combined. Well, do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's an accident? It is the results of a hard work. I remind you, there is my colleague Veroljub Arsic, 2013, the beginning of the fight, the fierce fight against corruption, the Law on Public Procurement. He may not be perfect, but he seemed to anyone who thought of trying to fool the state, trying to get some funding out of this budget that wasn't intended, to ask themselves well, if he could do it, if it was allowed. With the SNS, this government, these majority in parliament, it was neither, nor it was, nor will it be absolutely allowed. We're going to fight it 100%, and we're going to fight it against such anomalies. Of course, it's hard, it's almost impossible to root out corruption in full capacity, but this is big enough and strong enough message and that message was sent by the first president of our country, Mr. Vukic, that he will be the first to be subjected to this Law on the Origin of Assets, to be fully open, to check everything he has and of course all the officials of the leading and greatest parties in this country. We have shown in several previous years that when it comes to justice, when it comes to the state, when it comes to national interests, we are absolutely not interested in whether any president of the municipality of the Serbian Progressive Party or any other party, whether he is the director of any public enterprise from our party or any other party or any other option, we are interested in whether he is honestly doing business in the interests of these citizens, because we are not helping and creating conditions for the development of the private sector and private initiative and enterprise to get rich and that the directors of public enterprises and we here, the MPs and those who have the state property have been able to increase their property. We are here, as are ministers, the very word ministers, in translation means to serve, we are here to serve the people, we are here to serve the citizens, not to increase our wealth. We need to increase our wealth, and we encourage it, in the free market, through business development, through the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, through the promotion of our abilities, qualifications and our skills. How much we change, in fact, the perception of what happens in Serbia in 2021, also says that the values that we cultivate as a majority, as a party work, order, discipline, results, something that is measurable, are something that can be seen in every citizen's everyday life. It's a new building, it's a new hospital, it's a new clinical center, it's a lot of things that this government, which this government has done and done only for the past few years, and what the previous ones haven't even been able to begin. There's one of our colleagues, or minister, who says, when it comes to hospitals and health institutions, I think it's the Loncar Minister when he says it, and he's right that they weren't able to even linoleum in the elevator to replace, let alone replace the elevators, let alone renovate, freshen up a building or God forbid, build a hospital. Why? Because that's why knowledge is needed, because education is needed, because it takes the money you have, or who you're in charge of, or on the domestic or foreign market, to invest it in the best possible and most rational way possible, but you can't make a hospital and build a house for you, a sister, a sister, a brother or any other member of your family, because you think that the state belongs to you. Then the same ones come to you and say that we live here in what's-his-name. the captive state or "capture state", the same ones who captured this country and used the abundant resources of this country and the wealth of this country, so all the happiness of Vukic came in 2012 and saved this country from total economic collapse and collapse. All those who are rich in the coat of arms of this people have entered politics and enter politics today and participate in political life in order to protect their economic interests and all of them, look, analyze, there is the Minister of Justice, all of them have created their million-dollar wealth from these opposition first boycott leaders, through some consulting, through some services, no one has produced this chair, no one has produced anything in life, sold on the free market, earned some profit. No one has shown a business example of how it is done, as it is worth a million, two, ten or 519m euros. No, but she gave someone the Catarska Embassy in Berlin 200 thousand euros because he advised something nice. There is no one who advises the cataract sheik, but some of them from here such a politician as the former Wolf Jeremic. He sold his knowledge, his innovation for $200,000 or euros, you won't take me for harm, I'm not sure what it's about. In doing so, having no regard or need to justify or justify how they came to that money, and then they compare themselves with Vukić, who, as he entered politics and how he entered and became the first vice president of the government in 2012, I think that the economic situation may be even weaker for him than it was then and after nine years. Why? Because Vukic deals with the state, because Vukic deals with Kosovo and Metohija, because you cannot build houses, castles, castles, to lead entire families by private planes, by various white world destinations, and to defend Kosovo and Metohija, to defend the Serbian people, to defend the religious heritage of our people in Kosovo and Metohija, you cannot defend the Republic of Serbia, you cannot defend the Serbs in Macedonia, their interests, by not doing anything, and then you say – Vukic works much. It's not normal, it works 15 or 16 hours a day. Well, he's here to work. His work led 18 countries to recognise or suspend recognition in just a year and a half. Kosovo, on their part and to reduce the number of countries to below one half of those they recognise, so-called. Kosovo to the United Nations. None of these people have made one Nordeus, these are the people we worship, these are the heroes of this country, those who have succeeded here in these conditions to make their own companies, to make their products, to offer them to the domestic, regional, foreign market, to sell them and the rest here in Serbia, like the rest of Nordeus, like many others here who are engaged in agricultural production and many other jobs and we will continue to encourage them and I think they are heroes of this country, because they are hiring, they are paying taxes, and we will continue to try to make a better legal framework for them, in order to be more relaxed about taxes, as far as the tax process itself is concerned, there are no negotiations, I guess, but we will not allow the situation to come to the tax evaluation by increasing taxes. We don't want this country's success to be on the verge of taking off its skin from honest privates, honest businessmen, owners of small companies, family firms, we're going to help them, as we've been doing now, we're going to encourage them and that's how this country is run. That's how we're gonna behave. That's the policy led by the president, Alexander Vukic. When it comes to the attitude of the people, it's not just my attitude and my esteemed colleagues here, we saw it in this research that I presented today. I think that with support we will only be able to move forward, given that, I hope, since April this year, we are waiting for a better, more beretish year, with, of course, all that will help Serbia to be economically stronger and more geopolitically positioned than in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3210	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dusan Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3211	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The citizens of Serbia for 20 years and more are waiting for one such law that will systematically and functionally deal with corruption and crime in our society. The most frequently mentioned by those who ruled from 2000 to 2012, mostly mentioned him during the campaign, in their television debates, and when the campaigns ended, less and less would be talked about the law. Fortunately, in 2012, the people changed power after October 5th, and brought to power the Serbian Progressive Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3212	Excuse me, People's Parliament, People's MPs, I beg your silence, you deconcentrate a young colleague and me. If you have something to discuss, you can go ahead. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3213	Citizens replaced those who spent 12 years just talking about the Property Origin Act, which for 12 years carried out robbery privatisations, who systematically destroyed all state institutions in our country and established a new authority that systematically cared about the budget and its citizens. They say we're too late to pass these laws. They're looking for any reason to challenge it, but in order to make one of these laws functional, we need first to build the institutions that have collapsed and restore the integrity of our government and our state, to strengthen the institutions that deal with tax administration and finance. What followed was a number of concrete examples of crime and corruption in our country, and so did this law that was passed a year ago. Of course, today there is a supplement, where we want to be more efficient and separate those who have acquired enormous wealth through criminal activities from those who have avoided some tax and economic taxes and thus created a certain property benefit, colleagues said, which amounted to over 150 thousand euros in continuity of three years, that they could simply have the opportunity to prove them. If that money is obtained legally, it won't have any problems. The honest and hardworking people in this country have no reason to fear this law except those who have sinned against it and those who have become rich overnight. These days are also the topic of the current law by opposition politicians, only to be criticised more and more. We had opportunities, a colleague said, last night, that we were looking at the opposition media of former Mayor Dragan Gilas trying to justify himself and giving us advice on how to make money in Serbia, so he said that after some appointments in London, where he cleaned windows and mirrors, he came to Serbia and 2004, without his will, he made a fortune, and suddenly in 2005, he made a fortune by saying that one of the few who at that time knew that he was counting. And basically, he traded for seconds public service, bought it at a bargain price, sold it 20 times more, and that's some first money, and then you heard how much real estate, millions and all the other revenues followed. There's the folk. Don't ask me just for the first million. Well, this law will just ask every Serbian citizen where he got the first million or anything he illegally acquired to prove it. If he cannot prove the origin of the property, of course, the state will confiscate it, an appropriate criminal suit will be filed against him and the state will clearly show that there is no untouchable. And for those who have committed certain economic violations, they will be able to prove it in the process. If they cannot prove the origin of the property, they will pay 75% of that value and in this way we will fill the budget, because all of their activities avoiding tax payments and paying all the fees that follow from business activities have damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget and its end-users, so all citizens of this Serbia. That's why in the voting day, I will support this change, because it essentially makes the difference between these tycoons, politicians, mobsters and all those who have dared to be stronger than the state, but it will introduce order on the market, that one game that businesses are running today is correct and collegiate, because it's not fair for someone to hold a trade shop and pay all taxes and taxes on goods, and that someone through social networks or in any other way does sell goods, makes revenues without paying the state tax. That's what this law defines. Once again, there's no reason for honest citizens to be afraid of this law. It should be ignored by those who have sinned against the law and there is no reason for them to seek evidence and some inadequacy to this law, but it is time for them to start looking for lawyers and to prepare themselves. And they don't have anything to justify to the citizens on TV shows that they've reached the first million, they've been ruled by the citizens in the election. Let them save it for the competent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3214	I thank Parliamentarian Dusan Radojevic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3215	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on the importance of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Origin of Assets and on the special tax of my fellow MPs said a lot in the previous discussion. I will just say, when it comes to this bill, that I personally absolutely support the adoption of this law that should have been passed long ago and the application of this law, because I believe that fighting crime and corruption is the basis for the smooth functioning of the state and its progress. However, on the agenda of today's session, I consider two very important agreements, i.e. a proposal for a law relating to the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank under the responsibility of the "Electro Network of Serbia", which refers to the Regional Programme for Energy Efficiency in the Transit System and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the German Development Bank for the Project "Energy in Public Use Buildings and Renewable Energy Sources in the Remote Heating Sector – Greening of the Public Sector". In fact, energy efficiency, environmental protection, renewable energy production, as well as climate change, are topics that have been told a lot over the last few years, with which our government and the restoring ministries attach great importance. The government of the Republic of Serbia, by adopting the Law on Effective Use of Electricity in 2013 and by launching the third National Energy Efficiency Action Plan in 2017, has shown that rational electricity consumption is important both from the aspect of financial savings and from the aspect of saving the energy itself that is wasted in vain. It is known that electricity and heat are crumbling in Serbia and that we spend it four times the EU's average. Practically, we're throwing away the annual production of a thermal power plant. One of Serbia's largest energy consumers is private and public buildings, with a share of 45% of final energy consumption, because of 2.2 million private and 25,000 public buildings, only 5% of them were built after 1992, so that a large percentage of Serbia's construction fund does not comply with modern energy standards. There is a strong potential for energy savings and cost reduction in all public facilities, especially in hospitals, which have a large and constant consumption of electricity throughout 24 hours 365 days a year. In particular, I would also mention a 50m-euro loan relating to the VMA in Belgrade, which started in 1982, and in which investment is not invested much, and there are great potentials in saving energy and it is primarily necessary to work to improve technical systems and installations in VMA. It is announced for the first time that a specific energy efficiency law is being adopted, which provides for the establishment of an energy efficiency fund and administration within the ministry. The existing energy efficiency fund is not great. It brings out around 500 million dinars, which, by government's decision, will be used in 2021 for energy efficiency, which should be achieved through the renovation of old buildings, but also through the use of better insulation materials and the construction of new ones. I also want to point out on this occasion, to commend, and also to encourage concrete moves from the city administration of the town of Užica, from which I come, regarding the granting of energy efficiency subsidies from the city's budget to natural persons, supported by the citizens of Užica. The subsidies relate to the purchase of gas boilers, the isolation of residential houses and the replacement of carpentry. In the past few years, significant funds have been allocated for these purposes that have helped citizens to significantly reduce the use of heat, and also contribute to the conservation of the environment, to reducing the pollution with which our city of Užice has major problems. As for the Energy Development Strategy by 2025, energy efficiency and greater use of renewable energy will be a priority for the government of the Republic of Serbia. For all these reasons and what is said and what is very important and important for the functioning of the state in the future for financial savings, in the day for the vote of the Serbian People's Party's MPs, we will vote for all proposed laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3216	I thank the People's MP Snow White Petrovic. The word is made by the People's MP Janko Langura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3217	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the first item of the agenda is concerned, I fully support the law and all the proposals concerning the designation of origin of property, because I believe that we as public officials must at any time be prepared for our citizens to justify our property, of course, if we have it. We're all aware that there are people everywhere who can't justify the origin of their property. Most of these people, unfortunately, are in politics or those who call themselves politicians, so I am also happy to look at all these politicians as they are in fear these days of this law and as they try to obstruct them in all ways. It is obvious today that there is a trio of panic for the destruction of Serbia. The trio, of course, consists of Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradović and Vuk Jeremic. They are panicking because they will now have to explain to the citizens how it is possible that after someone arrives at power overnight to become a multimillionaire, in euros, of course, and how it is possible that someone who boasts that before entering politics had about 70,000 euros in savings, today there are more than 619m euros in their accounts. Today this same Dragan Gilas, we could see, trying to justify ourselves how he used to, to earn some money, wash windows. Our esteemed colleague Sandra Christmas responded nicely to him – you did not wash the windows, but, thieves, you washed only money. If we look at the activities of that same tycoon, Dragan Gilas, in the last 10 years, we'll see that his sudden rise begins at the arrival of this famous, imaginary office director of the country's president's office for relations with the people. We are all aware that the only relationship with the people who are Dragan Gilas had was how to kidnap the people with as much money as possible. Then, Dragan Gilas comes to the post of Minister for the National Investment Plan. The only investments he and his yellow tycoon regime made were those investments that brought them personal benefits and that were poured directly into their pockets. The beginning of the end of the political career of Dragan Gilas begins at the arrival of Belgrade mayor and then the money he took from our citizens is no longer measured by hundreds of thousands of euros, no, that money has been measured since hundreds of millions of euros. And I'm wondering if there's a way to explain to the citizens this withdrawal of their money? Is there any way to explain to the citizens why and why they and their families lost their jobs? Is there any way to explain to Serbian citizens who and why they were left without a roof over their heads, without a better future, in which they were always lied by Dragan Gilas and all of their former tycoonic yellow regime? I wonder, too, is there a way for Gojko and Dragan Gilas to explain to our citizens, and I really hope after this law and the competent state institutions, how can it be possible to own thousands of square meters in real estate? I will read to you, although we have already talked about it, I will read to you only two of the smallest properties owned by the Gilas brothers, and this is an apartment in Svetozar Marković of 105 square meters, apartment in Jevrem Grujic of 160 square meters, and I will repeat, these are the two least properties owned by the Gilas brothers. We all know very well that they have over 20. We all know very well, too, that those in their possession, despite the business spaces that they have, they have a lot of places, and it's also very interesting, they have a lot of companies that make their profits on our country's territory, and they pay taxes in some other countries. So, as a real example, we have both tycoon television N1 and Nova S, which works within the United Media Group, which pay their taxes in Luxembourg. You know, these two tycoon televisions are the main weapon in the hands of Dragan Gilas, in his quest to bring down Alexander Vukic, of course, by violent destruction, in his quest to kill Alexander Vukic. They themselves, we could see, boasting that two tycoons and two best friends, tycoon Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak have invested over a billion euros in these two televisions so far, and that they are not planning to stop, they want to invest so much, of course, again, with one goal only. Those on those TVs, on their main weapon, have three impact needles, as they represent them. For me, it's just three political puppets in the hands of Dragan Gilas, so we have one journalist with a bought diploma, who's called, don't blame me if I'm wrong, I think Kesic, who, on his political show every day, is trying to jeopardize the life of President Vukic and his family. Then, we also have one political pawn, Dragan Djilas Ivan Ivanovic, who, we have already spoken, is represented as fit for him, if he is in Croatia, then the Croatian is in his luxury apartment in Rovinj, if not, if he is in Serbia, then he regrets the victims of "Storms", even though he knows that he celebrates the anniversary of "Storms" along with the Croats. We have what's particularly interesting, one call an independent journalist, although nothing about her is independent, as well as in this so-called. The independent tycoon television, Mrs. Bećkovic, who no less or less, but when Dragan Gilas is visiting her on the show, believe it or not, Dragan Gilas asks her questions. Also, we've had a chance to see, more specifically, the work of Dragan and Gok Gilas. What exactly happened? Dragan Gilas opened his new company called in Podgorica, so you won't mind me, I don't know, because it's not in our language, whether "Oble" or "Ubl" or whatever, because as it is on these TVs, there's nothing Serbian about Dragan Gilas. He opened the company and after a few days, his brother Gojko opened his daughter's company here in Belgrade, at the Savawedding, with only one task, that the company's daughter is making a profit. Of course, in this, as in many other cases, the biggest loss is our state of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because profits will not flow into the budget, more specifically taxes will not be poured into the Republic of Serbia's budget, but taxes will come out of our country and will be paid to the company in Podgorica. After the discovery of this affair, Gojko Gilas allegedly withdraws from the job, although if you enter the official website of their company, you can see that as an official contact a person still stands the name Gojko Gilas. Of course, we'll see a lot more about the Gilas brothers, and when the Dutch financial intelligence department completes an investigation into the malfeasances committed by Dragan Gilas and his chief financier and best friend Dragan Solak, as regards the sale of business facilities. Now the same tycoon Dragan Gilas, with the help of his tycoon financiers and great support from his great friend Vuk Jeremic, repeatedly proven traitor of our country, our Serbia and the man whom the closest associates are from, we have seen, and Patrick Hoa, who has been arrested for the world's greatest affairs and the world's greatest malfeasances, are trying in every way to come to power. Of course, that yellow tycoon Dragan Gilas and the rest of the tycoon-hoof cartel from the former regime have no courage to go to the polls, and I'll remind you that the censorship is at never lower 3%, they don't have the courage to go to the elections, but they want to go to power without a choice, in whatever way, by blackmail or violence on the streets, certainly democratic elections are of no interest to them, because no one votes for such people. One of the attempts at such a thing is also reflected in their absurd demands to get some nakarad media editing ministry. They want them to be able to run public enterprises otherwise they will reach for what they best know, which is violence, it's breaking and burning institutions, it's beating up journalists, it's beating up police, it's beating up MPs, and that's not democracy, gentlemen, and that's not what Serbian citizens want. In previous elections, Serbian citizens have shown that they give plebiscite support to Alexander Vukic. A decent Serbia will not stand before blackmail and violence. Serbian citizens have had enough terror by the tycoon thief's yellow cartel. Thank you. Long live decent Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3218	The People's Messenger Gojko Palalic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3219	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the previous period when it comes to energy efficiency, we have adopted key legislative acts primarily aimed at establishing a balance between improving energy savings and spending, and this is certainly important to highlight the adoption of the Law on More Effective Energy Use, as well as the launch of the Third National Energy Efficiency Action Plan, which is also aimed at reducing final energy consumption. Today, we also have a proposal for a law to confirm the loan agreement between the German Development Bank and the Republic of Serbia for a project of energy efficiency in buildings of public purpose and renewable energy sources in the district heating sector, i.e. the greening of the public sector. The project primarily aims to improve its technical and financial sustainability, which is the largest hospital in Serbia, but is also one of the largest hospitals in Europe and finally after 38 years of work, because its technical installations and distribution systems are at the end of the lifetime. Through the project, the main focus will be to restore inefficient boilers, distribution systems for heating and cooling, but outdated systems for automation of the entire building. However, today I want to respond to more and more frequent attacks by the opposition just when it comes to investing in the energy sector, namely improving energy efficiency, because lately I have heard a lot of arbitrary and incorrect information. Now I don't know whether it's ignorance or misinformation, but the statements of certain opposition representatives are pointless, hypocritical and citizens should know that such statements are only for the collection of cheap political points. These attacks, when we talk about the case, about Novi Sad, are seen through attacks on the reconstructions of SPENS, i.e. the Sport and Business Centre "Vojvodina", which, as well as the "Sava Center" in Belgrade, but also as the Military Academy that we are talking about today, is an object that has long been overcome in terms of energy efficiency, because it has not been invested in it for decades. So we have a statement from the chairman of the City Board of DS in Novi Sad, Veljko Krstonosic, who says: "Now the closed pool at the Sport Business Centre of Vojvodina is so damaged after an expensive reshuffle that it will have to be real again, and the city government is trying to hide it from the citizens of Novi Sad and the entire public. “ First of all, the mayor of Novi Sad Milos Vucevic has nothing to hide, because behind the mayor and the leader of the responsible SNS policy best say results. Why should we hide in Novi Sad the conquest of two prestigious European titles – the titles of the Youth Capital of Europe and the European Capital of Culture? Why would we hide the opening of new factories, new investments, record number of children in kindergartens or science and technology parks in our city? We are proud that Novi Sad has entered the Green Cities Community where, together with our city, there are only 30 other cities in the world that form part of that community. When it comes to the reconstruction of the SPENS, i.e. the restoration of the swimming pool, citizens should know that the contractors will remove all shortcomings in the recovery of the swimming pool and that the responsibility of all the people involved in this project will also be determined. Veljko Krstonošić obviously has memory problems when he is able to speak of SPENS in such a way, because not so long ago, when DS was in power, and the Mayor of Novi Sad was Igor Pavlicic, just about the reconstruction of SPENS, was done one big nothing, even the light bulb was unable to replace. It's better for the citizens to answer what happened to the solar panels for SPENS. I have news here since 25 May 2011, and the title is “Investment in the protection of the environment”. In the picture, we can see former Mayor of Novi Sad Igor Pavlicic, together with former Environment Minister Oliver Dulic sign some contracts and here, among other things, writes – today we have reached an agreement that the resolution ministry will provide 30 million dinars to cover the building of SPENS with solar panels, and the rest of the money will provide the city. Where did those 30 million dinars go for the solar panels promised by the Dulic orthopedist? It is the people who will never forget what it was like when the DS was in power, and exactly the responsible policy led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic has shown that citizens are always in the first place and in the focus of all the activities we are carrying out. Citizens should also know that great efforts are being made to solve all problems in the field of energy, i.e. improving energy efficiency, so that in the voting day, together with my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support the proposal for a law confirming the Loan Agreement, because I am sure that by realising this project we will significantly improve the energy efficiency of the Military Academy, and I am also sure that by realising similar projects in the future, we will improve the energy efficiency of many buildings across the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3220	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ilija Matejic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3221	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, most importantly, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have a law before us that I sincerely regret that we haven't had much, much earlier. When I say much earlier, I mean not just the 2000 period, but before, which I'll explain later during my speech. With the help of this law, all those who have acquired property of great value will be exposed to various malfeasances. This law will be a means to achieve one of those six objectives that our government has, which is to fight crime and corruption. Crime and corruption are not only a problem in Serbia. As a member of Serbia's delegation to the Interparliamentary Union, I had the opportunity to attend meetings last week, virtual meetings that lasted two days, where I heard people from all over the world, from Africa, through Asia, to Europe talking about corruption, problems in their countries and how they solve them. We had a session yesterday on constitutional issues and legislation where we discussed this law in detail, and I must commend the government's representative, Mr. Vladimir Vinch, who came to that session extremely prepared, who had answers to our questions that were not easy at all. I am particularly pleased that the tax administration will educate a special unit where people will be employed and trained professionally only to handle these cases. As we discussed yesterday, this law will cover those people whose undeclared property was larger than three years in a row for 150 000 euros. Yesterday, in front of a respected representative, I expressed my desire to one day strive to reduce that amount to 150,000 dinars. I know it's impossible, that it's unattainable, like any ideal, but we need to strive, of course, towards it. Those who have acquired property in this way will be taxed with 75% and then asked a logical question, so wait, they acquired property illegally. The property that's so valuable is often acquired by criminal acts. What about the other 25% and therefore and that citizens don't have to worry about, the other 25% of criminal charges are followed by the tax administration, so those who acquired that property in an illegal manner will be completely left without it and should remain. Why would you citizens get up honestly every morning at six o'clock, leave their families and go to work, while someone gets rich just like that overnight? And what's good and what's especially looking forward to me is that all the revenues that have been made in this way will represent the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, this is one but valuable and important step towards our finances, and we are not a rich country and we have to take care of every dinar of our citizens. I knew my esteemed colleagues and colleagues would talk about former politicians the most. I don't like to mention them, I think they're an ugly past of our country, but we still have to mention them so they don't go back to their chairs. What I want to mention is a question that we often get from our citizens, so I'd like to explain it. It's an excellent question our citizens are asking us. They say, ‘Well, if they have stolen all these things, then why do you not condemn them and put them in prison?’ Great question and I'll explain for this public speaker only one of the ways they've earned that money. They, for example, are disputing some tender, public procurement, and they already know who's going to win that tender. The contractor wins, starts to do something, something a little blurry like that "Hetherland" for example, they pay him money for the work on the account and he raises the money and gets them clean cash in their hands. Well, come on, you prove it in court. It's all covered by paperwork, orderly documentation, and the judge and prosecutor are theirs. So, cadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you, but good cadiya, not bad cadiya. I sincerely believe that what happened was that the money was not left in the Republic of Serbia, but that it was pumped out of the Republic of Serbia and given to those foreign agents that brought them to power on October 5th. We saw who they brought to power because soon after, our prime minister was killed and we saw what the country looked like with all those restrictions. In this, respected citizens, the difference between them and us, which they want to rule over in order to illegally enrich themselves, and we ourselves make laws that prevent us from being illegally enriched. I mentioned that I wish our country had such a law long before. Imagine that we had this law back in socialism, when it came to you citizens, i.e. Your grandparents, seized property by the state and then shared it with top state officials by the same state, so they suddenly acquired apartments in downtown Belgrade and a working country throughout Serbia. What was that if it wasn't corruption? Imagine how rich we would have been if we had this law back then, how rich our people would have lived. Speaking of Tito, I have to mention that during Tito, it wasn't allowed for 45 years to mention Jasenovac. We thought that by the culture of oblivion we would push all our problems under the rug, that we would forget about everything and everything in the name of brotherhood and unity and we saw, unfortunately, how it ended. I would like to publicly praise director Predrag Gag Antonijevic for his brilliant film "Dar from Jasenovac". You know, one Schindler List has done more for Jews around the world than all the textbooks combined. "The gift from Jasenovac" will unfortunately be our "Shindler's List", I say, unfortunately, because it would have been better if something like this had never happened. I'm hearing a lot of grudges about that movie, they say it's not yet time for this, even though it's been 75 years. Well, when will it be time? For 175 years? Or they say you could've done better. Well, then why didn't you do it when you had time for it? There is a clear answer – they did not want. The state helped direct this film, i.e. create, with a million euros. You know, I've been hearing a lot of complaints about our president, Alexander Vukic, but whatever kind of a grudge you're making about this, you have to give him credit for having had the guts, you have to say this wasn't easy, because nobody's done this before in 75 years. This shows as much as he does, but we all here who sit here today love our country and love our people. We won't let any victims be forgotten. We'd forget to kill them for the second time. We won't forget either Jasenovac or Jastrebarska. We will not forget either Nada Sakic, who died in Zagreb with natural causes in 85 years, or other criminals from those camps, but we will not forget either "Storm", or NATO bombing, or any victim from our premises, regardless of religion and nationality. I never want anyone to understand what I'm saying as a message of hate. This film serves as a memory culture. Today's state of Croatia is not the same as NDH, today's people's Serbia and Croatia are not hated, but there is always 1% of the aggressive minority that makes it impossible to hear the vast majority. We won't forget history, so it never happens again, but we have to build a culture of peace and co-operation. You know why? In these camps, these children of Serbs and Roma had to hide in the holes in order not to kill them, and I spent my childhood at the age of seven playing hide-and-seek with the Roma in my surroundings. My children, not just my own children, not just the children of Serbia and Croatia, I want the childhood I had. So, your children of the world, regardless of nationality and faith. That's why, gentlemen, Serbia needs a film like this. That's why we need a law like this, just like this, so the people can see that someone's fighting for him, so the people can see that someone loves him and that our Serbia has a brighter future. Cheers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3222	The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Before you go on, let me point out, since many have asked, that the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic - for our children" has exactly an hour at his disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3223	Dear Members of Parliament, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens, simply to see how much this law is needed today, and this law on amendments and additions to this basic Law on the designation of origin of property, I will present reasoned examples of how the budget has been robbed, how the property has been illegally acquired, and in the case of five politicians who have performed a number of state functions. So, most of them are members of the former regime. The incomes of these persons were mainly acquired, 99%, in an illegal manner, mostly through the execution of criminal acts, abuse of official position and trade in influence. This law presents this extraordinaryly, one of the proofs of how they are being implemented, of course we know that, the priorities set by President Vukic, which in this case are the fight against corruption and the fight against the mafia. This law, and that's what colleagues have pointed out, but we all have to point out, is equally applied to everything, and the reality in the course of the SNS government in the last nine years shows that SNS is the only one that has since the beginning of ruthlessly dealt with the louses of its own ranks. It was not done by any party in Serbia's history and it is important to say. Simply speaking of the illegal origin of income, and thus the property of five people I'm going to mention. Of course it's the first one on their forehead, and we're not always afraid to mention it because it's impossible that this face hasn't been processed so far, although some of the processes against his associates are being led. So we all know that Gilas had already acquired his companies for ten years on three of his state functions, so as he dealt with politics, business income 619 million, the net profit was 106m euros. He is suspected of having acquired all of this through abuse of his position and trade in influence. He became one of Serbia's richest citizens, and along with him was his dear brother, who was co-owner of his dear brother, Gilas. It is important that after five years of mayoring Mr. Gilas, the losses of the city of Belgrade were counter-proportional to the profits of Gilas' companies, so imagine that. Belgrade's debt reached 1.2 billion euros at the end of its 2013 term, and the mayor's company's business revenues amounted to over fantastic 600m euros. Sam Gilas admitted and reported a 24m-euro asset to an NGO in 2018, however, he reported, since it is not a state body, only part of his assets. So, if someone doesn't trust me, let's hear the most creditworthy person who in the last 15, 20 years has struck the most decisive blow with his statements and struggle as President of the Council, that's what Verica Baraq has done to corruption and the mafia. So, in 2011, this brave woman had her famous report, she had a press conference on June 1st, 2011 when she said the key things nicely and had difficulty accusing Gilas. Verica Barac says, I quote "The media in Serbia have been captured, the government has established control over the media through Dragan Gilas, Serbia's closest co-worker Boris Tadic." Verica Barac also added "that Djilas Mayor of Belgrade and Democratic Party Vice-President had two media firms through which the channels for money and the purchase of ads and other influences on the media went." She added "that with such controlled and captured media there is no talk of an effective fight against corruption, because the media, quote Verica Barac, report what the government wants and in the way that the government wants it, and there lies the core of the shameful trade." Gilasu's wealth, the DS was then given control of the media. That's against the law. I've just set an example of trade in influence. The former president, if we don't trust Verica Barac, let's hear another credible face. It is former RRA Council President Nenad Cekic, who in August had a controversy in the "Today" 2020 list, which also found it difficult to accuse Dragan Dilas. He asked Gilas, I quote, former RRA president -- "How does this get 50, 150 in transition Serbia under the pretenses, etc. millions of euros"? Teach Cekic – "How fair it seemed to me to win under the allegations that Cekic was saying – I had the opportunity to see for myself when contracts came to my hands as chairman of the RRA Council on the basis of which Gilas' companies dealt with RTS, greetings for RTS, and Study B." In short, Gilas's companies made huge profits by buying out the seconds of RTS and Studio B with incredible discounts, and then reselling them. The thing went so far that in the end, no one could buy a second of RTS' own propaganda space. Namely, all the seconds are in the style of buyers, Cekic said, with Kalenic's market for months and years ahead, they bought Gilas's companies. That's why there's this famous investigation that I've repeatedly talked about against Gilas' associates. Vuk Jeremic, it is known that Vuk Jeremic and his close relatives own a large number of properties in the country, but also abroad suspected of being acquired illegally. According to data on transactions with foreign exchange and current and dinar accounts, I am only in the period from 2013 to 2016 for Jeremic, Jeremic's two legal entities have been donated $1.33m to the PR agency and $5.95m to NGO Cyrst. At the same time, keep an eye on Jeremic's personal and current foreign exchange account, it's only $858,000, just to tell you. And that's what the U.S. investigation found. Most of the money received by two Jeremic legal entities stemmed from a criminal, a former Hong Kong official, Patrick Ho, a member of Jeremic's board of directors, who was sentenced to years in prison in the United States, precisely because of machinations that are part of Jeremic's donation. Of course, other members of Jeremic's board, Cirst, were involved in the crime, and let's see Jeremic's credibility. On December 29, 2016, he presented a lie about the sources of his donations with Ljubica Gojgic. He said -- the vast majority of funding came from respectable large international corporations that do not operate in Serbia, nor have plans to operate. He's told a lie. In 2011, I took a picture with representatives of several Chinese companies, one of which was Patrick Ho's company, who came to negotiate with Tenta B3, and you will not believe it was attended by the foreign minister. What does he have to do with it? So the man made a lie. So, a modus operand of Jeremic himself, otherwise the godmother of the fake state of Kosovo, testifys to the fact that during his five-year ministerial term, he spent 3.6m euros from the budget on his luxury travels as no minister until then. Also, state auditors have established, so there are papers, evidence that you can enter every day, the illegal business of the ministry, when, listen to this, the purchase of foreign exchanges via a private exchange office, which is prohibited by law, which is also called "Transge-frange", and is damaged by the budget of 360,000 euros. Let's move on to the next example. That's quite a trillion -- Sasa Radulovic has been stealing Serbia's budget for four years. Unfortunately, the matter was public and legal under the assumption, but it was still a budget robbery. The worst part is, the state couldn't do anything. In four years, it is on private accounts, not on the accounts of a group of citizens, DJs or political entities, but on the private accounts of Sasa Radulovic, it has been 2.4m euros for four years. If you don't believe me, here's to hear what accusations against Radulovic was brought by former DJB President Branislav Mihajlovic on 9 November 2018. He accused Radulovic of taking more than 50,000 euros from the budget every month of the DJ. That's what the N1 TV vice president Tatjana Macura said on TV. So, the problem is that the country's Law on political parties doesn't finance natural persons, which is normal, but legal persons, political entities, and none of it is DJB. Otherwise, if I were to re-creed as I was saying about Jeremic, we would say Radulovic's credibility. "Dajce says," therefore, the German media reported in 2000 and proved that Radulovic left a $1m debt to the U.S. Tax Administration, which fled the United States and avoided paying the debt and "Dajce Vel" provided evidence in the form of a contract. The next size is Gilas's Marina Tepic, which is rarely mentioned, but be careful, there are papers and there is evidence. She owns a series of properties for which she simply cannot provide an overexplained explanation of her background. First there is an apartment of 123 meters square in the center of Novi Sad, in an exclusive location, 50 meters from Banovina. The apartment is worth over 300,000 euros. How could the modest sports and youth secretary of the province acquire an apartment of 300,000 euros? Of course, she owns other properties, because we know she lived in Pancheva, in the territory of Vojvodina. Also, while she was a secretary, she twice received a state-owned apartment for use from the province. However, there is no evidence that she has returned the apartment. I ask a question and it is very indicative – are the subsequent annexes of the contract allowed to buy these two apartments and under what conditions? Next, the last one is Bosko Obradovic. They usually associate him with violence, not corruption. Here, at the meeting of the main committee on July 7th 2017, a series of officials, Dveri, presented charges against Obradovic for corruption. He was followed by resignations from a series of officials who accused him of financial malfeasance at the top of the party. However, two years later, Dveri officials and MPs Srdjan Nogo and Zoran Radojicic accused Boško Obradovic in public on 8 April 2019, listen carefully, that he has embezzled 1.3m euros which, over three years from the budget and donations, entered Dvera, and only a negligible amount has been spent legally. Former Vice-President Dveri Nogo said: "Bosko Obradovic, President Dveri formed a group that has committed various crimes, forged documentation, abused the financials of the party and made usurpation of the Dvora with the aim of obtaining property benefit." The classic application of this law can come here. For the end. The great wise man Dusan Radovic said nicely: "When thieves begin to defend what they have acquired there will be no angry fighters for honesty and against thieves." Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3224	The next is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we approach the date of entry into force of this law, it seems to me that the political passions in Serbia are becoming more hot and hot, and now apparently these changes themselves do not go into favour with the good intentions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of the promise made by SNS and Aleksandar Vukic that anyone in Serbia who has significant assets will have to prove where he comes from. I heard from a colleague here that he was talking about the alleged cosmetics of the law itself and he's losing himself to the essence and it's just one marketing. I can say that he, from his rather superficial point of view, defended just those who need to come under the law, because when the first law is passed one of the key words that can be defined in order for the law to be implemented is – specific knowledge of the determination of legally acquired assets and the specific tax to be paid on that property. This problem arises in part that only the court can say whether something is in accordance with the law or not, whether the law is broken or not, and we already have legislation that implies that if property is acquired by committing a crime it can be taken away and given to the state. Proving the guilt of many tycoons in Serbia is very difficult. It is very difficult first because of the flow of time since they committed the crime, to always encounter a wall of silence with potential witnesses who could accuse someone of doing the crime, or testify in court. One example is Bastache's godfather. He accused Bastac of recalibrating investors involved in the illegal construction of residential buildings on the territory of the Old Town municipality. I believe it's really Bastac and the radio, but if you look at it to get a court epilogue, the very statement of his godfather isn't enough. The godfather against Bastac, Bastac against the godfather, ate the donkey wolf, no action. Is that what those who gave Bastac money will say? They won't, because they've been illegally engaged in construction. They are not in the interest of showing up in court, and yet on the other hand I believe that the vast majority of these people would not be engaged in illegal construction if the city of Belgrade at the time of Dragan Gilas had provided planning documents that these buildings they were building had a real building permit. Because often this racket that has to be paid to Bastac and Gilas was much bigger than setting up city building land and getting all the necessary permits. These people are forced to do something like that, but to appear in court and say they won't. So it's very hard to prove guilt. When has the largest number of assets and incomes been acquired in the past? At a time of two events. One was privatisation, where I can say it was a clean robbery of state property, they call it social property, it's state property where something was sold 20 times cheaper than it was market value, and even some times 100 times cheaper. The price difference had to be achieved somewhere, and the property that was acquired from the price difference through various financial speculations was to be taken into account and, of course, not to give to the state anything. The second procedure when it was stolen most is the Public Procurement Act. It's almost impossible to carry out any serious criminal procedure for violating the Public Procurement Act because it didn't even exist as a felony. The abuses in public procurement procedures became a criminal offence on 1 April 2013, based on the new Public Procurement Act promised by SNS and Aleksandar Vukic in the election campaign. It was Parliament law. It was written, proposed and voted by the MPs. The initiative was launched by the MPs of the SNS, but until then there was no crime – abuse in the procurement process. They could have done a nice job of annexing contracts without any restrictions, making extra profits, making everything legal and no one answering anything. This is what we found in Serbia and to answer that question – so why is the state no longer processing them? They weren't stupid or crazy. They wrote laws here so they could do what they were doing, or if they did first, so they realized later that they could come under the influence of the law, they changed the law so that they could amnestize themselves here and prevent the state from reacting in the event of a regime change. That was the former regime, that was Dragan Gilas. Such ones would like to see Serbia in the future if they come to power. That's the problem. This is about taxes. You know, with a serious criminal or a tycoon, who really has great legal advisors, lawyers are basically going to cheat on someone for something and cheat on them every time they get a chance to do it, no matter how small the amount of money they make for the profits they make. This is the most banal example of "Delta" company Miskovic. At work once, a man earned hundreds of millions of euros, refused to pay the state a tax on the transfer of absolute rights and silenced him for five million, and the whole job cost more than 200m euros. Profit, pure profit 200m euros. You see what their essence is. Of course, when this law is now beginning to apply, it will be attacked as a political conflict with the unthinkers. We have nothing against them, let them just prove, show and pay taxes to the state on the revenues they have made and that all citizens of Serbia know how and how much they have achieved them. This entails, of course, political responsibility, but it is not according to that people's responsibility – both the goats and the money. You can't be a thief and you can't be free. Let's get this straight. That is why it is now even from some MPs, for which I have been surprised, this law has been attacked, because in essence the attack on this law is that it defends everything that has been done in the past years by the previous regime. It's one really serious problem, in the sense that people are starting to feel and act untouchable and give the right to some others to think that others can do the same in the future. Well, he can't. Laws have been passed as general acts that apply to all, including Dragan Gilas, Šolak and Miskovic and any other citizen of the Republic of Serbia. On the one hand, you exercise your rights, and on the other hand you have the responsibility to exercise those rights. Here's another example, see how far they go in these extremes. Here's what my colleague Nebojsa Bakarec was talking about, say, about Gilas' brother. Someone will say, well, but that's a story already told. Well, it may be, but citizens should know that people like Dragan Gilas, when you come to so much enormous wealth, six hundred million euros, you can't do everything transparent. You need to find some people you trust who aren't as exposed to the public as Dragan Gilas. So who will he trust more than his own brother? And unfortunately, for the 12 years they've been in power, Dragan Gilas has proved only to be the greatest hohstappler and thief, but we still have many in Serbia, in depth. There's nowhere they couldn't have gotten their fingers involved, to acquire some property, to steal, above all, our citizens, their citizens, to impoverish them. There are certain things we cannot do to correct them irreparably, because they have made legal regulations to do so, but some things through this law can at least be done fairer, which is – if you have illegally acquired property, if these revenues were not visible, if you have not paid the tax on those revenues, you will pay it according to this law. It is not because someone would shine on you, but to return to the citizens what you have taken from them, and never to let anyone in Serbia think about doing what they did to Serbia by Dragan Djilas and Miskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3226	I thank the People's MP, Veroljub Arsic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3227	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we who enter the National Assembly at the entrance to the left will see Emperor Dushan. In one hand, Emperor Dushan holds the Lawman, the 14th - century Lawman, with a cannon in his other hand. Why? Because he knew what many of us today didn't know, that without power, without power, the laws weren't worth anything. The law is only valuable if you have the power to implement it. I understand this particular tax, try to reach those whose assets have increased significantly without you having any evidence of the crime. I believe our people well know that part of this property is well hidden. Are we going to tax the School's planes? Hardly. I'll let you know how much our ordinary citizens are worth more than their own. So Emperor Dušan spoke of the authority and attributed them to certain rights and obligations. If they broke their obligations, the punishment was cruel. I'll give you an example of a New Sad gamer who came up with a video game he sold and gave 19m euros. He brought money into Serbia and paid an orderly tax. I'm going to give you an example that you all know, one that's been incomed in strange ways, without product, in another game, which wasn't virtual, 619m euros. A game with RTS, a game with School, a game with SBB, a game with Arena, a game with Radjuka, and I don't know who else to play with. In the virtual game that had no product, which was more virtual than others, the one who ruled, who owned it, took 619m euros. So he did his public work the way he turned it into a private business. Also, things of general interest while the government turned it into a business of its own interest. It's the difference between our ordinary citizens and our former, so to speak, the owners, who knew nothing about it. I'll do the best I can to cut my speech short. Since I was already talking about Dusan's code, that Dusan's code is in force, that we punish those who aren't here today, who in some predatory privatisation closed down factories, who put communism and property in their private pockets, that Dusan's code was in effect to implement it, that they were in the Assembly today, they would not vote with their hands but their feet, and many of them would roll on their stomachs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3228	The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3229	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers with an associate, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, amendments and additions to the Law on the Origin of Assets are certainly something that citizens are most interested in and of the law itself, primarily citizens must benefit from. But this law will help us to understand that some people have their positions while they were in power, not to help citizens and to fight for a better life of citizens, but only to use them to fill their pockets and increase their bank accounts. Anything concerning the Law of Origin of Assets, which was brought a year ago, and these changes and additions is good, is useful. Some say it may have been late, some say it had to wait a little while longer to do better, but I think that citizens have no more time to wait, to find out and to find out that it was during the time our country collapsed, while factories were shutting down, while more than half a million people were out of work, some state officials were from failed entrepreneurs, people in torn jeans and drilling shoes came into a situation today to be one of the richest people in Europe, and certainly the richest in the Balkans. And much has been said in the previous period, many governments before the SNS came to power promised the property origin law, but did not adopt it or bring it. Paradoxically, people who did power by 2012, the DS and DS regime had at the time every lever to pass the law, but did not do so, while their then feathered, and today one of the loudest in this Alliance for Serbia or some new, repacked opposition, Borko Stefanovic announces his new property origin law and is one of the loudest critics of this law, and of course everything under the orders of Dragan Djilas. Only this example shows how hypocrisy is in these people and how there is no good thing the Serbian government will do that is in the interest of Serbian citizens and that they will not criticise it. I can talk from this place about this law and about these amendments and additions to the law for hours and I believe that the debate of five hours may not be enough for us to step up at that level that may be expected by citizens and Belgrade and Serbia, but how I come from Belgrade and how I know how much Dragan Gilas has damaged only the city of Belgrade and how much debt he has left behind, somewhere it has become a normal thing for me to talk about his affairs on a daily basis and it is just amazing to me now that someone from his party is criticising this law, and even more paradoxical when his associate Borko Stefanovic insists on some new law on the origin of property. There are two key questions – why has this law not been passed before, and does this mean that Borko will now, if he does not already support this law, in some proposal for a new one of his laws to examine the property of his boss and boss Dragan Gilas? Someone was talking here about hysteria, as the start of the date approaches, this 12th March, long announced, and all about this law, so it seems to me that in the public too, hysteria and attacks on this law are increasing, and for the simple reason that people who are going to be covered by this law are afraid, because they know that they are obviously not in the honorable and fair way come to the wealth they have today. In addition, the fact is that on one of his media that was under his direct control, Dragan Gilas had an interview last night, where he tried to justify himself. The last few years of my exposure when the topic of abuse of official position has started with this, and many colleagues have repeated this today, that this man entered politics in 2004, precisely to be, that's what he reported – 70,000 euros in savings, a car used by the SAB and a house that leads to his wife. In 2018, before the elections for the Belgrade City Assembly, candidates for mayors submitted their property cards, reported their assets, and Dragan Gilas then reported more than 30 different properties whose total value was estimated at 25m euros. When we talked about how he got rich in politics and all kinds of influence stores he had with the position of both mayor and adviser Boris Tadic, the representative of some office in that government, he told us that he had made a fortune by first trading gum, it seemed to me, so last night we heard that he was washing windows, so he was working on some building, and all this so far-fetched, implicating himself in even bigger lies and not knowing how to get out of these lies. What is most important to me, I will quote to you what man is, an example of how a state function is being misused, last night said: "I made my first pair in 2005. At the end of that year, one second on that show, it was 1,000 with a pay-by-600, and I was paying 20%. So that's where I made my way 20 and something, because in 2004 (with a sigh) I went into politics." So, all we're saying is that the man got rich only after he got into politics, he confirmed it. What's more interesting? When they asked him, when he finished washing the windows, they asked him if he wanted to keep washing the windows here, and he told some of his associates bravely – no, I'm not going to wash the windows, I'm going to make money, you won't, because I have a different approach. What a different approach he has, he hasn't explained to us, nor have we been able to find out what kind of approach he's working on, but I suppose he's proud of his own imaginary skill and ability, and I'm going to call it the ability to cheat, Dragan Gilas boasted that no one in his company has lost his job and that it's a shame that some people in that period are working for 15 thousand dinars, and in the same time more than half a million people are out of work in Serbia, and tens of thousands of factories and businesses are shut down, so the question is whether he has a gram of cheeks when he says such things and tries to wash themselves in this way? Also, in this interview he said – I made my fortune in 2005, it had nothing to do with politics, because I was not in power. And in parallel with that, he was an adviser to former President Boris Tadic. Well, was he a gardener or a counselor? Is President Boris Tadic's position a political function or was he just a gardener and watering flowers for him? What he says in favor of how much he was doing in the murky shops and how he could have done without a contract, without a tender, without procurement, he says the following statement, and I would no longer quote him: “You, when you ask one of the people in the business, do you have a contract with Gilas, they will tell you – and what do we need a contract for? That's because everyone knows that I respect my word and agreement. “ This was all told by Gilas, without any further explanation of who he was making deals with, making combinations, making money, without any single contract. Now you tell me as people who do business and law, here there are people who are graduated economists, we have people who are professional from every aspect, to see if there's anything legal to do, the flow of money to do, and you don't have any contract? Obviously from the corner of Dragan Gilas is absolutely possible. What concerns me, especially as a citizen of Serbia, is the fact that this man laughs in the face of the citizens of our country, here are interviews like this, trying to make everyone else incompetent, lazy, and create an atmosphere of his own that he is very capable and very smart. I don't know what effect he had on his brother and his brother having real estate worth five million euros, but I am convinced that this law will include all those people who are the closest family and the most family. I don't want anyone to think of this as, well, question Gilas, don't question anyone else. No, each of us, and whoever sits here and who performs any state function or is in a place where abuse of position is possible. I absolutely agree that the property of each of us is being examined. Because this law, or any examination of the origin of the property, will not be afraid of anyone who has worked honestly and legally, and that is not Dragan Gilas. As there are more speakers that have been reported for the word, the details of the other affairs will be presented on Thursday, when we discuss the amendment, and I would only like to say that this law and these amendments and additions to the Law on the Origin of Assets are a good thing, but we can only judge it when that law begins to apply and when we as MPs, but above all Serbian citizens, see some results and shifts and finally see that those who have drawn their hands directly into their pockets, who have damaged Serbia's budget, who have abused their functions, have finally suffered some consequences and consequences. I hope that we will soon experience it, that we will see these shifts already this year, and thank you for these proposals and amendments and the additions of the Law and hope that in the interest of our citizens, we will continue to work together in the interest of our Serbia. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3230	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3231	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers with an associate, respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us today of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Origin of Property and Special Tax. First of all, I believe that this is one of the most important laws since the introduction of multilaterals in Serbia, which was adopted on 29 February 2020 in this House of the National Assembly, which will take effect, starting on 12 March this year. I am extremely glad that the practice has continued that all the more important laws that Serbia and its citizens have been waiting for for over a decade and are more proposed and adopted in this House of the National Assembly during the SNS mandate. These are all the important laws that we have given a positive impulse to continue reforms and arrangements, i.e. developing Serbia into an orderly and democratic society. It would really take me a long time to list all these laws in particular, so I would especially like to point out some of them, and above all, I consider them to be the most important Labour Act, the Social Card Act, as well as the Law establishing the origin of property and special tax. I stand firm at the point that by adopting this law we have taken one big step forward but I would also like to remind you all of those things that preceded the adoption of this law. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that the area subject to regulation of this law has become current since 2000. In 2007, the Minister of Finance, later and President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic of the DS was on the issue of journalists and professional public when the Law on the Origin of Assets was held in the assembly procedure and he replied that we do not need such a law at that time, that we have too good tax law and that the state does not need such a law. What Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic did not state at that time is that behind this fundamentally politically incorrect statement there is a lack of political will. The lack of political will, that small circle of people who were at the moment conducting a political scene of Serbia, was just a brakes for passing such a law. The law was to break with times at that time, because Serbia could not in a transparent way control money flows and should have prevented the wealth of certain individuals, as this wealth of individuals was not conditioned by a entrepreneurial spirit or by a certain capacity, but solely by belonging to a particular political party or later on by certain alliances. Until the arrival of Alexander Vukic and the SNS to power, we were faced with hearing or seeing that the property of certain individuals increased in a shorter or longer period of time by a few dozen times. And all of us ordinary Serbian citizens have been asking the question every day how does that go with someone's hand? All these questions, unfortunately, were left without an answer. The property of individuals continued to increase until political will was created. I must stress in particular that the first to create a political will to pass this law was then the prime vice-president of the government, and today the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, who was currently in charge of fighting organised crime and corruption. The first one triggered the topic that such a law is something essential that Serbia and its citizens need. At that point, we did not have complete unity on this subject, but at that time we were faced with the fact that various legal and economic experts were going on television to state that at that point we do not need such a law What is even more dimming is that we will never have a true political will and that we will never have a consensus to pass such a law. Just in 2014, 2015 and 2016, for the first time we see the fear and anxiety of certain stakeholders and political individuals that their property, God forbid, will be hit by state institutions to determine the origin of the property. Not only have we passed the Law on the Origin of Assets, but we have passed a series of legal and sublegal acts that we have implemented the process of reforming the Tax Administration that will lead this difficult and ambitious enterprise, and this same Tax Administration has implemented the professional training process of individuals who will lead and participate in this process, all in accordance with the law. In order for our intention to look serious at that point and for citizens to be convinced that this law would be applied in full scope we had to implement certain measures, i.e. fiscal consolidation measures and certain economic reforms. After these economic measures were implemented, we have made a number of legal and sublegal solutions which we have given to the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration to unite and link all necessary data, and then, if there is a need, solely on the basis of facts and evidence to initiate the procedure for determining the origin of the property. Why it is very important that a certain disproportionate or disproportion between one's declared income and immovable or mobile assets on the other hand for a period of three years from the date of control of the property of 150 000 euros is established. First of all, if there is a certain disproportionate or disproportion in this process, there is also clearly a surplus of money for which both the state and its citizens are damaged. The state has been damaged because it has been denied tax charges without its own fault, and citizens have remained deprived of new homes of health, schools, hospitals, bridges and so on. A real example of how each of our fellow citizens’ zealous tax payments helps the state on the one hand and how the state is helping our fellow citizens in the same way shows the same money that the state took during 2020, during the course of the Coronal Virus pandemic and here, above all, I mean the aid package for the economy, aid to citizens, the allocation of money for testing, as well as the possibility for Serbia to be a leader in the region and the fifth country in the vaccination process. With good fiscal consolidation and good tax collection, we have made it possible for our citizens today to choose between four vaccine manufacturers, to vaccinate over a million of our fellow citizens, and to donate a particular vaccine contingent to our neighbours such as Macedonia and Montenegro. But after a year of passing this law, we have met with the cry of individual opposition politicians who have announced that this law will exclusively be used in the fight against all those who are not part of the ruling majority. I must say from this place that it is unfortunate that these same politicians who are the leaders of those parties that are below the censors today use such important laws to address their electoral body and, at the same time, deny these statements justice and equality. Also, I don't understand why no opposition leader has gone into the media within a year of the adoption of the law, as Alexander Vukic said, saying he can't wait to be the first politician whose property will be subject to review by the Tax Administration. Well, it is not, dear Serbian citizens, because there is a certain fear and a need to check the property of those politicians who increased by selling TV seconds, as well as the property of those politicians who received suspicious donations from Qatar and other countries during the presidential election campaign. Believe me, I want to assure you that if at any time the property of these same politicians is on the IRS radar that we will go through a monstrous campaign, where they will point out that this law is exclusively used to combat opposition and suppress the same. So from this point on, I want to give full support to the Tax Administration and to all other relevant institutions, so that at no time do they succumb to any kind of political pressure. Also, I would like to add that this law does not derivate existing tax laws, but by passing this law we create an even stronger basis for applying them. In the voting day, I will support the proposed amendments and additions of the law, because I believe that they use certain termological terms, so that the term legally acquired assets is changed by the term – the property for which a special tax is established, and that, above all, stands at the point of view that it is done, so as not to prejudge the final solution to the administrative procedure, nor the criminal procedure, so that the procedure is conducted in accordance with the law. What I want to point out in the end is that the law establishing the origin of the property shows that, since 2012, order, transparency and accountability have started in Serbia. It is this law that shows that institutions are given a free hand with regard to the exercise of their competences, and in order to prevent abuse and machination, in order to ensure that at the end of the day countries and citizens remain damaged. With this law, we create conditions to respect law, knowledge, ideas and entrepreneurship in Serbia. All other ways will be subject to this law, and the goal is for our Serbia to be an even richer and better place to live for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3232	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3233	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the Serbian government, Vice-President and Minister Mr Ruzic, the distinguished minister, Mrs Popovic, the senior adviser from the justice ministry, Mr Vins, respected fellow MPs, dear citizens of Serbia. I believe that these amendments to the Law establishing the origin of property are just another big step towards fighting crime and corruption. As we know, since 2012, exactly the leader of the major fight against crime and corruption has been the current President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. We've seen on a few occasions since 2012, here that fight isn't easy at all. The state also announced a few months ago a hard-on with the mob. We see already the first results and this opportunity I would like to give full support not only to the implementation of this Law on the Origin of Assets, but also to the Ministry of Justice and to you, Mrs Popovic and the Ministry of the Interior, BIA, the Tax Administration, all those institutions that contribute against crime and corruption, led by our President Aleksandr Vukic. What I would like to point out to this occasion is, of course, that first we politicians need to determine the origin of the property, but both for us who are here in the Assembly and for those who are in office in the executive power and for those politicians who belong to the former regime. Let's see what happens to the millions of assets and Dragan Gilas, and Vuk Jeremic, and Bojan Pajtic, and all their associates, to see how Dragan Gilas is the first director of some national office, then as a minister of the NIP, and then as mayor of Bojan Pajtic gained hundreds of millions of euros, to see what about the Ada Bridge and the reconstruction of King Alexander's Bulevar and so on, to see how Gilas and members of his family, including Brother Gok, have won dozens of apartments of which several apartments in the municipality I come from, on Vrakar. Speaking of Vračar, I would like to take advantage of the presence of our minister Popovic here, to remind the public that in Vračar the former government has kidnapped the former regime from the citizens of Vračar 173 apartments, 5,354 square squares of business space and 5 and a half million euros not charged for the issue of business space. A criminal report was filed in December 2016. Police have been combing the Vashcar municipality for several months. We have also received an official response here from the prosecution that the investigation is under way, but I hope that in the case of these affairs of the disappearance of return homes, the business space and as regards these other affairs where Dragan Gilas acquired not millions, but hundreds of millions of euros, that he will not remain a dead letter on paper and that this Law on the origin of property will investigate the assets and members of the former regime and those involved in politics both in government and opposition. When I say Dragan Gilas, I have to remind his media, because it is the media that are under control and Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak that are not only trading for seconds, which my colleagues spoke more about, primarily my colleague Marijan Risticevic, but these are the same media that when we almost all Serbian citizens saw the movie "Dara from Jasenovac", N1, "Nova S", and those media and portals that are under the control of Dragan Gilas have not even published a letter about this film that speaks about the truth about the crimes in World War II by Ustasha on the innocent Serbian people. Finally, in order not to owe much, to give others the opportunity to speak, I would ultimately just like to call the public, call on the citizens of Serbia and the media, those of us who are in parliament to support the executive government and the Serbian government and President Aleksandar Vukic and as regards the implementation of this law and the vigorous fight against crime and corruption and the fight against the mafia. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3234	Thank you. The People's Messenger Ivan Ribaq has the word. You've got seven and a half minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3235	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected MPs, respected respected citizens of Serbia, the SNS has come out of the wishes and needs of Serbian citizens for a ruthless and determined fight against the illegal wealth of individuals and unconscious robbery of state property. At a time when we were opposition, we promised our citizens, if we got their trust, that we would fulfill the origins of those who thought Serbia was their front and that they could waste and arch national money as they wanted. Today, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law establishing the origin of property and special tax, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The law was passed on February 29th last year and we are facing changes and additions that do not essentially change the debt of the law, but only eliminate problems that could arise in its application. Dear gentlemen, on March 12th 2021, it will be one of the most important days in modern Serbian legislation, as it begins from that day on inauguration of this law that the citizens of Serbia have been waiting for for decades. Our party, led by our president, is getting the unremembered trust of citizens of all these years precisely because of the struggle against those who have exclusively experienced politics as an opportunity for personal wealth, the wealth of their friends, the wealth of their relatives and godparents. Perhaps their greatest sin is that, as great American politician Henry Kissinger said, as corrupt politicians, they made the impression that everyone else after them looked just like that. Unlike the honest, hardworking and honorable sons and daughters of this people, this law is expected in the political circles that our country has made between 2000 and 2012, with fear and fear, just as close to criminal circles. As our holy priest Father Thaddeus said - don't be afraid, and that is a message that perfectly describes how we should treat this important law. Those who attack him and those who attack him safely in the future will do so exclusively out of personal fear, not out of blatant concern for the people and the state. Only the criminals and those who have made politics a business, not a service for the citizens, will have reason to fear that after this law, all illegally acquired property will be taken away from them. When it comes to amending the law, it is particularly important to support the amendments in Article 12(1) to which the previous procedure is carried out by the tax administration on the basis of a professional risk analysis, as well as a Article 15 to which income from a specific tax will belong to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or to all of our citizens to improve the quality of their lives. No citizen, no individual, no political party or criminal clan will ever be stronger than the state of Serbia and its laws again. In 2021, this is particularly clear, as Serbia has also fought against domestic and regional crime of the largest species and the worst species in the past. The arrest of the Belivuk criminal clan and its associates has shown the strength of our country, its officers, members of service and security, but it has also shown that the haughtiness and passion of criminals can be so great that at one point they think they are stronger even than the state and its laws, and that some, like the highest institutions of this state, think they can physically liquidate. This is not the first time the president of our country has ever been targeted, but this criminal group is certainly the last. The sword was lagged from him, and they were killed. However, it should be said that Belivuk and all his associates are the criminals he has in all the countries in the world, but what has made them as they have become, is the institutional support of certain people from a state apparatus without which they would have been just petty offenders who would have long served their own on a law-founded sentence. This link between organised crime and state officials, officials who rarely swear to protect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the security of our citizens, that is, respected gentlemen, heresy, it is unacceptable and it must be cut into the root, so that no one will ever think about creating these fine ties and ties again, because without it Serbia will certainly not be better. I believe that this case will be carried out to the end, and therefore I welcome the fight against organised crime, I welcome the fight to expose every illegally taken dinar from the citizens of Serbia and to make a mockery of the perpetrator and bring about justice through this Law on the Origin of Assets. I thank all those who fight the battle on these fronts on behalf of our country, all in order to make the lives of our citizens safer and safer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3236	Thank you. You've got another minute and a half. Mr. Vujadinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3237	Thank you, Mr. President. Since we have brought an end, the honourable representatives of the government, honourable MPs, I don't have much time, much has been said today, much has been said especially by my colleagues from the SNS, but, dear Minister, you are in serious trouble. I'm telling you honestly. I have no intention of scaring you. On the contrary, when I say, you, I mean the Government, us MPs, all those who created and participated in the adoption of this law. You're asking me why? Well, do you need a better example than what's been going on in the last few days when it comes to arresting people who have come up with millions in a similar way through criminal activity? You had a chance to see what they were willing to do to protect their millions. And millions are millions, whether they're obtained by cocaine or some other kind of crime, whether they're acquired by corruption. Those who have earned them will not give up on them in an easy way. So I think we're all in trouble. However, the people of Serbia believe you, what has been waiting for you for decades, this law, that you will be persistent to the end, brave and implement this law to the end. Do you need a role model at that job? May the role model be for you in the government, as well as for all those who enforce this law, the president of the state, who has stood decisively in the fight against those who illegally acquired millions, who have drawn those millions in one far more bloody way, but the vermin are both. Since there's no more time, thank you. We will certainly be your support, your support will be Serbia, and I hope that you will implement this law by the end of the day, and we will support the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3238	Thank you. Since there are no more entries on the lists for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if there is anyone else who has not yet used his right from the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else on behalf of the promoter? The word is made by Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3239	I just wanted to thank you for today's debate and to promise you on behalf of the Serbian Government that this fight against crime and corruption will be unwavering, that in this sense you have an ally in your government, of course, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, and that we will give the IRS all the support, as well as prosecutors, courts, will all participate in this fight, precisely to implement this law in the best possible way. Thank you all again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-23-0.u3240	Thank you. I want to thank the minister. This was the first law she defended here in the Assembly. I wish her many more opportunities and many more successes in her work. Vice-President and Minister Branko Ruzic have already been here several times. And I thank him for his presence. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled and uniform search on the proposals of the law at issue. 1, 2nd and 3rd agenda. Let me say it one more time, we'll get back to work tomorrow. It is on the agenda to discuss the Agreement on Educational, Cultural and Sports Cooperation between Serbia and Mexico, the law confirming the Status Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on actions conducted by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, i.e. Frontex, in Serbia and the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking. On Thursday, there will be a report on the Commission's work on the protection of competition for 2019, with a proposal to conclude the relevant committee and follow-up, since we have one amendment to this law, means a debate in particular on this one amendment, and the afternoon from 16:00 to 19.00 hours, since it is the last Thursday of the month, will be traditionally parliamentary issues for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and after 19.00 hours will be voting day. I would like to thank the ministers and the MPs. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that, at this time, 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 4 to 6 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the sittings of Nikola Selakovic, Foreign Minister Aleksandar Vulin, Interior Minister Zoran Lazic, Home Secretary Zoran Lazarov, Assistant Minister of the Interior and Bojan Cvetkovic, Head of the Department of Foreign Affairs. I ask the MPs' groups that unless they have already done so, they will immediately file a statement with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint single search on: a bill confirming the Agreement on Educational, Cultural and Sports Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States, a proposal for a law confirming the Status Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on actions implemented by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency in the Republic of Serbia and a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in the field of combating human trafficking. I welcome Minister Vulin who is present here today on behalf of the promoter and I give him my word. Here you go.
