ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-1.u11186	Dear People's MPs, Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the seventh special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. I called this special session to the National Assembly to be addressed by the President of the Interparliamentary Union, His Excellency, Mr. Duarte Pasheko. I am honored to welcome His Excellency, Mr. Duarte Pasek, president of the Interparliamentary Union, on behalf of the National Assembly and on behalf of myself. In addition, I welcome representatives of the diplomatic crust in the Republic of Serbia, who are attending today's special session. I would like before I give my word to Mr Pasek to express great satisfaction and gratitude for accepting our call to visit Serbia and for realising this visit within a short period of time. We are proud of the fact that we have organized this visit, the fact that our membership, Serbia's membership in the Interparliamentary Union has such a long history, which is 130 years. Only two years after the establishment of the Interparliamentary Union, which is one of the oldest international organisations, Serbia became a member at the third conference in Rome in 1891. It was one of the first countries to become a member of the Interparliamentary Union, and the Interparliamentary Union was one of the first international organisations to which Serbia joined. Also, I am proud of the fact that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia two years ago was an extremely good host of 141. The Interparliamentary Union Assembly, which was held here with us in Belgrade. I would like to remind you that the Interparliamentary Union is the oldest international parliamentary organisation, which was founded in 1889, that it represents the largest forum of parliamentarians in which dialogue on peace and co-operation is conducted among peoples, cultivates and promotes the concept of representative democracy, establish contact, co-operation and exchange of experiences between parliamentarians and parliamentarians, examines issues of international importance, of free trade, promotion of human rights, gender equality, child rights and all other topical issues. The Interparliamentary Union has 179 states that are represented in six geopolitical groups and 13 regional parliamentary assemblies, as associated members. Our country is also a full member of the 12 Plus Group. These are the countries of Europe, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. I will also remind you that we have an official delegation of the National Assembly in the Interparliamentary Union. Once again, I would like to thank the President of the Interparliamentary Union for agreeing to visit the 130-year anniversary of our membership immediately after the meeting of the Interparliamentary Union in Madrid, which took place this weekend. I now call upon His Excellency, Mr. Duarte Pasek, president of the Interparliamentary Union to address us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-1.u11187	Dear colleagues, parliamentarians, we are all parliamentarians, we are all colleagues, distinguished members of the diplomatic court, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my condolences to you all, especially you, President, for the death of Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic after the life he dedicated to politics, parliamentaryism and with a special desire to rebuild your country after the war. We'll pray for him, but life goes on. At this point I am here to speak of a special date for your parliament, which is the 130th anniversary of your membership in the Interparliamentary Union. I am honored to be in Belgrade and celebrate with you the anniversary of your membership. I thank you, Mr. President Ivica Dacic, for inviting me to come here. I also thank you for your warm hospitality. Since I came here, I feel at home not only because I have many friends here in your parliament, but also because of the way you, Mr. President, have received me from a true friend. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my great gratitude to the National Assembly for hosting the 141st Interparliamentary Union session in October 2019. The results of that meeting are important. We adopted the resolution here in Belgrade, let's say, on climate change because we really realized that it was a big cause for concern and there was still a resolution that we brought here in Belgrade that would shape the work of the Interparliamentary Union in the future, so it wasn't just one meeting here. It was a meeting that had and left a concrete impact and impression on the work of the Interparliamentary Union. Thank you very much. I may not have said it correctly, but I want to say thank you, honourable Parliamentarians. The Interparliamentary Union, as Mr President said, is the largest parliamentary organisation in the world. There are 179 member states. We only have 14 more to achieve this universal membership in the Interparliamentary Union. There are countries from all continents and parliamentarians from all continents and in this organization they work by talking, by meeting to discuss and adopt resolutions that we can then implement in our countries. We are a global organisation of national parliaments and sometimes people say that this organization is really important. Yes, it is. As you know, we are politicians and the personal contacts we make between us are essential to solving real real problems. Two days ago in Madrid, I helped hold a meeting of the Central Affairs Committee, with colleagues from Knesset, Israel, and colleagues from the authorities of Palestine moving to the same table and discussing issues concerning them, which affect them. I don't know a lot of forums where they talk to each other. Well, that's what happened within the Interparliamentary Union, so we work together to find solutions to global problems. As we saw almost two years ago, in many countries leaders thought they could live alone, decide some things on their own, that it doesn't matter that there are relations with other countries, however, there was a problem in one part of the world. These problems have spread to all continents in Europe, America, Africa. So it showed us all how small our world is. If we've had any doubts so far, look what happened to the vaccines, we've managed to make them work together by scientists from the north, south, east, west. They worked together to find a solution. It has shown us that only if we work together will it be possible to fight and win over global problems. The Interparliamentary Union is an organisation that unites parliamentarians from all countries, as I said. It was the first organization to join parliaments in the 19th century over 130 years ago. Because of our real work, the Interparliamentary Union won not one, but two Nobel Peace Prizes for its contribution, promoting and encouraging dialogue between parliamentarians from all over the world. The Interparliamentary Union is an organization that you joined 130 years ago. I congratulate you all, I congratulate all Parliamentarians in your country who have worked with the Interparliamentary Union, who have decided to become members of the Interparliamentary Union and who have decided to maintain a relationship with the Interparliamentary Union. This spirit of our founding members and their vision of creating a global parliamentary community is still very much alive today at a time when democracy, peace and development are under threat and challenges in many parts of the world. Maybe we think democracy is something that will be present in our lives forever. No, dear friends, democracy is like a flower. We have to water him every day. If we do not water, we will witness the drying of the flower, or his death. And democracy is like a flower. So we'll figure out how valuable it is to us only when we lose it. So I ask you to work together, to defend the democratic way of life in which people respect each other, whether they agree or disagree with each other in free society, and that is exactly one of the things that the Interparliamentary Union is working on. The world has never needed co-operation between parliamentarians as much as it needs today, precisely in the fight against the challenges we face. No country can cope with the challenges alone, especially when facing challenges and global problems such as climate, emergency, economic crisis, sustainable development, terrorism, to list just a few. But there are challenges. Public inaction and misrepresentation of politics today lead to increased mistrust in democratic institutions such as parliament, which in turn undermines peace, democracy and the rule of law. I see this as a strong signal that parliaments must play a central role as representative, effective, strong institutions. From the collapse of democratic governance to economic inequality, there is an obvious need everywhere for Parliament's voice to pave the way for progress at the national regional international level. We have jointly succeeded in the Interparliamentary Union to maintain this sense of urgency through several global parliamentary events in the last two years, which have shown us that democracy has not been interrupted and parliaments are not interrupted by the pandemic. People have suffered, and we all parliamentarians have found a way to work during the pandemic itself, we as parliament, and therefore the Interparliamentary Union. Let me say we're still working. Of course, we kept working, but it wasn't the same in these two years. Since our meeting in Belgrade, in October 2019, we met live only last September in Vienna. For almost two years, we only had online meetings. Sure, it's better than closing the door completely, but that kind of work isn't the same as when we meet in person. Now we're back, we're holding global parliamentary events again. We had a Global Conference of Parliament Presidents last September. We also had the General Assembly in Madrid, which was completed a few days ago. On that online 142. The Interparliamentary Union Assembly has established parliamentary strategies necessary to save lives by speeding up equal distribution of vaccines and rebuilding sustainable and inclusive economies. We've all realized that only when everyone is vaccinated will they all be safe. The vaccines should come to every part of the world and the corner of the world. They should be available to all countries and to all people in the world. Of course, we have to work on a change in mentality, because sometimes vaccines are available, and people don't want to take them. But they have to understand that unless they want to receive the vaccine, they are not only jeopardizing their lives, but also the lives of others. Afterwards, parliament presidents from around the world had one conference in Vienna and dedicated themselves there, committed to building more effective multilateralism through their parliamentary leadership. It was a special moment in which they showed one commitment to multilateralism as one way, perhaps the essential way of achieving international relations. In Vienna, too, about 20% of parliament presidents, as many as there are in the world, gathered at 13. They put equality and empowerment of women on the summit and on top of their agenda. Equally important was the parliamentary contribution to global efforts in the fight against terrorism, leading to the first Global Parliamentary Summit on the fight against terrorism, which we also organised in September. Since democracy is increasingly under the challenge around the world, our recent Madrid Assembly has mobilized efforts to find new approaches to restore and preserve democracy. This is all reflected in our declaration that we have brought to Madrid and it includes one plan of activity that we in our work as parliamentarians should implement. It is very important that there is co-operation between parliamentarians from different countries and co-operation between different MPs belonging to different political parties. So, dear friends, these three global parliamentary summits that were held this year have made one momentum on three urgent issues in our time, which is economic recovery, effective multilateralism and strengthening democracy. I believe now is the time to ensure that economies are revived and functional for everyone and that effective multilateralism is the basis of international relations and that key elements of democratic societies are protected. I am convinced that the president of parliament and Serbian parliamentarians have been with the Interparliamentary Union at all times, to ensure that the parliamentary vote and action in these disturbing times are heard and that it works for the citizens. Dear colleagues, the Interparliamentary Union is now in a position to adapt to new challenges. Our new strategic framework, adopted in Madrid for the next five years, will bring together parliaments and MPs, including the executive branch of government, citizens, civil society and key global partners. It's impossible to work alone. We must co-operate with the executive branch of power, with citizens, with our voters, with civil society and with global partners, if we want to achieve our goals. This parliamentary synergy will help us focus on what is necessary in order to address growing social and economic inequalities, in order to address the growing digital division, weaken public confidence in national and global institutions, in order to fight increasing threats to parliament and the deterioration of democracy. Dear Parliamentarians, it is essential that each parliamentarian performs his part of the work, because we can adopt the best international declarations and resolutions, but without the commitment of the parliament itself, and in particular the commitment of each MP, or parliamentarian individually, these texts will be in vain. So it takes action. Dear Parliament Speaker, honourable parliamentarians, be assured that the Interparliamentary Union will continue to serve as one free global forum for dialogue, co-operation, parliamentary diplomacy and action. Let's work together and rebuild the world without division, without disagreement, a world that is safe and prosperous, a world that future generations deserve. We can do something to make a difference by serving the citizens. So we have to figure this out every day when we wake up so we can do something to make a difference. We're ready to do it and we'll do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-02-1.u11188	I thank His Excellency Mr. Duart Pasek, president of the Interparliamentary Union, for his address. Once again, I thank you for paying special attention to the Republic of Serbia to participate in marking this for us a very significant jubilee – 130 years of membership of the Republic of Serbia in the Interparliamentary Union. This concludes today's 7th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Thank you.
