ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8917	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens and citizens of Serbia, today we have before us a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on co-operation in the area of defence, signed in Rabat on 5 May 2021. The constitutional basis for the conclusion of this agreement is contained in Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides its international position and relations with other countries and international organisations. The entry into force of the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of defence creates a legal basis for the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Morocco. The agreement contains areas and forms of co-operation, provides for the possibility of developing co-operation in areas of common interest, through the conclusion of specific contracts in accordance with the agreement in question. It contains provisions on the protection of classified information and the costs incurred during its implementation, the possibility for the competent authorities of the parties to draw up an annual bilateral co-operation plan and medical protection provisions on the basis of it. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on co-operation in the field of defence, whose validation is proposed by this law, sets out basic objectives and principles on which co-operation in the area of defence between the two governments, or their respective authorities, will be based in order to contribute to the development of overall bilateral relations, as well as peace and security in the world. Also, the primary objective of the proposed law, i.e. the concluded Agreement, is to establish a legal framework that allows for further co-operation between Contracting Parties and their competent authorities in the area of defence - defence and security policy military-economic, scientific and technical co-operation in the military field, military education and training, military medicine, as well as other segments of common interest. Co-operation in the area of defence with the Kingdom of Morocco has the potential to further intensify and improve, and in order to achieve the forms of co-operation mentioned above, it is necessary to have a general defence co-operation agreement, which would legally regulate those issues in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Contracting Law and the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. Now we move on to the next point. So today, you have before you a bill to confirm the framework loan agreement LD 2070, between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the project loan of student housing. The loan framework agreement approved a 32m-euro loan. The overall goal of the project is to improve access to university education especially for low-income family students. The project's specific goal is to provide affordable student accommodation for 1,400 students through the construction of a new student home with 400 beds in Nis and a new student home with 1,000 beds in Belgrade. According to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, an annual competition for admission to student homes is reported on average every school year of around 19,600 students, which is more than the available number of beds in student homes that are 16.959. That is why the need to increase the number of accommodations in the student homes of the Serbian University Centres of Belgrade and Nis has been demonstrated by an estimated number of missing student housing facilities. Belgrade is about 1,000 missing accommodations, and Nis is about 400 missing accommodations. The sub-project is located within the University Technical Faculty's Technical Complex in Nis. The scope of this sub-project includes the completion of construction and delivery of equipment for the 11-story building with a attic and cellar. The total gross surface area of the building is about 12,000 square meters. The facility has so far been built up to the level of rough construction work. The main investment refers to internal works and installations aimed at functional completion of the building in order to obtain a useful permit for accommodation and housing of students, as well as furniture and necessary accessories. Subproject two, the University of Student City in Belgrade means building a new accommodation block of 24,500 square meters that will be located at the current location of the Student City. The main investments relate to construction works and planning of green areas, as well as furniture and necessary accommodation accessories for about 1,000 students. The potential social impact of planned investment is high, as it will have significant positive effects on the creation of educational opportunities for students, especially those coming from less developed regions and low-income families. It will contribute to the development of other social programmes set up by the government and the reduction of the elite character of higher education by enabling access to higher education to economically endangered students. Dear MPs, I hope we have a constructive debate on this agenda and we will support this legal solution. The next item is the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Amendments to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Harm the Ozone Cover. The Social Federative Republic of Yugoslavia ratified the Vienna Convention on the Protection of the Ozone Cover in 1990, while the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Harm the Ozone Cover ratified in 1991. The Republic of Serbia is the successor of these ratifications, and in 2005 it ratified four amendments to the Montreal Protocol until then. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is responsible for implementing the Montreal Protocol, as well as for all commitments undertaken after ratification. The Republic of Serbia has successfully implemented all measures of the Montreal Protocol concerning developing countries and has achieved very good results on the road so far. The Montreal Protocol has proved to be one of the most successful international documents in the field of environmental protection, which has produced very good results on the performance of the ozone envelope. In 2016, in Kigali, the Republic of Rwanda, the 5th Amendment to the Montreal Protocol introducing fluorinated gases with a greenhouse effect, alternative substances for substances that damage the ozone layer into the Montreal Protocol, in order to introduce for them the same measures as existing measures for substances that damage the ozone layer. These greenhouse gases do not damage the ozone layer, but they affect global warming and climate change. The Kigali amendment has so far ratified 124 signatories of the Montreal Protocol, including the countries of the European Union and the regions. The obligation of each country after ratification is to establish a system of traffic control of these substances, which has been established in the Republic of Serbia through the system of issuing import, export and authorisation under the Air Protection Act and the Regulation on the management of fluorinated gases with the greenhouse effect, as well as the conditions for issuing and exporting those gases, including the introduction of annual quotas. The introduction of quotas for developing countries begins in 2024, the base year for which the base level of consumption is determined, based on the average consumption of these substances in 2020, 2021 and 2022. Then there is a gradual decrease in consumption to a certain level by clearly defined dynamics. Another obligation is to submit an annual report on the consumption and use of fluorinated gases to the Ozone Secretariat and the Secretariat for the multilateral fund, which the Republic of Serbia is already delivering, and substances that damage the ozone envelope. Confirmation of this amendment is significant because the control of the consumption and use of fluorinated gases with the effect of the glass garden will contribute to the implementation of the Paris Agreement, i.e. the reduction of emissions of these gases and the global rise in temperature. After ratification, the Republic of Serbia will be able to apply for financial and technical support and assistance by the multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol, which will be of great importance in the EU accession process. Through the implementation of Kigali amendments and the introduction of control measures, we are preparing for a more stringent takeover, which is prescribed by the EU legislation on fluorinated gases. Given that fluorinated greenhouse gases are represented in many sectors, as an integral part of cooling devices and systems, one of the advantages for the development of the economy that ratifys the Kigali amendment, is the possibility of trading fluorinated gases with signatories countries. I hope that we will also have a constructive debate on this and that in the voting day you will support this bill. The next thing you know is a bill confirming an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on co-operation in the area of defence, signed in Belgrade on 9 June 2021. The entry into force of the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of defence creates a legal basis for the co-operation of the defence ministry of the two countries, as well as other forms of co-operation in the area of defence for which the parties are interested. The agreements contain areas and forms of co-operation, provides for the possibility of developing co-operation in areas of common interest through the conclusion of specific contracts in accordance with the agreement in question. It shall contain provisions on the protection of classified information and the costs incurred during its implementation. The possibility for the competent authorities of the party to draw up an annual bilateral co-operation plan and medical protection provisions on the basis of it. The Agreement provides for ways in which possible disputes, changes and ways of entry into force, termination of validity and cancellation will be resolved. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on co-operation in the area of defence whose confirmation is proposed by this law sets out basic objectives and principles on which co-operation in the area of defence between the two countries, i.e. their competent authorities, in order to contribute to the development of the two countries' overall bilateral relations, as well as peace and security in the world. In addition, the primary objective of the proposed law, i.e. the concluded agreement, is to establish a legal framework that allows for further cooperation between Contracting Parties and their competent authorities in the field of defence, defence and security policy, military-economic, scientific and technical co-operation in the military field, military education and training, military medicine, as other segments of common interest. In view of the fact that his degree of power ceases to be an agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on military co-operation signed on 12 April 2006. Cooperation in the area of defence with the Federal Republic of Germany can be assessed as good with the possibility of further intensifying and improving, and in order to achieve the areas mentioned and forms of co-operation, it is necessary to have a general defence co-operation agreement which would legally regulate those issues under the Vienna Treaty Law Convention and the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. For these reasons, and in order to further improve bilateral co-operation with the Federal Republic of Germany and the Kingdom of Morocco, I propose that the National Assembly vote the proposed laws confirming the concluded defence co-operation agreements with these countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8918	Thank you. Do we have competent committees? National MP, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8919	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, respected minister, fellow MPs, we were on the Committee on Finance, Budget and Control of Public Spending had the opportunity to hear all about the Framework Agreement of the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, which was just talking about how some tranches are withdrawn when it comes to the student housing project. I think this agreement is of great importance today because for the first time, almost 30 years later, first in Belgrade we will have, and then in Nis, building new capacities in student homes in Belgrade 1,000, in Nis 400 beds. The requirement, otherwise, in Serbia by students whose parents are unable to rent apartments in large cities to study children, but are talking to dormitories is 19,600 beds. So, Serbia's need, Serbia currently has 16.959 beds. This means that this particular lack of Serbia has indeed set out to improve when it comes to university housing. This money that the bank approves of 32m euros, and the whole project is worth 48.4m euros, is in fact defined by the budget adopted last year for this year by Article 3rd and the Law on the Budgetary System, and that is what the government of Serbia's plan is, regardless of the challenges that we find here simply every day when it comes to both Kovid 19 and the political environment, and what the government of Serbia has set for itself as a goal, it is that in the area of education it goes that way and withdraws certain funds. The advantage of this loan is that we can choose our own interest rate, whether we're variable or fixed, that we can choose when we're going to withdraw certain tranches, that we can withdraw the last tranche by December 31st 2026 and that simply what we're talking about paying off the loan is 20 years of repayment of the grace loan for five years of each tranche. So I think what's really in our future is that we want to show that those who respect us that we do nothing in the area of higher education, that they haven't done anything so far to facilitate the student life of young people, to give them equal access to study regardless of where they come from and who want students to enroll in a college. This is what is really important to us when we talk about the future of Serbia, the future of our children. That is why we believe that this proposal is indeed an agreement in today's debate will take its significant place, and we will be happy to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8920	Thank you. Since no one is reporting from the representatives of the committees, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8921	I will draw attention to the proposal for a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on co-operation in the area of defence, signed on 9 June 2021. It is a law that needs to round Serbia's and Germany's strong bilateral partnership by creating a legal framework that will allow intensive, advanced, innovative co-operation in the area of defence, in addition to the existing political and economic partnership. Co-operation in the area with the EU's most powerful country is a practical contribution to the realisation of the National Security Strategy, which says among other things: "Due to the altered geostrategic circumstances, the increasingly powerful impact of global movements on the security of individual countries, the security policy of the Republic of Serbia is based on an integrated and multilateral approach to security problems that affirm the concept of operational security." Special attention will be paid to building and strengthening a comprehensive multi-level co-operation policy. This primarily concerns content, bilateral, trilateral and multilateral co-operation with all international relations entities, especially in the area of the economy, to improve citizens' standards, accelerated EU integration, the preservation of sovereignty and territorial integrity. The National Security Strategy also determines that in order to build a more modern and efficient national security system, the Republic of Serbia will analyse and use good practice for EU member states. Also, the company is taking measures to increase interoperability with EU Member States' security and defence systems to improve its own security capabilities and capabilities. The proposed law on the agenda suggests a strong commitment by both sides to building bilateral co-operation in the area of defence. When it comes to good practice for EU Member States, Germany as a member of the Union, NATO, the UN, is a participant in many international missions where valuable experience has been gained. It has built strong and modern defence facilities, as well as the arms and military equipment industry, which is a classification in the order of countries whose experiences are valuable and can be effectively used to raise our defence capacities. The bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany are very good despite the different approaches to Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. There is an active political dialogue with developed co-operation in many areas, especially in the areas of economy and culture. About 232,000 Serbian citizens live in Germany. Taking into account both the second and third generations of Serbian emigrants, between 500 and 700 thousand Serbians live in Germany. An important feature of bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany is business co-operation that is on a steady rise. Germany is Serbia's most important trading partner, one of the most important investors and the biggest donor. In 2020, the trade rate was around 5.3 billion euros, of which exports amounted to about 2.2 billion and imports of 3.1. In 2019, the total trade between the two countries was 5.29 billion euros. Serbia's exports to the Federal Republic of Germany amounted to 2.21 billion euros and 3.08 billion imports. In Serbia, about 400 originally German companies employ slightly less than 60,000 workers. So far, 95 contracts have been signed between the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany. A brief review of our political and economic relations shows a irreversible upward path and a high level of co-operation that is perspective because there is potential for further improvement and development of bilateral partnership. By adopting the proposed law, we will create a legal framework to work dynamically to build our co-operation in the area of defence, which should reach an existing high level of political and economic co-operation. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Federal Republic of Germany in co-operation in the area of defence, whose confirmation is proposed, will undoubtedly improve mutual respect, trust, understanding of the two sides. It will contribute to the development of overall bilateral relations between the two countries and thus peace and security in the world. The construction of an advanced, mutually beneficial and long-term defence partnership is needed to exploit all the benefits that this type of partnership brings to the modern world, in which the progress of military technology is at the threshold to revolutionally change the perception and conduct of wars and to create a completely new kind of soldier, robot soldiers. In the near future of a combat operation will be conducted in a completely different way than the present classical one and that is not a far future. Serbia should move forward with revolutionary changes in the battlefields of the future, and we need to develop, in addition to our own capacities, co-operation with the world's most technologically advanced armies and build together the most technologically modern security challenges we face or face. This turn of the future is the most rational way to overcome the difficult heritage from beyond, but also closer to the past, such as the criminal bombing of our country in which Germany participated, and recognition of Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. Historically, a good example of this is precisely the French-German partnership that has been progressing to the extent of the creation of joint military units and the development of joint projects for the production of the most complex and state-of-the-art weapons systems, such as the German-French tank project. These two countries, despite the terrible legacy of World War II, turned to the future to help each other build defence capacities, instead of being a threat to each other. Serbian-German co-operation in the area of defence is an integral part of the Partnership for Peace that Serbia has joined. The legal status of German personnel in Serbia's territory in defence co-operation has been regulated by the SOFA Agreement since 19 June 1995. The main objective of the proposed law, namely the concluded agreement, is to establish a legal framework that allows for further co-operation between the parties and their competent authorities in the field of defence, defence and security policy, military-economic, scientific and technical co-operation in the military field, military education and training, military medicine, and other segments of common interest, given that its degree of power ceases to be in force between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on military co-operation, signed on 12 April 2006. The numbered in the area of co-operation opens up opportunities for advanced and perspective co-operation, for the transfer and joint development of the most modern technology in the area of military-economic and scientific and technical co-operation, for the exchange of experiences and confidential information that are crucial to the response to cross-border globalised security challenges, such as international terrorism and organised crime, and for the improvement of the military education and training system, which must be developed at a pace that is progressing technology. Military medicine is an area of co-operation that can bring a lot of benefits to both sides. In real combat conditions of operational medical facilities, expertise, experience and equipment depends heavily on the outcome of combat operations. The ability of medical facilities to save injured soldiers' lives, cure them, and the sooner they return to the units, the vital importance for the combat potential of each military unit. Maintaining morality is an effective task of combat. So far, co-operation in the area of defence with the Federal Republic of Germany can be seen as good, and for greater dynamics, intensity and improvement in the areas mentioned and forms of co-operation, there is a need for a general defence co-operation agreement that would legally regulate those issues. The geopolitical position, existing challenges and forms of security threat, as well as improving and raising to a higher level of defence capacity show that it is a real interest of the Republic of Serbia to further develop co-operation in the area of defence with the Federal Republic of Germany, particularly given the planned supply of arms, military equipment and complex fighting systems for Serbia's military needs from this country. On the German side, there is also an interest in co-operation with Serbia, which is the most significant country in Southeast Europe, a region in which Germany is politically and economically and safely present and of particular importance to the peace and stability of the European continent. We will support the draft law on the confirmation of this agreement in the voting day, as will the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on co-operation in the area of defence. I'd like to say a few words about this cooperation. This law will establish a legal framework for further co-operation between the parties and their competent authorities in the field of defence, defence and security policy, military and scientific and technical co-operation, military education and training, military medicine, as well as other segments of common interest. Serbia can offer the Kingdom of Morocco finished products from Serbia's defence industry programme, as well as services of our remont capacities. In addition to exporting military equipment funds to the Kingdom of Morocco, we can offer co-operation in the fields of training, education and training of members of their armed forces at the military academy, the University of VMA and courses in the training centres of the Serbian Army. For Serbia's security, it is of particular importance that following the adoption of the proposed legal framework, attention should be paid to a joint fight against terrorism that rests on a radical Islamic basis and to improve the security capacity of Morocco through mutual co-operation, so that the country successfully opposes extremists and terrorists in its territory and prevents their cross-border action. Serbia and Morocco face common security challenges, especially radical Islamic terrorism, which is particularly expressed in the Sahel area on the African continent, from which it shows a continuing trend of expansion and action towards the Balkans and the whole of Europe, as well as the Magreb area. Both Morocco and Serbia are on the way. Many extremists in Europe come from Magreb countries. Vehabism, an extreme conservative learning, is considered a fertile ground for the formation of an Islamic terrorist formation. During the 70s and 80s of the last century, Wahabism also arrived in Morocco. Among the terrorists of the Islamic state, including those who planned an attack in Barcelona, many have Moroccan roots. In 2015, a legal investigation centre was established, considered the main Moroccan anti-terrorist centre. Since the centre's work has broken down 46 terrorist cells in Morocco, over 1,660 Moroccans have joined various jihadist groups abroad. Most of them went to the Islamic state. In order to effectively counter such and similar security threats and challenges, military co-operation and exchange of confidential data between countries hit by cross-border international illegal activities should be strengthened. Serbia has a special interest in building a common strategy with Morocco to oppose radical Islamic terrorists and jihadists in the Maghreb area, as the main direction of their action will be directed towards Europe and across the Balkans in the coming period. On the other hand, it is Morocco's interest to promote co-operation with Serbia and to raise technology to a higher level of its military and intelligence capacity, in order to effectively counter the growing threat of terrorism and jihadism on its territory. The establishment of a legal framework for co-operation in the defence area with Germany and Morocco is the path towards the realisation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia in a work that determines that our country's security policy is based on an integrated and multilateral approach to security problems that affirm the concept of co-operation security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8922	Thank you. MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8923	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with associates, whenever on the agenda we have a topic of agreements and contracts, somehow you get some sense, at least in the general public, that these aren't some of the important things. They did. The main function of the National Assembly, in addition to the adoption of all laws, is to confirm the agreement. These are very important things, especially in the world of diplomacy and some daily life of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Diplomatic relations or one, I feel free to say, the diplomatic offensive that Alexander Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, had for the past 10 years, with all the capacity of their coalition, produced excellent results. Serbia's picture in the world has changed. If we go back only a few months, at the beginning of this pandemic, when total chaos prevailed in the procurement and distribution of vaccines, Serbia succeeded in a very short time to provide a large number of vaccines, and not only for its citizens, but precisely by dealing with this positive diplomacy and for all countries in the environment as a donor. So Serbia donated vaccines to both Montenegro and BiH and Northern Macedonia and many other countries. This resulted in very fast positive effects that all of us could feel in recent months. Personally, I, and most of our fellow citizens who traveled through Greece, who were transiting through Macedonia, met with one positive experience this year, which is that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia did not pay toll through Northern Macedonia. Of course, these are symbolic amounts, these are not great amounts, but this friendly feeling when you talk to them about how we came into this situation is a good positive effect and I see that they all praised the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Alexander Vukic to divide and donate vaccines to Northern Macedonia. Also, the consequences of these agreements that, of course, not all agreements are coming to the signing and voting in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, there are some agreements that have the authority to sign both prime minister and minister and that they have their own legal fact and that they do not have to come to the Assembly and a good part of such agreements and benefites of these agreements could have been felt by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who, through mobile telephony services now without Roma, could also have been used in BiH, Montenegro and Northern Macedonia, and we have had such a relaxed relationship with Greece since this year. When I say - Greece, it is for us from JS special story, because the president of our MP group, JS Dragan Markovic Palma, is also the honorary consul of Greece in the Republic of Serbia, and it is precisely pointing to these correct relations that everyone from their own level of government or the exercise of some political function can establish. In diplomacy everything is written, everything is written somewhere, and good things and bad things. What may not be great things for the Republic of Serbia in some macroeconomic relations, but certainly in micro they are, is that Dragan Markovic Palma this year organised the departure of 600 doctors and medical workers to Greece, so they were five days down, about 20 days ago, a thousand agricultural producers who, too, organised by Dragan Markovic Palme, had the opportunity to leave, as I can say freely on a reward trip, because it is a very specific activity. I can't compare them to the red line of covids, but if we have to bring out and reward people who have done something big in the last year for Serbia, it's certainly all the medical workers who have been on the red covid lines and all those people who do agriculture, because for them and when everything cares, the break was gone. So it's important that citizens understand the importance of all these agreements. In particular, we today have an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco in the area of defence. What I want to point out is that the Kingdom of Morocco has not recognised Kosovo's independence, which, for me personally and of course, for the complete Serbian people has the added value of this friendship. Today, we also had agreements on the agenda with countries that have recognised this separatist desire for unfounded independence, but that does not mean that we should not cooperate with these countries, on the contrary, we must co-operate with them, we must sign with them all agreements that go in favour of and benefit the Serbian people, because each agreement may be a small step, but certainly a step towards improving all these ties in diplomacy. Of course, which will at some point bring the truth to light, from the beginning of this today's presentation, which is that this series of 18 countries that have withdrawn recognition of Kosovo's independence will be even greater. If we need to talk about those 18 confessions, besides Alexander Vukic, we certainly need to point out Ivica Dacic, who was the foreign minister during that period. Today things are a little different, and we both, let's say, slowed down with this diplomatic activity that should result in a withdrawal of recognition, but the results achieved during that last period are not negligible. Co-operation with the Kingdom of Morocco has a long tradition of 64 years. What we need to vote today, this agreement, is specifically about military co-operation, co-operation, primarily in defence. When we say co-operation in defence, given that our geographical distance may seem and unserious, we may not be great forces, neither we nor they, but certainly co-operation between each country is not just about that word – the defence, it's a little broader term. In particular, this agreement says that there are training and military exercises, that there is the defence industry, that Serbia is developing very quickly and logistical support, information security, cyber defence, military health, etc. So, when it comes to the JS parliamentary group, we will certainly support this agreement. The next is the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment and conditions of the work of cultural and information centres. I must say in the beginning that the Russian Federation is also one of those friendly countries that did not support terrorists in Kosovo, one of those countries that has always, when it has been difficult to help our people. Throughout history, we've always had the hand of friendship, of which we've never done any harm. This Agreement, although from the culture field, gives reciprocally great authority to both sides, but such a relationship they need, can and must have friendly countries like us and the Russian Federation. Given the very desire of the peoples of Serbia and Russia with mutual knowledge of social and cultural values, a desire to develop these traditional values, the JS parliamentary group will support this Agreement. The next agreement is the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia on the project loan "student housing". So the main objective of this loan agreement is to increase capacity in student homes. A colleague of Alexander's just talked about it. So we get 1,000 new beds, 1,000 seats in Belgrade and 400 beds in Nis. Certainly, I do not want to enter into the details of this contract, a colleague from the economy has just explained all of this to detail, but it should be said that the government and the resolution ministry should be commended here by all of us MPs for the realization of such a project. I must also point out that in Vranjska Banja we have a university, a college that is related to tourism and hotelism, belongs to the Kragujeva University. In Vrnjačka spa we also have a determined high school when it comes to tourism and hospitality, so we made one whole. Why do I say that? All of us living in Vranjska Banja feel the benefit of the existence of the university and the presence of students in our city. Every university and every home we've talked about is actually a small factory, not only because of a large number of educators, professors and doctors working on them, but also, above all, I think of citizens who have circumstances because of jobs that do work, benefites precisely because of the presence of students, and very often their parents in our city. By the way, I want to take this opportunity a little bit and brag. In 2014, Vrnjačka Banja made 17 million income on the basis of a residence tax, this year, 2021, we have 51 million. Believe me, it's in the field of tourism, if we consider both Kovid and the pandemic, everything that's hit us is a great result. By the way, Vrnjačka Banja has registered in different ways over two million visitors this year. I think we are entering the very top when it comes to tourism in Serbia. The draft law confirming the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on co-operation in the area of defence – Germany is a great and military force in every sense of that word and it is no small thing that we and the Federal Republic of Germany sign any agreement. Of course, our relationship has lasted since 1878, where we established some of the first more modern and official relations between our two diplomacys at the Berlin Congress. These relationships are, it's a fact and we can't skip it, these relationships have been and interrupted from time to time. We had a situation that we had an open war with Germany during World War II, but life goes on and it's the beginning of this story again. We have to try all of us to get over these bad things and the negative experiences of history, not forget them, each of them is a special experience and a special school, but we have to cooperate. From this co-operation here we are today signing a very serious agreement that again concerns military co-operation, primarily in the area of defence. Also, I must stress one fact that the Federal Republic of Germany is the most significant trading partner. So he's one of Serbia's biggest investors and biggest donors. For example, the trade in goods with Germany amounted to 5.3 billion euros last year and puts Germany first. I must also point out that the German companies that are over 400 in Serbia employ over 60,000 workers. For all these reasons, the JS parliamentary group will support not only these agreements that I have talked about, but all other agreements that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8924	Thank you. Now the word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8925	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with his associates, we today have a series of agreements dealing with different areas. Regardless of what various areas are involved, they essentially have one common goal, which is to improve mutual bilateral relations, but at the same time the mutual development of each of these countries with which we sign today, i.e. if we confirm the laws on the signing of the agreement. I'll start with Morocco, because that's how it's arranged on the agenda when we look at the agenda points. The agreement concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco concerns co-operation in the area of defence. In the light of the proposal, it is clear what are the objectives and principles on which such an agreement will be based. I must say that national security and stability are certainly a prerequisite for the normal functioning of every country, including ours, in every segment of it. The proposed law defines the legal basis for military co-operation in defence and security policies, as well as co-operation in the field of military education, training, medicine, etc. A colleague mentioned earlier that this year marks the 64th year of establishing bilateral relations with the Kingdom of Morocco and this Agreement actually deepens and continues to implement all those negotiations on co-operation with the Kingdom of Morocco. In this context, I would refer to the fact that, compared to the previous period in 2020, exchanges with Morocco, or trade relations with Morocco, recorded one big leap, and, for example, in 2020 despite the pandemic, the total trade between our country and Morocco amounted to just over $30 million. In this regard, regardless of what we are essentially far from the Kingdom of Morocco, such a vision and military co-operation that further deepens other segments of co-operation can essentially mean connecting our country with the African market. I'd just mention in the context of the same thing if Morocco hadn't admitted so-called. only the declared state of Kosovo, but this part of Serbia, as the Constitution says, considers its territorial integrity. I think we should respect that. As far as Russia is concerned, the agreement we conclude with Russia concerns the establishment and functioning of cultural information centres on the territory of these two countries. The one co-operation initiative came from Russia in 2017. Generally, the strategic importance of Russia in total bilateral relations, with our country, does not need much talk because it is seen in all segments that connect our two countries, and we are connected by history and culture and mentality, and in that sense one agreement like this, in fact, means only the concreteisation of those relationships that essentially when we look at Russia, already exist. This agreement also regulates the way in which the cultural centre of Serbia, which will be established in Moscow, or the Russian Centre for Science and Culture, will be established in Belgrade and thus one and the other countries, as participants of such an agreement, work together on the care and culture and language, but also preserve their own tradition and history. We can say that such an agreement surrounds the overall co-operation that we have and is realised by units of local self-government with various Russian cities. For example, I come from Nis. In 2017, Nis established co-operation with the Russian city of Kaluga and it includes both economic and economic and different types of co-operation, which really mean in those situations where it is necessary to exchange and experience, but also opinions and other segments. In addition, Nis hosted the International Conference on Economic Co-operation between Russia and the Balkan countries two years ago, and this was a kind of vision for sharing and information, but also for concreteising them when visiting both countries. I will remind you, too, of the fact that 13 years ago the Russian Federation government hired special demining units, i.e. to remove the lag bombs from the airport and for these purposes allocated six million dollars, which is also the city of Nis, as well as the training of Nis airports, both important and important. Another agreement concerning military co-operation, which we are discussing today, is the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. For many years, Germany has been on the list of leading Serbian business partners and German companies are present in almost all segments of our economy and in all sectors of the Serbian economy. The result of such a presence is seen in a trade exchange of 4.8 billion euros over the past year. It can, of course, be further strengthened through the establishment of supply chain among Serbian companies, since German companies, due to the pandemic, are moving their production from geographically remote countries to Europe. In addition, Germany is Serbia's largest bilateral trading partner, both in terms of imports and exports, and German companies continue to invest in our country. According to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Serbia exported goods to the German market worth one billion euros in 2019, or imported 1.5 billion euros in goods. You will agree that this is not at all a small amount if we take into account the economy and the importance of the economy for everyone, even for our country. Taking into account all these indicators, it is clear that co-operation in the area of defence is an entirely natural follow-up to the events already established, which we have with Germany in various segments and is not negligible to the fact that it and in a political sense is an important step that our country is taking, especially if we consider that Germany can play a significant role on its way to the EU and that its support and understanding by Germany and how it can mean the way that awaits us. The next agreement is an agreement that we conclude with Ukraine, which concerns visa waivers. From the aspect of international law, i.e. in international relations, the conclusion of bilateral agreements liberalising the visa regime is also seen as a significant step in the development of relations between the two countries and the improvement of political relations, above all, because we know that visa liberalisation as the ultimate outcome certainly also has the development of economic, cultural, scientific and any other form of co-operation. By concluding such an agreement, the citizens of both countries are extended visa-free stays from 30 days over a period of 60 days, or 90 days over 180 days. In the light of one such law, which confirms this Agreement, it is stated that expectations of such an agreement are such as to contribute to increased economic co-operation between our two countries and I have no doubt that the result of such an agreement will indeed be that. Otherwise, our country's bilateral relations with Ukraine have been traditionally good so far, and I believe that there is a mutual interest in achieving such an agreement to deepen co-operation in all other segments of our lives. I have to say, I don't think anyone mentioned it today, that today is International Literature Day, and I think this is the right opportunity to talk about students, or to encourage them to think critically about the very importance of education. In that sense, this will be an introduction to my presentation on the agreement that we have with the Development Bank, i.e. the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement relating to the loan for student housing, which our country has concluded with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. The colleagues mentioned that it was the borrowing of a bank for the implementation of this project, which, among other things, allows access to university education for those students who may be in a difficult material situation and whose higher education may seem unattainable. Among other things, our country is already funding and training, but it also subsidises the cost of living of certain categories of students, so this is just a continuation of the story already being conducted in Serbia when it comes to education. The funds defined by this loan will allow the construction of a new Nis dormitory which provides a chance to study new 400 students and build a new student home in Belgrade for 1,000 beds capacity. According to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, more than 20,000 students are registered on average each year for an annual admission competition, well above the capacity that universities in Serbia and in student homes have. Here, I, as a former university student at Nis, cannot hide the satisfaction of making higher education more accessible in this way and thus allowing each of the students in a completely new way, through social life and through the discovery of some completely new experiences, perhaps those students who planned not to study now have other opportunities and other opportunities, which will certainly reflect one day on future generations that we will fail from these homes. The University of Nis has 14 universities in its composition and it is a very good intellectual basis for connecting students who leave the university with the economic community, the economic community, but also international institutions in which they may someday work. At this point, the Nis Student Centre provides accommodation services in its four pavilions and they have the capacity to accommodate 958 students. Then you realize the importance of building a new 400 beds. That's half of what the city of Nis currently has. The city of Nis allocates funds each year to reward the best students, but also to scholarship their studies. But personally, I don't think it's the essence of how much funding will be allocated, but I think the point is that students feel they've been accepted, that the community recognizes them and recognizes their efforts and work, and that eventually it meets its purpose. Finally, I will dare mention some of the successes of the University of Nis, risking to abandon someone in that list. School of Economics students and the great success they achieve in the business problem-solving contest organised in as many as 30 countries. Then, law school students at an international trial simulation contest. I personally participated in such competitions, and I think it represents an excellent form of co-operation and meeting students from other countries, and when students of a university in Serbia show themselves best, then you realize that the university really has its weight. Then, the students of medical school, the success of students of the Academy of Arts. We also have a number of scientists who are now lecturers at many universities around the world. The saying says, "The day is known in the morning." If we know that the university has so far failed many generations of successful individuals, including the former finance minister, including the chess team's selector, including MPs, state secretaries, scientists, then it is clear to us that I have no doubt that the justification of the funds we allocate for these purposes is entirely correct and good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8926	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8927	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, on the agenda of today's session, following the summer break, finds several draft laws confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the governments of some countries. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS parliamentary group -- "Three P" in the voting day will support these agreements, as well as other proposals from this session and vote in favour. In today's debate on the validation of international agreements in several areas, I will first refer to the fourth item of the agenda, i.e. the law on the approval of the International Loan Agreement with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, and for the purpose of the November residence. The agreement envisions the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia for the 32m-euro institution mentioned, and for the construction, or completion of the construction of new November homes, primarily in Nis and Belgrade. I don't think I have to explain how important and important it is to build such objects, both for students who come to our university centers in the province and for their families, and not just for the sake of financial relief, but for all the other benefits that they provide in the November homes. This segment of the November standard in these cities was in practice almost completely neglected, not for years and decades, but unfortunately almost half a century, if it is known that the last completely new dormitories in both cities were built in half the 1970s, so at the time fathers and mothers of today's students were born. True, the construction of a new facility in Nis began early in 2008, but has been interrupted several times so far, continued, and then interrupted again, due to a lack of funding flow and untrustworthy employed contractors. Only the most basic construction works have been carried out on this facility so far, and it has been standing so unfinished for years, to the shame of all of us and, above all, Nišlja. In the past two years, it has been a good will to finally finish this job in Nis, but this vicious disease of Corona has prevented us from doing so, so the planned funds for the facility have been redeployed for the construction of hospitals and health facilities throughout Serbia, which is partly and understandable and justifiable. This law should finally create a solid financial structure. We see that the republic will also give significant budgets of around 16m euros, so it can be expected that this facility will finally be completed in the nearer perspective and brought to the fore. From how important this is for Nis and the University of Niš, the best testimony is that it is in academic 2019. In 2020, more than 23 thousand students studied at the University of Nis. At the same time, according to the current competition for admission to November homes, the Studen Centre in Nis, in its four existing buildings, of which I recall the youngest building built in 1977, can receive only 948 residents, or slightly less than a thousand. It's an extremely low percentage, if it's known that this is about the most diligent students, who are trained in the burden of the budget. For the first time, they enter a certain year of study and have a high average rating, as well as that these competitions are re-registered for several years by two and three thousand interested students who would like to use accommodation in the November homes. When the new home is completed, with 400 beds, the situation will be significantly improved and for as many students we can expect to achieve even better results in their schooling, and their families will be relieved of a significant part of the material cost and care, all that brings November time. Since we see in this case that even the end of this investment will not solve the problem of November accommodation in Nis, I think that, in accordance with the material possibilities, we should think slowly about building further, new facilities, both in Nis and in other university centres, in the country, so that in some future we can achieve that all the valuable students who are being educated in the budget can at the same time have the right to home accommodation. I'll also provide some information that points to a great lack of student housing space. There are slightly less than 10,000 seats in Belgrade, which is certainly not enough for a capital such as Belgrade. Nis, as I've already pointed out, 958, and he's studying about 23 thousand students. For a place in the dormitory, they compete, on an annual level, two and a half to three thousand students. Then you can see from this how many students and young people want to be in a home accommodation, because of the conditions that home accommodation provides. Nothing better than our other university or university centers are in a better position. For example, Kragujevac has barely 771 places, Cačak 325, Bor 255, Užice 274, Novi Sad 2,663, Zrenjanin 208, Sombor 143, Subotica 802, Kosovo Mitrovica 1.135, Zvečan 46, Blace 112, Leposavic 384, a total of 17.634 places throughout Serbia. If we have information that more than 240,000 students are enrolled in studies in Serbia, then we can see how much we lack this space. For all things, I believe that this agreement is very important for the wider population of our citizens, and I believe that in the day of the vote, we will vote without a problem and vote, or we will verify this agreement. In addition to this agreement, several other agreements are on the agenda today. The defence co-operation agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany and the Kingdom of Morocco best shows and illustrates the policy of this government, to co-operate and build bridges of friendship wherever possible, and in Europe, but also on all other continents, both among the powers of the NATO Pact members and with the smaller countries with which we are bound by traditionally good relations in the previous time. The agreement with Ukraine provides for an amendment to the current visa waiver agreement, so that instead of the current maximum visa-free stay of up to 30 days in 60 days, it will be raised to the standard international standard of 90 days in 180 days. We traditionally have good relations with Ukraine and certainly this agreement should be supported and the visa-free regime provided for under the proposed agreement. The agreement with Russia on the establishment and conditions of cultural and information centres is creating an opportunity to open Serbia's cultural centre in Moscow, where I also don't have to specifically explain why this is important, because the state of Serbia with the state of Russia has long-sufficient interstate relations and we have the opportunity to make this agreement an even better co-operation in another segment, above all in cultural and informative. Since we consider it to be good legal proposals, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Three P" will give its support in the voting day for the adoption of these agreements that I have talked about and others about that I have not talked about. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session in the voting day and vote in favour. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8928	Thank you. The word has the vice president of the National Assembly Dr Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8929	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, chaired by a respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, is before us a series of important agreements that continue to be established, improving good relations with certain countries of the world, as well as a bundle of agreements relating to the country's specific regulation of obligations in the international community, as well as those agreements that provide funds for important projects in this country. As for the Agreement on Military Technical Cooperation with the Kingdom of Morocco, I would like to express my satisfaction that one step further on the road to improving relations with this country. In addition, as a witness to the importance of these relations, since I had the opportunity recently to be a member of a delegation with the National Assembly when visiting this country. Col. Martinovic, please reduce the tone that comes from your right. I'm sorry. So during that visit, although I had the opportunity to visit this country before, this was a visit after a long break where we were convinced of a very unusual readiness of the most important factors in this country to co-operate with the Republic of Serbia. During the two days of our visit, we were accepted at the highest level by the president of the parliament of one home, another home, the prime minister of this country and the most important ministers in the country's government. I was very positively surprised by the reception, but not just one quality diplomatic relationship, which is expected from a country that has such a long state and royal tradition, such as the Kingdom of Morocco, but I really felt one sincere emotion, one very respected respect, so I was very optimistic during the visit, but also after I returned. This agreement now actually represents only what is at that time both on our part and on their part highlighted and highlighted in terms of commitment. True, I was surprised by the degree of development this African country has achieved over the past 10 years, because it is something that is remarkable. True, it is a country that is on the African continent, but it is located on a very important geostrategic and geopolitical country, at the point of Gibraltar, which is based on Europe and which also has special relations with the EU. Just one detail about that visit. As we drove to the airport, we listened to the news, where our host of parliament was reporting, or giving a statement assessing the entire visit and where he was very excited, even startled. One sentence left in my memory. He said that we agreed so much, agreed and said that even together, the Kingdom of Morocco and the Republic of Serbia, through important projects, will participate in the development of Central and South Africa, therefore, of the African continent in the area. So it was an unusual statement that actually reflected the fascination of our host with the very visit, but that is, with everything we discussed and agreed. So this agreement, but also further establishing co-operation with the Kingdom of Morocco, as well as with all other Muslim countries, is strategically important. I must point out that it is of utmost importance, which is very noticeable not only on the subject of the Kingdom of Morocco, but also on the subject of the UAE, or co-operation with the UAE, then the relationship with the Republic of Turkey. So, these are all so important and strategic steps that especially come after a different atmosphere that we have had over the past decades, because in fact, to build such friendly relations with the Republic of Turkey, which has definitely shown the capacity and strength of a regional force in recent years, and then to get a great leader, such as Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to actually be a friend of this country, to help this country, including the numerous investments that we have by numerous investment factors from the Republic of Turkey, and all this again, bearing in mind all historical burdens regarding relations, emotions towards Turkey, Turks here in Serbia, given the centuries-old rule of the Ottoman Empire. So these are really very big, important, strategic steps to congratulate the very top of the country, first of all, the President, but also all the other diplomatic and government factors. It's actually the path of a country and the success of this country in diplomacy will be particularly measured at that part of diplomatic expenditures and activities that will show how many of us who haven't been friends to us, how many of us who have possibly been our enemies turned into friends, how many of us who have been neutrally turned into friends, or even how many of us our enemies have reduced their enmity and, finally, how many of our friends have increased their friendship. So these are parameters that, in my opinion, are of paramount importance and therefore the Islamic world or Muslim countries are actually this unsanitary material, or potential from which many, many friendships can be gained. It is only necessary to continue this course and, of course, follow the very top of the state and those strategies and frameworks that have been drawn up by other political factors. Today, looking at these agreements, I know it's an accident, but that coincidence reflects one broad orientation. One agreement is signed with the Kingdom of Morocco, the other with the Federal Republic of Germany, the third with the Russian Federation, the fourth with Ukraine. So we have one Muslim country, one Catholic-protestant and two Orthodox countries. This reflects exactly the width of the corridors that this country has drawn with its leadership in terms of building its relationships, friendships with countries around the world. This width promises, this definition is what should always be supported, and it will certainly bring real effects and real results in the medium and long term. The country that opens up both the idea and the phenomenon of opening is always a quality indicator, an indicator of freedom and a sign of power. He who closes himself shows impotence. The one who opens shows power. He who is insecure in himself closes himself, he needs to be barricaded. One who is confident of himself in every respect – politically, culturally and economically, it opens up and that's actually the point. That's what should actually be a queen of energy in building international relations on our country. In this context, it is certainly necessary to support the agreement with Germany and the agreement with Russia and the agreement with Ukraine. However, this, let me say, is the flashing of relations with different countries and countries of the world I would not like to overshadow the importance of building relations with neighbours. So this is a block that should be praised, which is going well, but unfortunately, the atmosphere in which this country is in terms of environment is not as we could praise the relations in the case of the Kingdom of Morocco, Turkey, Emirata, Germany, Russia, etc. So that's what should be further our focus attention. The question is, what do we want? Do we want to do what is best for this country or do we want to justify ourselves for something that is happening and to be satisfied with what we say – the other is guilty? That's very important. You'll always find an excuse, sometimes an excuse, sometimes an argument to say – it's his fault, now I'll fight him back twice and then we'll fight. Then it's not the interest of this country in the focus of attention. At that time, we have mostly the interest of an individual who makes statements, some parties or some policy represented by that individual. It's very important that we decide and it's not the same. So we can, and it's easiest to follow certain difficult statements, the hard words of a cheap nationalist patriotism to build a political picture or collect some of our daily-political points, but I'm sure that such a course and such orientation does not bring good to this country and it's certainly not true patriotism. Of course, I am fully aware of the sensitivity of relations between Serbia and Montenegro and as Bosniak and as a Muslim I am very careful there, especially when these relations, among other things, have a theme of church, a topic of faith, where emotion is particularly expressed and particularly sensitive, but certainly because of the responsibility I find myself in, both as Bosniak and as a Muslim and as a MP, I cannot ignore all these phenomena, not only in the segment of what applies to my community and my countrymen, but also in what is at the end and in the country where I live and any implications for the security of both this country and this country, but also in the wider environment. Of course, what is happening, especially in church matters, shows how sensitive it is. I'd just like to, given that today is not a topic, it may be another occasion, but to pull up double arches, and among other things I point out because we, at the time, had the honour of leading the Islamic community, passed the gogoth in 2007, 2008 and 2009. True, it's not the responsibility of this government, but it all happened in this country when the police with their boots and their pens set up and solved the imams in certain mosques. Now I'm saying, simply, that we have a real picture and that actually the only fair relationship towards ourselves, that is, to the other person or when we want to outsmart the relationship with each other, let's just turn around and see what it's like when it seems to be in any way towards us, you'll see that we'll always have a sensitivity and a sense of justice and justice. But it's not because of what I'm about to say right now, it's something else entirely. It's a common phenomenon, unfortunately, in a few cases, but one of them has drawn my attention. If so, the media reported that at the border crossing of Rožaj towards Novi Pazar, the president of the Bosniak Party, otherwise a National MP in the National Assembly, or the parliament of the Republic of Montenegro, Mr Ervin Ibrahimovic, was detained for nearly an hour, during which he was searched and treated in a way that was not appropriate to treat any citizen, especially one of the Bosniak leaders in Montenegro, a representative of the Bosniak people in Montenegro, a man with immunity, I suppose diplomatic, and certainly with the MP. So that's something that shouldn't be happening in this country. In our tradition, therefore, the state is like a household, like a house, the easiest way to be heroic on its doorstep. If we will reciprocate because of some of our differences with certain political views of individuals, parties or organisations, or politically expressed views in the National Assembly of the Neighbouring Country or anywhere else, believe me, ladies and gentlemen, it is neither a patriotic act nor a way of affirming the preservation and improvement of the interests of this country. Thus the earth is not built, neither defends, nor promotes. It's inappropriate, it can't happen, it's the country's border police can't do it, it's not supposed to do anyone. It is in this case the president of the Bosniak party, Ervin Ibrahimovic. I hear it's been with some other MPs from Montenegro, too, that's not good. It's not domestic to show strength on our doorstep. Everyone is powerful on their doorstep. Everyone has a mechanism to say - I won't let you in now. It's not even here, "I won't let you in." In the end, if someone has sinned so much, it is more honorable to forbid them to enter, and not I will not forbid you to enter, but I will harass you to realize that what you said politically or did or acted has consequences. That's very ugly. We must protect the police from any personal, party or any other political views. That's not right. Police must be professional and it must serve this country, the citizens of this country in the spirit of the value of the country's high and concrete interests. You see, in the Balkans otherwise, and elsewhere, but especially in the Balkans, you cannot build good relations with countries in the environment and spoil with peoples. True, I am further hit and interested, and it pains me that, among other things, my people, the Bosniak people live in both parts of Sandzak, both in the north of Serbia and in the south of Montenegro, but then we received promises from all sides, and without those promises, if the border has passed through the courtyards of a nation, through its national, cultural, spiritual and ethnic being, are we now going to use it for certain day-political purposes, so now we are going to punish it? So it's not right morally, ethically, it's not right culturally, but it's not in the interests of this country. So I would ask the authorities to simply no longer resort to this practice, that if someone did so on their own in verticalizing police administrations, to investigate, sanction and put an end to such relations. Secondly, it shows weakness. If the country that is the largest, strongest in the Balkans and by number and by military and by economic and other parameters, should fall to that level – and now I will give it back to you, I will harass your representative there. Please, it's something that's inappropriate, inappropriate. I expect it to never happen again. Understand, you insult an entire community, the people behind that man, the people who belong to that people. There must be feelings and sensitivity for such phenomena. On the other hand, there's a little time left, but I'll definitely welcome the funding for dorms, that's very important. Investment in the student standard is of strategic importance and in this respect, therefore, there is no doubt about support. I would like to commend the ministry on its determination to continue to complete the work on the study home in Sjenica. The project has stopped and I have received almost information from the minister that it will move rapidly to implement the completion of works on the study home in Sjenica, which is of paramount importance both for Sjenica and for the wider region. However, I also remind the ministry that it cannot be pushed under the carpet by a large, unexplored and not enlightened affair around the student home of the state University of Novi Pazar. So, as if it were almost ten years ago now, I remember Bozidar Djelic calling with a million euros that he brought to Novi Pazar for some elections and promised that student home. The building was reportedly built, in fact without allegedly, the building was built, but it never became a dormitory. We're getting unofficial, various information that there are some apartments, housing for professors, which is probably another kind of scandal because the university can't, or an unregistered home to deal with human beings, that it has hotel activities. So these are the things that actually show that we have one, a lot of garbage under the carpet. Therefore, I insist from the ministry that these inspections they send are not for the sake of form, but that they actually investigate it to the end and that we can get the information to the end of what it is and that the building that was built for the dormitory is brought to the purposes and that students get that building as promised, as it belongs to them and as they need it. Of course, all these agreements should be supported on voter day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8930	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8931	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Minister with associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group on the set of laws that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is discussing today. In fact, it's international contracts, six of them, which are different content. Four international agreements have a bilateral character, it's a word of improving relations in the area of co-operation with Morocco and Germany. Together with the Russian Federation, we sign a bill establishing and regulating the work of cultural and information centres and Ukraine, related to visa waiver. Two, one agreement has, let me say, our local and global importance, it is, to say, ecological character, related to reducing the production and consumption of substances that damage the ozone layer, but it is important for us here in Serbia too, but also to the news of this law, or what it means on a global scale, given that it is a global phenomenon and a danger to the future of humanity. In the end, we have, to put it this way, a law of formal financial character, funding funding a student housing project, but which is extremely important for the education system of the Republic of Serbia, especially for the higher education sector. I want to say that the Socialist Party of Serbia will vote in favour of all these laws, because, as I mentioned, in relation to their content, either bilateral relations with certain countries are being improved, or local and global problems are being solved, or a higher education system is being improved, and we believe that all of this is very important. When it comes to education, I would like to send my congratulations to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development on the good organisation and the good start of the new school year. It should not be forgotten that we are still at the time of Corona, which is already, here, for more than a year and a half and that the education system has to adapt, to say, to health conditions, to the situation that exists, and I think that the Ministry of Education, along with the crisis staff of the Republic of Serbia, has found the best model for education to work, to continue teaching, to gain knowledge, and yet to take care of health as the most important things of every student, teacher and society in general. I would also like to commend the Ministry for asking all schools in the Republic of Serbia this year to begin the first school class by intonating the anthem "God of Justice". It should not be forgotten, it should remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly states that the features of the state are coat of arms, flag and anthem. That the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia is "God of Justice" and it is quite logical that the first school class at the beginning of each school year begins by intonating this anthem. It is an anthem of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is an anthem of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the specificities that our Republic has and is part of the identity of each of us and it is not only the experience of the Republic of Serbia, many countries in the world and the beginning of the school year and other manifestations, let me say, and other events in the life of one country use, if I can use that word to intonate the anthem, because it is part of the mark of each country in the context of education, and I think it is very good and I think that it should absolutely be part of all future years of the start of the new school year. Part of the education system and part of the laws that are before us today are also the draft law on the validation of the Framework Loan Agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the project loan of student housing. Behind this broad, let me say, the title is a simple explanation, it is a project that improves the standard of students in the Republic of Serbia, increases the possibility of more students living in dorms, increases the possibility that more students start higher education, and thus obtains a degree from one of the universities, i.e. the University of Serbia, higher schools of vocational studies. In particular, this law refers to the construction, completion of a dormitory and the construction of a completely new home. The loan is worth 32m euros and this law provides for the completion of the construction of a student home in Nis, whose size is for 400 missing places, whose area is 12,500 m2 as well as for the construction of a student home in Belgrade, a completely new home within the Student City, in the area of the Student City, whose area will be about 24,000 m2. The completion of this project envisions an increase in the student city's accommodation capacity for 1,000 more new places. At the beginning of the story of this law, it should be said that the funds of the Council of Europe are not the only funds needed to implement this project. In fact, the total cost of this project is 48.4m euros and they include these 32m euros. It should not be forgotten that the project is implemented together with local self-government, that bank loans finance works, equipment, part of services, while the Republic of Serbia finance building permits, administrative fees, communal infrastructure. Water, sewerage, electrical installations, then land, including other non-financial contributions. It is important to note this in order to understand the essence of this project. When it comes to Nis, some of the living circumstances of building that home began in 2009. At that time, as Minister of Education, I opened work to build that home. I'm sorry it hasn't been over since then, but for the state, it's better for students than ever, and I'm glad they're finally provided and full of resources to bring this project to an end. For Nis, it's also very important for the whole Nis area when it comes to higher education. It's also important for Belgrade. I'm going to mention once again, building a brand-new dorm room in the Student City area, 1,000 places will provide the possibility that as many students as I can say, it's easier to complete the studies she's writing down. It is important to know that the Student City is one of the most famous academic settlements in the Balkan area. The current capacity is about 4,500 seats. In ancient times, in the 1980s there were 7,000 places in the Student City. It has been said that there are about 3,000 illegals at the time and that the Student City is the largest academic settlement in the Balkans. Later, by reconstructing through multiple times, the number of places has been reduced, but the conditions of study have been improved. So now the number of seats in the Student City is 4,500. This new home will solve this problem of missing places. Why do I mention missing places? In the annual competitions of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development for the distribution of space in student homes for the last four years, on average 15% of students studying at the state universities of the Republic, whose education is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, who have applied for a home competition in Belgrade and Nis, did not receive accommodation due to insufficient accommodation facilities in these university centres. The number of students who can't get accommodations is actually higher. In order for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to understand the situation of what I'm talking about, I'm going to mention some information that best illustrates it. In fact, about 250,000 students are studying in the Republic of Serbia. Out of that number of students, 72.59% of students were studied, and nearly 50% of those students received education from the Republic of Serbia's budget. In dorms, that's the point, she studied slightly above 19% of students studying at the state universities of the Republic. It is important to know that these students are financed by scholarships from the budget, and housing in the student home and diet at the student restaurant is co-financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. For students and parents, this is a very, very important segment of life, because it is a fact that both students and parents in many situations identify or resolve this issue of study if they are in a position to pay for housing costs. You know, this number of students enrolled in state colleges isn't all on the budget, but I mentioned that it's almost 50% on the budget. For many of them, it is very important to get the opportunity to live in one of the November homes of the Republic of Serbia, as it is a condition of education. Of course, it's not just a problem for each student individually, whether it's a student or a student, regardless of the gender, but it's a question that matters to their parents because it's part of the budget. It's very important that these prices are low. I'm going to mention only one piece of information that speaks best, how much the state cares about students. In this moment, the capacity of all student homes in the Republic of Serbia and has 39 student homes organised in eight student centres. There are 29 student restaurants. To understand the state subsidy and how the Republic of Serbia helps students, I will mention public data on the price of student centre services. Namely, breakfast in the dormitory costs 40 dinars, lunch 72, dinner 59 dinars, and the price of accommodation, depending on the category of home and room capacity ranged 1,370 to 2,320 dinars. Of course, it's part of the money paid by the student. What the state pays is far more. It tells how many countries are actually defined to help as many high school graduates get the opportunity to study. Namely, the right to accommodation in a university for the accommodation of students has students of higher education institutions whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, that is to say, an autonomous province or units of local self-government and not only those enrolled for the first time in studies of the first, second, third-degree and whose education is financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Logically, they are citizens whose residence is not in the seat of a higher school institution. This is important to mention because it refers to students coming from different parts of the Republic of Serbia. To figure out what space this is, given that these data are familiar, I wouldn't want to quote them, about the number of places. I only mention that student centres exist in Nis, Užica, Čačka, Bor, Kragujevac, Novi Sad Student Centre, and homes in Sombor and Zrenjanin, a student centre in Subotica, a Pristina student centre based in Kosovo Mitrovica, that it is a very large number of objects with a number of seats. Of course, we are talking about this loan, but the fact is also about this law which solves the partial problem of missing places in Belgrade and Nis dormitories, but the fact and Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will certainly take care to improve the student standard in other university centres, to increase the number of places, the number of places they would have the opportunity to study. Why do I mention studying? It should not be forgotten, I think it is very important to point out, that in this way it helps all those students who are members of a low-income family to get the opportunity to enroll and continue their education. It helps to say, and their objectively one social integration in society, the quality of their education is being helped. For those who, MPs and other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who once had the opportunity to spend part of their lives in a dormitory during their studies, they can understand how important it is for the state to care for students and how important it is for the state to improve student standards. With circumstances, I have spent a significant part of my life in the Student City and as a regular student of course and as a graduate, and I must tell you that these are the most beautiful years of my student life, and I am very pleased to remember all these years because the Student City has given students that time, not only an opportunity to meet colleagues not only from Serbia but also from other parts of the world, but also from other parts of the world, but also the possibility that student homes include more different activities and more different services provided by the student centre and, of course, the possibility of housing, the possibility of eating, but also the possibility of learning. There are libraries in dorms, there's a Central Library, there's a House of Culture Student City. At the time, it was an opportunity and today it is an opportunity for all known intellectuals from Serbia's social, economic, political life to be guests, to talk to students. It is an opportunity for students to learn about different scientific disciplines, to learn about the content of the work of certain theatres because they were also hosting, to get acquainted with film art because they had organized the screenings of films from different countries of the world. In one word, they get full education, not only what they learn to finish a certain college, but to get an education that will help them later in life. It's very important that students have the opportunity to live in a dormitory. I mentioned all these student centers. I think it's very important. Serbia's goal is and this government is doing great, creating a rich country, and the country cannot be rich unless it has an educated population. I don't just mean higher education, I mean all levels of education because experience and statistics from other countries of the world shows that knowledge is the greatest capacity a country has. I've spoken several times, and I'm going to say it again, almost everything in the world is known and predictable, I can determine the capacity, but what's unknown is human knowledge. In this global world that exists, every country will only have its future if it succeeds in improving its knowledge, and that knowledge is intruding in the economy and other areas of life, providing new jobs. Simple knowledge implements into the future. It's only possible, of course, if we have educated people. The quality of our education system is that there is one social passing thanks to projects like this. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their property, can enter the university and finish primary, master and doctoral studies and succeed in life. I say, knowledge is the greatest capital that has one society, and it's important for the quality of life of every single person. I think this is a great thing that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of the Republic of Serbia is doing, that is, so committed to the government to improve the quality of students' standards. Of course, it's not just about housing, it's not just about learning conditions, it's about knowing that the state pays also the health needs of students, it's about resting facilities. In one word, this system of student standards that provides quality of life for students in Serbia is highly developed, very high quality and that's good for us. There's something else important to say about this law. Not all places in dorms are just for one type of student, it should be said that 10% of the students with special needs are provided there. This is extremely important from the point of view of the equality of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and again the opportunity to study. It is important to know that a number of places in student homes are also provided for students from other countries, whether they are students who are part of certain bilateral contracts in the area of higher education or project realization such as "World in Serbia", which began 10 years ago, where students from the countries of the former Unclassified Movement have the opportunity to finish schooling. It improves their quality of knowledge, but it also improves bilateral relations. Since the time for my presentation is up, I would like to say once again that our parliamentary group will vote for all these laws. I have devoted most time to this law regarding student standards, and my fellow MPs from the SPS Group will talk about other laws in particular. In any case, in the voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will vote for all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8932	Thank you, Professor Obradovic. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need to adopt the act from the agenda as soon as possible. We're going to go to the list of signed up for the word. The first reported is Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8933	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected ministry representatives, co-workers and fellow MPs, numerous bilateral co-operation agreements that we have on the agenda today are evidence of a wise policy led by the summit of our country and the president and the president of the government and the foreign ministry. What I particularly want to point out is co-operation in the field of defence with Morocco. Our country and the former countries in which the state of Serbia was located, primarily I think of the SFRY, had a very good diplomatic relationship with all Muslim countries, this is the development chance of our economy. Thanks to the 2012 policy, we have good co-operation with almost all Muslim countries. This defense agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco is only proof of that. Our companies are traditionally present in these markets and when it comes to food, and when it comes to the dedicated industry and when it comes to building operations and when it comes to the textile industry, and I think now has a chance for our IT industry. What I particularly want to point out is that our companies, that the state of Serbia is a major producer and exporter of halal food, are a major halal market and defence agreements are very important, which give additional security to investors from our country and companies that export to those markets. With exports, we'll raise the standard and increase the number of jobs. Especially what I want to point out is to connect with non-classified countries. In the 10th month of this year, there will be a summit of non-classified Belgrade, and that is proof of a reputation for the international scene our country has. As for all agreements, the Justice and Reconciliation Party as the strongest Bosniak party will support them in the voting day, and I would especially like to highlight the loan for student homes. Education must not be the privilege of the richest people. We need to provide education for all citizens and citizens, all our children must have an equal chance and therefore they are very important dormitories. We all know how much renting one apartment, one garage in Belgrade costs. That can't afford enough of our families. But when we have good dorms here in Belgrade, but also in other student centres, then everyone will definitely see their chance at study. Human resources are our country's greatest potential and the richest countries are those countries that have capable managers, which have good managers, which have this good human resource, and the base for these managers is in students. I especially want to mention the New Market dormitory. I've mentioned it several times, and we've discussed it with the minister, I think the Ministry of Education has carried out some of the activities, they've sent an inspection. What we're interested in is seeing the results of that inspection. New Pazar is a major student center, has two universities. Unfortunately, the state university is currently shaking up some affairs, and I expect the ministry to react, believe in the ministry, and I expect these affairs to be resolved. We have another university, which belongs safely to the best universities in the region and in our country, is the International University of Novi Pazar, and all of us who come from Sandzak are proud of that university. Once again, in voting day, we will support all agreements. As far as the Montreal Protocol is concerned, I would like to point out that thanks to the work of Minister Vujovic and the Ministry of Ecology, ecology has indeed become a top topic in our country. Because, you know, when you talk about some topics, you don't talk about those topics that you think you can't get rid of. You and your ministry have proven that wild dumps, that the problem of environmentalism, can be solved, can be solved. That's why the citizens recognized it, and that's where these initiatives come from, whether they're well-intentioned or that maybe some opposition is trying to abuse them, but you've shown that some of the things that we thought were impossible have become possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8934	Thank you, dear colleague Tandir. The next on the list is Honourable MP Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8935	The moves the SNS regime is working in foreign policy are often such that they cannot be resented and many of these things are things that must be done, no matter who holds power. However, what bothers us from the opposition is when you start smoking and explain that what is a dictatorship and what is the pain of our country, which has taken a long time, is actually co-operation. The agreement with Germany in the area of co-operation is not co-operation but an occupation dictatorship. This is best seen when we compare it to an agreement on the same subject with the Kingdom of Morocco, where Article 8 of that Agreement states that when soldiers of the Kingdom of Morocco appear on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, they are subject to criminal and legal responsibility for the violations committed in our country. By contrast, in Article 10. The agreement with Germany, the German soldiers when they find themselves on our country's territory, are not subject to criminal and legal responsibility for the violations they are about to commit. Why? Because since 2008, both de facto and de jure have been on the territory of KiM occupation soldiers, contrary to international law, and as such cannot co-operate with the land they occupied unless they impose dictatorships on her. So I will not vote for this agreement because it is an occupational measure and because it is the continuity of German politics towards us and because those five billion that they invest in Serbia are something that is a fig leaf for the nakedness of hell that they have done to this people for the last 120 years. We remember Germany well and its Saltate in 1914, in the form of Austro-Hungarian soldiers in Machva. We remember the same people well, i.e. their descendants in 1941 in Kragujevac. We remember well that the horror we experienced as a people in Jasenovac was done because Germany made it possible for its allies. We also remember that in 1999, that Germany broke its Constitution and for the first time in many years and many decades, because because of the horrors it staged throughout Europe in the Second World War, it was limited by the Constitution that it would not act with its army outside its territory, it first violated it on us in 1999, and in 2008 their army supported illegal anti- international law secession and secession of KIM from Serbia. And today nothing changes in their politics. And today they continue to treat us like an enemy, as an occupationist. And today we cannot cooperate with them. That's why it's hypocritical of this agreement and that's why it's not called what's supposed to be called. How unscrupulous, shameless, brazen policy of Germany towards us when any of their representatives appear here, just imagine, since what happened to the Serbian people in World War II is equally, almost equally, percentageally perhaps greater than the evil that Germany has done to the Jewish people as a state. Imagine, for example, in 1999, Germany took part in the bombing of Israel with its planes. Imagine that today Germany stands for the secession of Palestine from Israel and that their soldiers on that ground allow Hamas to carry it out, just as their soldiers on KIM ground make it possible for Kurti. So imagine that insolence and insolence. It is the real face of Germany and Germany has played for decades that it has been dedicated, however, when it showed its first face it has shown to the Serbs, because we are allowed to be the German as they really are. So let the stories of our economic co-operation go, let the stories of the fine Germans who take care of the workers in our companies here. Remember, for example, that the fine Germans in 1941 to 1944 defended our miners in Trepca from ballistics. Only, those fine Germans were soldiers of the Vermacht and participated in the occupation. So, the Germans and when they're nice if they're occupiers, they're occupiers. The defence co-operation agreement is not a co-operation agreement, but it is our duty to put up with the occupier and all his dictatorships. What the SNS regime is doing is the same thing Mr. Nedic did when he had to endure various insults and various nonsense from various German soldeics in this area to preserve the biological mass of the Serbian people. That's why I don't blame you, but I resent you for not telling the truth. Well, I can't even blame you for that, because I know that from the position of the ruling majority you can't do that, but today someone in this assembly had to do it, and I accept responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8936	Thank you. The next on the list is distinguished Mr Branimir Jovanovic, president of the SDPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8937	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, respected representatives of the ministry, co-workers and colleagues, I will today only in accordance with the time I have available to talk about the agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, as it allows capacity to increase by 1,400 more seats in Serbia's student homes. In any case, he is justified for the very fact that in Serbia, about 19,500 students are competing for student accommodation in Serbia annually, and that capacity is currently around 17,000 seats. Student homes provide and represent one important item and savings in the budget of each student, or his family. When a student is unable to afford to rent an apartment in the city where he is studying, and what a good solution from that financial aspect. We all know that university centers are concentrated in large cities and therefore the cost of living in these cities is higher, so that the student home can always represent one good alternative solution. As a student, I lived in a dorm school and ended up living in a dorm and I can say that in addition to that financial aspect, the student home provides much more benefits for students. First of all, they can count on restaurants, libraries, reading rooms, sports fields, and a very rich social life. So, living in a dormitory gives students a good experience, provides a rich social life, and a useful school of life. Although over the years it has been invested in renovating and improving accommodation due to the number of students the need for new homes is still expressed and therefore investment in expanding existing capacities is important and is always welcome. We understand that more highly educated people are needed, and the fact is that in one generation about 40% of young people are enrolled in colleges. It is therefore justified to build, i.e. to increase student accommodation. It is also important that funds are allocated not only to the accommodation of students in Belgrade but 400 seats are assigned to Nis. It just shows the state's determination to invest evenly in all parts of Serbia, not only in Belgrade, but also in other university centres. Also, building new homes with them has significant benefits because it works in accordance with modern needs, with modern standards, from modern installations to modern equipment, so that the quality of life in new student homes will be high-level. I would especially point out that homes will have 10% of their capacity, places that are adapted to students with special needs. And that's where we showed once again that we're thinking about the social dimension when we're talking about student life. Building dormitories means meeting our obligations to young people to make university education available to everyone. We in SDPS often say and insist that we must be a society that gives everyone equal chances of education, regardless of their material status. These investments are of paramount importance for the future of our education, but also for the future of our country. It shouldn't be essential that when young people are educated, or that we provide them with excellent conditions for education, so when they are educated to go abroad, the point is that they stay here. After that, we need to create such conditions for young people to get well-paid jobs after colleges, to be the engine of the development of our society, both economically and culturally. It's the only way we're going to achieve this concept that we're now doing in part, and one of the steps, one of the preconditions is just what we're doing today, which is that we're doing to improve student content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8938	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Next on the list, sir, the Vlad Dwarf.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8939	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will focus my discussion on two draft laws confirming the defence agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco and the Federal Republic of Germany, which the Republic of Serbia continues its tradition of good bilateral relations and co-operation in the area of defence with many countries in the world, all in order to strengthen the security, defence system of our country, but also to strengthen Serbia's position in the modern collective security system. With the Kingdom of Morocco and the Federal Republic of Germany, certain types of military co-operation have been achieved both through their participation in KFOR units in line with the Kumanovo military-technical agreement and through various types of military co-operation where the Serbian Army took part, such as joint military exercises, seminars and education. The adoption of these two defence agreements draws closer to defining and establishing general principles and procedures for co-operation based on principles of equality, reciprocity and common interests in defence and security policies of military-economic co-operation, scientific and technical co-operation, in the military field, military education and training, as well as military medicine. So far, about 30 bilateral agreements have been concluded in the field of defence, which contributes significantly to strengthening our country's defence capacities through various types of exchanges of experiences, expert exchanges, military exercises, technology exchanges, professional education and so on. These agreements are extremely important for the Republic of Serbia. Given that our country's defence policy is based on military neutrality, but at the same time on co-operation with other countries and international organisations. This is exactly the kind of balanced approach that provides us with the possibility of quality military-technical co-operation, with countries of the East and West, with Russia and China, the United States, but also with EU countries and other countries and regional organisations. Co-operation in defence with foreign partners contributes to the development of the two countries' overall bilateral relations, particularly taking into account the fact that this type of co-operation builds a relationship of trust and better understanding between the two countries. Joint activities and exchanges of experiences strengthen the capacity of the defence system by upgrading the defence system for mutual benefit. The facts suggest that such co-operation is necessary, given that we are rarely faced with major security challenges from natural disasters, through migrant crises, to terrorism and threats to global security and in such situations is extremely important international co-operation, but also the assistance of countries with which the Republic of Serbia has active military co-operation. Tactical exercises as one of the direct and publicly visible instruments of military co-operation have become an integral part of the activities of the Serbian Army, so in recent years we have had the opportunity to see a series of regional format exercises in which the Republic of Serbia participates. Then, exercises under NATO's Partnership for Peace programme, military exercises with the Russian Federation, which host military exercises of air and paratroopers, and then military exercises with anti-terrorism scenarios. It is extremely dynamic military co-operation with neighbours of NATO members, with whom bilateral exercises are held. With Hungary, the training of the river fleet, training with Romania was maintained by the training of the air control and control forces, including interception with hunting aircraft. An exercise was held with Bulgaria to target artillery and rocket systems intended for the PSC. How much does the Republic of Serbia contribute to international military co-operation, also confirms the fact that the Serbian Army participates in UN-led missions, as well as EU missions, which contributes in particular to improving the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia in the framework of the EU's common security and defence policy, as an important part of the EU accession process. I cite all this because of a clear confirmation, regardless of criticism and on several sides that the Republic of Serbia is consistently implementing the declared strategic commitment to military neutrality, because I am deeply convinced that only such a policy provides quality and long-term co-operation with all major international relations entities. The international military co-operation of the Republic of Serbia has been significantly intensified over the past few years, which also contributes to the reform of the overall defence system, as well as to raising the level of operational and functional capabilities of the Serbian Army, resulting in strengthening the position in the global security system, where the Republic of Serbia is certainly recognised as a reliable and responsible partner. The Republic of Serbia is permanently defined for peace, but is also responsible for a state that cares about its state sovereignty and territorial integrity. Due to continuing security challenges, both at regional and global level, Serbia is committed to strengthening the system of national and public security. In this context, I also observe a constant improvement in our army's military-technical equipment, as well as an improvement in the conditions of the lives of officers and soldiers. These two defence agreements with the Kingdom of Morocco and the Federal Republic of Germany continue a good practice of international military co-operation, which our country carefully and thoroughly implements by maintaining, above all, a policy of military neutrality with co-operation with all countries of the world, in order to prevent and recognise risks and preserve global peace. The SPS parliamentary group will support adoption in the voting day, both these two agreements I spoke about and all other proposed laws from this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8940	Thank you, Mr. Squid. Let's move on, Mr. Milletić's on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8941	I thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Krkobic. Dear Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly I represent the United Peasant Party, and selected from the list Alexander Vukic-For our children. As so far, I will talk about this point, specifically about Nis, because that part of Serbia is about it, but it needs to be done even more. Finally, it comes to the conclusion of the start of the Niš Student Centre, one part of it started long ago in 2009, and it will finally be completed, done, for the purposes of all of our young people who will finish college in Nis. One of my kids was at that Student Center, where there was a possibility, because she was a good student. The conditions are really good, quality, and long-time director Mr. Rajkovic, it works extremely well and runs this Student Centre in Nis. One of the important things is the possibility of ending one starting part, where it will have close to 400 new places for future students. It's a big deal for all the citizens of Nis, for southeastern Serbia, because it will give the possibility to good students who have no financial opportunities to secure their own accommodation, not to pay private accommodation. In this way they provide themselves with the existence and opportunity to complete colleges, to work in the territory of Southeast Serbia, on the territory of Nis or some of our municipalities, and to create their families there, develop their country, develop their landscapes, and thus help the country Serbia. I think it's a good and big deal for all of us who are apart from Belgrade, and Nis will continue to build those 1,000 more places, that it will be completed, as I point out, Nis is a great opportunity for the development of the southeast of Serbia. Once again, as an MP for the United Peasants' Party, I will vote in favour of this proposal for an agreement, and I will vote in favour of all proposals for the agreement. I must say, I thank the government of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia and the citizens, because I have repeatedly appealed and called for a part of the way from Malcana loop to Nis, this is now done, where future students and all citizens will be able to go on a good path. Thanks again and lived Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8942	Thank you. The next is Samira Cosovic. He's not here. Dr. Crescent. Nina Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8943	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with associates, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today, among other things, we have a law on confirming amendments to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that damage the ozone envelope. I've talked more than once about protecting the environment and climate change that are from the impact on our planet's life. In this context, we also see the need to protect the ozone layer as a source of life. The ozone layer contains high ozone concentrations that absorb between 93 and 99% of the sunlight of high frequencies, or ultraviolet light that is harmful to the whole living world on earth. The ozone layer extends to 10 to 50 km above the ground and man has significantly disrupted the integrity of the ozone layer with his activities, especially with the development of industry and producing substances that directly threaten the envelope. The dramatic state of the ozone envelope was recognised by the UN, whose Serbia is a member, so in 1985, the Vienna Convention on the Protection of the Ozone Cover was adopted. As the need for an even faster reduction of substances that damage this cover was observed in 1987, the Montreal Protocol on substances that damage the ozone layer was adopted. Serbia has also confirmed the current amendments to the Montreal Protocol in 2005. The Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Agreement was adopted in 2016 and refers to the precision of the obligations of signatories to reduce the consumption of substances that damage the ozone layer. So far, the amendment has ratified several countries signatories of the Montreal Protocol, so that today, by adopting this law, we will put Serbia on the list of signatories and I hope that we will be responsible for solving problems that cause permanent and dangerous damage to the ozone envelope. Our country here has the treatment of a developing country and assumes the obligation to introduce control measures to consume harmful substances for the ozone layer. The reduction in consumption of this amendment is armed and will be carried out in succession over periods. Thus, the consumption of harmful substances must be reduced by 10% to 2029, then by 30% to 2035, and all in order to reduce by 80 percent by 2045. We hope that the ozone shell will survive by then, as will all mankind. Every year, on September 16th, this current month, the global day of protection of the ozone layer is marked, and the purpose of marking this day is to raise awareness of the need and protection of the ozone envelope that keeps the world alive on earth. Given the perceived threat of global warming, resulting from excessive greenhouse gas emissions, members of the international community are taking a number of legal initiatives to reduce harmful gas emissions. Since the International Community still considers Serbia a developing country, it is good that we have a designed environmental protection policy, which will give us more favourable results, especially in an economy that otherwise suffers major problems due to the intensity of harmful gas emissions in production processes. The application of the National Ozone Cover Protection Programme in our country began with a delay compared to other developed countries. However, we have been expelled from use by hundreds of substances that damage the ozone layer with the provisions of the Montreal Protocol. As a state, we have, above all, committed ourselves to reducing the consumption of the remaining substances that damage the wrapper itself. Therefore, the adoption of this amendment law on the Montreal Protocol will make another good step on the road to a healthy planet, allowing Serbia to follow trends in developed countries when it comes to air protection. I must point out that the Montreal Protocol has prevented people from burning the land with their negligence and the race for money, as well as material goods, and thus the Ozone Covering Day is so important to all of us. The problem of the ozone layer was simpler than the climate problem. It was very easy and easy to create an alternative to its protection and I think it's a great example, i.e. The model of how science identified the problem, and the world admitted that the problem existed and joined all its forces in preventing and acting very quickly. I think with such seriousness it is necessary to approach and prevent climate change as a burning problem for mankind, because climate change is fatal throughout the world. Getting knowledge of environmental protection and climate change means that without environmental education, there is no ecological consciousness. This year's pandemic, which has brought great social and economic difficulties to all mankind, is a message to all of us when it comes to human health and the health of the planet that nothing is local anymore. Each of these problems is global, but it's prevented by local action. That's why the protection of the ozone layer is one piece of work and it's important for all of us more than ever. Given that global environmental actions are slowly changing consciousness and the world, but the time is getting smaller, we need to get more involved and activated and therefore the SPS parliamentary group will support the voting day both this and all other draft laws that are on the agenda today. I would just like to refer to Professor Obradovic's discussion, which discussed the loan for reconstruction and construction of November's homes. I, as a Nislijka, am especially pleased that my city will receive a November center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8944	I thank Dr Pavicevic. The next on the list is the respected president of the SPS MPs' club, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8945	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, respected minister with associates, not diminishing the importance and importance of the agreement we are talking about today, I will put the accent on a very important agreement in my presentation, which is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment and conditions of the work of cultural and information centres. Russia and Serbia, namely, associate traditional friendship and cultural and historical closeness. Today, relations between our two countries are good and developed in political, economic, cultural and other fields. Their quality also contributes to a significant history and faith of our two peoples. We can freely say that Russia and Serbia became friends at the time of the Holy Sava, who was taken by a Russian monarch to St. Gora, where he fell into the Russian monastery. For many years, Serbian monks have been guarding the Russian Saint Panteleimon monastery. Since then, our two brotherly nations and our Orthodox churches have been working together. Few mentions that Russian Emperor Ivan IV has also respected the founders of the Serbian state and church, and in recognition of this, he dedicated a large part of the fourth volume of the "World History" year. Count Sava Vladislavic was an adviser to Emperor Petar Veliki, a diplomat at the Russian court in the early 18th century, thanks to which the border between Russia and China was established. So our peoples have been with each other for a long time. So until today, when we and the Russian Federation cultivate friendly relations and co-operation that we have strengthened by signing the 2013 Strategic Partnership Declaration. In 2019, Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin visited Serbia for the marking of 800 years of SPC autocephaly and the official opening of St. Sava's Temple at Vrakar, whose painting along with the team of our and Russian artists was also attended by Russian academician Nikolaj Muhin. More than 20 agreements, memos, contracts and protocols on future co-operation were then signed. Among other things, a joint statement was signed between the government of Russia and the government of the Republic of Serbia on the establishment and conditions of action and cultural and information centres. This act is precisely the predecessor of this Agreement, i.e. the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment and conditions of the activities of cultural and information centres establishing a legal framework for strengthening inter-state co-operation in the area, in particular, culture, education, as well as in the field of information technologies. In line with the principle of reciprocity, the Russian side established the Russian Centre of Science and Culture in Belgrade, and the Serbian side established the Cultural Centre of Serbia in Moscow. The Russian centre in the Serbian capital will be a true follower of the USSR Cultural Centre, or Russia, and the Serbian centre will be opened for the first time in the Russian Federation. We are proud that the Russian home in Belgrade is the oldest, among other things, Russian cultural centre abroad, that we were the first country in which such an institution was opened, with a unique history and rich work experience, and it has been the center of the spiritual life of the Russian community in Serbia for more than 80 years. Serbian citizens also show great interest in culture, history, Russian language and are actively involved in the cultural and educational work of the Russian home. The basic tasks of cultural centres, in accordance with this agreement, will be the realisation of programmes and bilateral, humanitarian, cultural, scientific and technical co-operation, support of the diaspora, assistance in language learning, development of interregional co-operation. I would also like to praise the extremely good parliamentary co-operation between Serbia and Russia, which is the result of the very traditional good relations between our two countries, but also of mutual interest for economic and cultural development as part of the two countries' strategic partnership. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has signed co-operation agreements with both homes of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. The establishment of the Interparliamentary Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the State Dum of the Russian Federation is considered a particularly important incentive in the overall and special interparliamentary co-operation. Another valuable aspect of our co-operation is the co-operation of parliamentary groups of friendships. A parliamentary group of friendships with Russia at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a convincing group of friendships. I believe that this potential should be used in a way that develops co-operation in areas such as science and culture. MP groups of friendships in both parliaments should actively participate in marking important dates and maintaining different cultural, scientific and educational events. The Russian Federation is one of Serbia's leading economic partners. Very good political relations have provided a stable basis for improving overall co-operation, thus helping the Russian Federation to be among the most important business partners of the Republic of Serbia and as an export destination for Serbian goods, but also as a foreign investor. In the period from January, let's say, by November 2020, the total trade exchange between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation was $2.240 billion or 1.993 billion, while in 2019 total foreign trade was $3.561 billion. Another aspect of our co-operation is the joint cultivation of the memory culture of victims and the contributions of our peoples to freedom and European and world peace in World War II. At the last meeting of the Commission for the Co-operation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the State Dume of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation for the 70th anniversary of the Second World War and the victory over fascism, the initiative was adopted by the President of the State Dume of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation of Vjaceslav Volodin, an initiative to create an institute for the preservation of historical memory. We believe this proposal is of great importance to Serbia and the Serbian people, because we are all witnesses of attempts to review history and attempts to minimise victims. It is the task of all of us to preserve our common heritage, because it is important for science to be involved with the goal of preserving the truth about creating the foundation of a free Europe. We are witnessing the passing of years, the participants of World War II are leaving, the memory is erased, the post-war traditions disappear, the tombs of Fascism are being defiled, monuments are being destroyed, neo-Nazi movements appear, honouring the Nazis, and evoke what millions of people have fought against, Fascism. That is why, preserving anti-fascist traditions, opposing the distortion of the history of war and its results is one of our most significant tasks. The preservation of anti-fascist tradition and the fight against the heroics of fascism should be conducted at all levels of global, state, social, but also personal, of course. The holding of historical lectures, round tables, seminars, events, with the participation of veterans, writing books and articles about World War II, all this should perpetuate the memory of those who gave their lives for the present and the future. Serbia itself is exposed to the threats of historical auditism, the end of history and the conversion of executions to executions, so Serbs who freed the former Yugoslavia, suffering huge casualties by suffering, suddenly becoming aggressors and fascists, while those who created Nazi states in these areas suddenly became some kind of liberators. Serbia, which has always been on the right side, will not allow the end of history, nor forget who committed beastly crimes and who freed Europe. The Serbian and Russian nations together brought down a monstrous ideology that threatened the survival of civilization. We are still today, fostering values and traditions, together in efforts to preserve the historical memory that will help us to strengthen, above all, the peace and prosperity of the common European space. Advocating for historical truth is actually an effort for peace. We are very grateful for the principled support of Russia, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. The Russian Federation has a principled position when it comes to unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija and thus respects the universal principles of international law. We are grateful that Russia has not said at any time that it is against Serbia's European path, but that it supports Serbia on the European path, and when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, it supports every compromise and just solution that comes through dialogue, through the talks, respecting UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Also, we are grateful to the Russian Federation for making it impossible on a bilateral basis for the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo to become part of international organisations. In this way, the Russian Federation knows for who knows which way the builder is, but also the creator and builder and guardian, best way to defend a fairer international legal order precisely based on international law, based precisely on the objectives defined in the UN Charter. In this regard, the SPS parliamentary group will be pleased to support the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment and conditions of the activities of cultural and information centres, as this co-operation, in particular, affects and encourages and strengthens our national, cultural and anti-fascist identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8946	Thank you. Mr. Djordje Kosanić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8947	Thank you. The Honorable Minister with the Ministry's associates, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today before us a debate on the already mentioned draft laws. I will begin by saying that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all proposals of the law, as I said, from this united debate. My colleague Vojislav Vujic, as authorized in front of the JS parliamentary group, spoke about all the draft laws of this united debate, and I will speak today and focus my presentation on two draft laws. These are laws from the domain of co-operation in the area of defence. The first is the bill between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco, and the second is between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. So, we're talking about legislation on co-operation in the area of defence. Well, Minister, I can't leave today to say that the Army of Serbia today is much, much stronger than it was in the time behind us. Everyone can see that, too, who are our friends and who are not our friends. Serbia's overall military strategy as a military country has always been self-defense. And Serbia as a country that implements a policy of neutrality, a policy of co-operation with partners from both the east and the west, tends to have a strong army, to develop our military potential and our military industry. Returning to the laws of this united debate, therefore, we are talking about proposals for defence laws and the first draft law is between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco, it should be said that this agreement intensifys co-operation between Serbia and Morocco in the areas of the military industry, military education and military medicine. The agreement will be conducted through official visits, training and education programmes, participation in exercises, conferences, seminars, as well as in other ways, as agreed by the two sides. But what is very important to us when we talk about the Kingdom of Morocco is their principled position regarding our southern provinces of Kosovo and Metohija. So the Kingdom of Morocco did not recognise the artificial formation of the quasi state of Kosovo. That's what we thank that country for. Otherwise, when it comes to co-operation between Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco, this co-operation can certainly be on a much higher level, to raise this co-operation to a strategic level at some point. When we talk about co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, about co-operation in the area of defence, I must say that there is a great space for co-operation between Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany, not only in the domain of defence, but also in all other segments to raise to an even higher, much higher level. Germany, not a secret, is one of Serbia's largest trading partners on both sides of exports and foreign imports, but also one of the countries that has the most investors in Serbia. Now that we're talking about investors, I have to point out, Minister, I hope you agree with me on Serbia's 60% waste, i.e. 60% of all investments coming to the Western Balkans are coming. So when I say 60 and something percent comes to Serbia, it says how much investors trust in Serbia. It says, on the other hand, that Serbia is one stable country in every sense and that is why we have one result like this. And on the other hand, when we talk about Germany, I have to say that Germany is one of the biggest donors in Serbia. Otherwise, I can't mention any parameters here. The total trade between Serbia and Germany, for example, is close to six billion euros. About 400 German companies operate in Serbia. They employ about 60,000 workers in Serbia. Finally, it should be said that he lives in Germany and works somewhere around 700,000 people of Serbian origin. At the very end, no longer longer, to say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support, in addition to the two draft laws that I have now spoken of, therefore, draft laws between Serbia and Morocco and a proposal for an agreement between Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany in the area of defence, as well as other draft laws in this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8948	I thank Mr Kosanic. Next on the list, the honourable MP of the people, Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8949	Dear People's MPs, before I take off my mask, I would really invite citizens to respect the health measures, to wear masks and in the first place to vaccinate, because we know that the crown is currently on the air, so I have that request. Of course, the esteemed chairman, Mrs Vujovic, respected Mrs Tanaskovic, the esteemed Mr General Bandic, I will say something about the agreement with Russia and the establishment of these cultural and information centres. I really think I have some three parts connected to this. We can have significant and we already have cultural co-operation, only it can be much better precisely because of what this Agreement provides. This Agreement is currently talking about social and cultural and traditional values, talking about improving public information, which is also needed for us to develop political, informative, emphasising political, economic, cultural, scientific and educational processes, both in Serbia and Russia. It is great that, finally, I hope this year or next, it will be realized that Serbia will get a cultural centre in Moscow, and it is especially good because this law provides that both countries can set up departments, other cultural centres in other cities according to their agreement. The core tasks of the centre, and this is important to say because of what I'm about to say, means the centre's tasks are to realize the programme of social, cultural, scientific and technical co-operation, to get to know the public of the state of reception, for example Serbia, with history, culture, internal and external policy, as it stands in the Russian Agreement and vice versa, and scientific and technical, informative co-operation. So when we talk about this cultural, informative co-operation and in general getting acquainted with Russia's policy, since it's foreseen here by the Agreement, so we could establish this co-operation, let's say, one lecture at the Russian cultural centre and getting acquainted with one of the basic Russian laws. So, in the State Duma, I'll remind you, that was eight years ago, so maybe we forgot, the Russian Federation of 11 June 2013 passed an extraordinary law. So federal law No 44 554-6 on amendments and additions to Article 5. The federal law on child protection against information harmful to their health and development, and I'll read it in Russian, and see how noble it sounds. He reads in Russian. ) So I'm mentioning this because of the right to survive, and that's where our two countries could exchange useful information. So both Russia and Serbia face the same problem -- demographic extinction. Children and minors should be protected from the impact of information that is harmful to their health and development, and we might consider adopting, after consulting, what experience the Russians have in applying their law after eight years and at all related to demographics as experienced in these 20 years, since Vladimir Putin is in power, and this law because family, parenting and offspring, so children, mother and father, are traditional, unrequited and noble values that provide healthy society, demographic vitality of the people and that shows respect for the ancestors' heritage and provide a healthy and undisturbed shift of generations in Serbia. The next topic in which we could co-operate with Russia and in line with the allegations set out in this law and agreement, and knowing the opportunities in Serbia and Russia would be very good for Russia to get to know Serbia about its legal mechanisms to regulate the work of those NGOs and political parties that act actively and aggressively against the state and against the president of the state. So, in particular, Russia. In Russia, the anti-state activity of certain parties and NGOs in Serbia is almost unimaginable. And it is unimaginable in Russia, for example, to dehumanise the president of the state and his family as it exists in Serbia and here clearly, to remind you, there is a multi-year-old aggressive campaign aimed at dehumanising and decivilising President Vukic and his family. Some political groups, media and NGOs have been given an election campaign, which has practically already started, although the elections have not been called, a strict order to do what I mentioned by the end of the election campaign as a priority. This demonization warrant that they received, and we saw it in recent weeks, also included President Vukic's wife, Tamara, including their four-year-old son Vukan and Vukic's daughter, Milic and older son Daniel and parents, Angelina and Angelka, and Brother Andrej, and even the ex-wife of Xenia. I'll give you an example. So, ten days ago, they started attacking completely without any basis for President Vukic's wife. So, first, Gilas's portal "directly" on August 25th published an unsigned shameful text entitled "Is To Serbia for Sale" and accused President Vukic's wife of selling and betraying Serbia in the text. It's totally stupid. This joined a few days later, specifically on the 28th, the newspaper "Today" which continued where Gilas's website "directly" continued, while also targeting President Vukic's wife, these media, meanwhile, targeted four-year-old Vukan, son of Tamara and Aleksandr Vukic. On August 28th, the newspaper “Today” united not only this abomination that I have now said, but they praised that sick tweet, the anonymous patient who cursed and threatened the children of President Vukic, about the 26th. A day later, on 27th, former NUNS president, N1 TV associate and TV "Nova S", Slavisa Lekic announced a shameful tweet calling for a bullet for President Vukic. All this was united by the newspaper "Today" on its weekend edition and the first six pages, be careful, it is dedicated, these are all political sides, except for the defilement of President Vukic and his family. You will not believe, they have devoted themselves to defileing President Vukic even sporting, 18th page, where it is completely irrelevant for a person named Vladimir Vuletic, who has nothing to do with sports, received an interview and the whole interview was dedicated on the sports side of the defamation of President Vukic. In their main text and on the front page, they published pictures of the president's wife who is not at all involved in politics, in any way, and published the following shameful things. He says, on the cover, "Alexander Vukic has a huge problem because he cannot boast about his family members, so he has to rely on his wife," and it is repeated in the internal text. This insult "Today" is based on many years of lies that are being built by the newspaper "Today". It is the mantra, I quote, about the evil of Vukic and his evil family, and then that lie is taken for granted and declared a fact on which new untruths are being built, and that was the radio list “Today” in its weekend edition that I mentioned. Secondly, this insult is also a misogenic nature. The list "Today" which is antimizogene presupposes and takes, says, alluds that relying on a woman is possibly a bad thing, and it is not, of course. Next says the "Today" list... Of course, the truth is this, let me just say, President Vukic is always secretly proud of all the members of his family. He's got something to be proud of. Such family members would like to be praised by every normal man, but not by the people of "Today", and the only problem President Vukic has is that he is now "Today" and similar media have been dehumanizing the family for years. "Today" continues with monstrous insults and says the following, speaking of the family and family members of President Vukic, he says, "His younger brother is an unofficial owner of the Republic of Serbia." You won't believe it, it's really in "Today." Then he says: “The older son is an evil Marko Milosevic from Aliexpress, and the ex-wife is a marginal regime journalist. “ I mean, it’s just amazing. This sentence that I've just quoted best depicts a profile of Gilasov media's untrueness and the task I mentioned had been won in the campaign, which is to shoot off all members of the Vucic family. Now you see, every member of the Vucic family they assign to dehumanization some kind of role as bearer of some kind of "evil". So the congratulated brother of President Vukic, Andrej, became, watch out, the unofficial owner of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, the selfless son of President Danilo became the evil Marko Milosevic, not to be trusted, and so the wonderful and professional Ksenija Vukic became, beware, imagine, a marginal regime journalist. Of course, when we talk about what they did to the president's wife, so the honorable and humane Tamara Vukic became someone who, I quote, "sales and betrays Serbia". I mean, what is the guilt of President Vukic and his family? Well, there's no guilt. They're only responsible for what they exist. President Vucic is disturbing these media and individual NGOs because all of them and the political parties of the Jilasovic province, because they have been unable to continue robbing Serbia for 10 years, cannot spread their looting and media businesses. I mean, just to compare, that's how the Jews were guilty to the Nazis just because they existed. Now, one more topic. It would be useful if we signed a deal like this with Russia with Montenegro, which, unfortunately, still doesn't want to. The violence on Cetinj, it is also how in connection with this, organised by Milo Djukanovic, has caused anxiety and anxiety here in Serbia. This shows the execution of policies that Serbia and Russia see as enemies. What caused that madness and hysteria we saw? Hate for Serbia, hatred for Serbs, hatred for the Serbian Orthodox Church, and perhaps all together. I mean, let's remind ourselves, the patriarchs have always visited Montenegro without a problem and attended the entourages of Montenegrin Metropolitans right on Cetinje. And for the first time in SPC history, it became a problem. For what? Because the failed dictator, Milo Djukanovic, felt threatened, and Mil's violence in Cetinje showed that his entire year-long story and mantra about the civil state and multiethnic and multi-confessional harmony, all this is a pure lie and rests on full discrimination and the segregation of the Serb people and the Serbian church in Montenegro. I will remind only briefly of some scientific facts, because it is necessary and it is necessary that we and Russia try together to explain this third country, Montenegro. So, scientific facts about Montenegro say the people of Montenegro speak Serbian. By the way, Montenegrin language is a Serbian subjectile. And all of Serbia's language speeches in the area of Montenegro belong to the Stokva River and to the Ikvak excuse of the Serbian language, while Orthodox Montenegrins are ethnic Serbs, and the Orthodox Church in Montenegro has always been Serbian, and Montenegro's statehood existed only from 1878 to 1918, for forty years and it was the statehood of the Serbs in Montenegro. Historical and ethnic sciences define Montenegrins as ethnic Serbs. And this is confirmed by all the censuses, until, unfortunately, the communist 1948 when a new nation was created. I mentioned here and the election, and I'll just take a quick look at it, because today we have exclusive news. Yesterday, by the way, in the text in "Informer" I predicted exactly what Dragan Gilas would do. And today, on the basis of the proposal of the electoral MEPs, we, of course, have also announced today that the proposals of the MEPs, which are otherwise balanced, are unacceptable to him. You know what he's gonna do? He will most likely boycott the presidential and republican elections, for the local elections he has not decided yet, and will participate fully hypocritically and schizophrenicly in the Belgrade elections most likely. How is he going to explain this schizophrenia to his voters, frankly, I don't care and we need to care. What we care about, Gilas, on the spring of his main committee, announced that if his elections were not at his will and are not at his will, he announced that he would organise a new violence similar to that of July 2020. As we can see, he's now coming to collect Gilas's extreme policy, devoid of any reality and any connection to reality. Gilas's extremism has reached such a level that he considers Europarliamentaries to be enemies to him. Today, it is obvious that when these proposals of the European Parliamentarians saw the light of day and were published in the media that today, Gilas was very painfully shaking on the field of reality. However, as we can see from his statements, he continues to live in his hallucinations. It's obviously his end of his career. What does his moaning mean from yesterday and today? He complains in advance that he's already lost the election, and they haven't even been called yet. Now let me get back to this deal. So the violence on Cetinje has shown one more thing about Milo and Gilas. It showed they were the same. So they were both trying to tear down the state. There is an amazing resemblance between the two of them – they tell the same lies, they justify violence, they cause bloodshed, Milo two days the fourth and fifth, and Gilas in early July. Both work against Serbia and Montenegro, and the only difference is that Gilasa supports about 4% of citizens and Milo Djukanovic so far is 30%. Both of them are highly anti-Serbian, while Gilas hides it and Milo doesn't have to. There is a frantic resemblance between the events on Cetinje September 4th and 5th and the Gilasian demonstrations of July 7th and the next six or seven days. Same matrix, same justification, same attempt at coup, same bloodbath mechanism. We know that sometimes DS and DPS were sister parties. Today DS, practically, no longer exists, but we see that today the SAA and the DPS are sister parties. There is another similarity between these two – both are very rich, i.e. They robbed the state and they own hundreds of millions of euros and I end up with this -- they both have brothers who are their accomplices, and Petar Petrovic Negos said in "The Goreski Wedding" nicely: "I'm not afraid of the devil's corner, let the henna go up the list, but I'm afraid of the evil of the domestic one." Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8950	Thank you. Next on the list, a distinguished folk MP, Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8951	Thank you, Chairman. A few important bilateral agreements are in front of us today. These agreements are the result of the consent of the Republic of Serbia and several other states to establish or improve co-operation in different areas. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on co-operation in the area of defence aims to create a legal framework necessary for the co-operation of the two states in the area of defence. By signing this agreement, the two countries show readiness and determination to continue intensive bilateral co-operation between the two ministries and the two armies. Cooperation can take place through several areas such as training and military exercises, defence industry, information security and cyber defence, exchange of experiences and expertise, military health and others. I believe that improving co-operation in the area of defence is important and necessary, as an important element of global security and stabilisation. In addition to the Kingdom of Morocco, the government of the Republic of Serbia signed an agreement on co-operation in the area of defence and with the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. The agreement obliges the two countries to develop good defence relations in the spirit of partnership and mutual co-operation, in order to improve mutual respect, trust and understanding, respecting the Partnership for Peace. Thus, improving co-operation between the two defence ministries and the two states' armed forces in areas of mutual interest will improve overall good relations between Serbia and Germany. I will remind you that Germany is Serbia's largest trading partner and as far as exports are concerned. I believe that the defence agreement will further strengthen the existing good co-operation between Germany and Serbia. I believe that openness to establish co-operation in all areas is of mutual interest and that it is necessary to further improve to achieve more visible results. Today we are also adopting an amendment to the Montreal Protocol. I will take the opportunity to look back at the way this important document in the field of environmental protection shows us the way to put ourselves as a global community towards the threat that climate change poses, not only to our country but to the entire planet. The Montreal Protocol was adopted in response to recently discovered damage to the ozone layer, known as ozone holes, after it was found that compounds such as freon and halon mainly used in the manufacture of refrigerators, air conditioning, aerosol, or spray bottle, significantly damage the ozone layer that protects our planet from ultraviolet radiation, which is one of the negative effects on human health, has a significantly greater risk. First of all, the importance of this protocol is that it is probably the most successful international agreement in the field of environmental protection. It has been shown that, above all, it is significant that countries that are the largest and which play the greatest role in creating the problem itself must take the lead in solving it and lead other countries, as well as enable support for less developed countries, in order to successfully carry out the transition. One of the first countries to advocate an agreement on chemical damage to the ozone layer was then the United States. This allowed a large number of countries to be actively involved in finding a solution since the start. More importantly, the first agreement was based on the need for a high level of co-operation and one of the first agreements that was made was that the signatories of the agreement could only trade these substances with other countries that also signed the protocol, which sent a signal to all countries on the level of urgency and the importance of the problem. It has also been shown that it is necessary to clearly identify and specify exactly what is forbidden and that such solutions for environmental protection should not be too extensive and unclear. The specific indication of the substance to which it relates, and the process, and of the products where they are mainly used made it possible to solve the problem quickly and find appropriate alternatives. It has also proved significant to include both business and industry in negotiations and decision-making. During the adoption of this Protocol, industrial producers have been involved since the start of the negotiations and have actively co-operated to find the best solution. What to say is that it is not enough just to bring bans, regardless of the economy, such as this protocol, to producers who have stopped using the products of banned chemicals. They have received benefits, but financial and professional support so that they can develop less harmful products and alternatives. Today we also adopt changes from Kigali which are another important step. The Montreal Protocol has been changed several times to allow, among other things, the control of new chemicals and the creation of a financial mechanism that would allow developing countries to implement the agreement. A multilateral fund for the implementation of the Montreal Protocol, the protocol's financial mechanism has provided developing countries with more than 3.5 billion dollars to phase out the OSD. An important step was taken in October 2016 when the protocol was amended to include control measures to reduce hydrochloric carbon, which is used as a substitute for substances that damage the ozone layer. However, some hydrochloric carbons contribute much more to climate change than carbon dioxide. The countries that ratified the amendment from Kigali committed to reduce HFC production and consumption by more than 80% over the next 30 years. What all the agreements that are on the agenda today are linking is that they are facing the future and that is why the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support these agreements in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8952	I thank the MP Ćosovic. Next on the list, the honourable folk MP of Ugljesa Mrdic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8953	Thank you, Mr. Krkobic. Dear Minister, Mrs Vujovic, dear Mrs Tanaskovic, dear fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today, we have some important agreements ahead of us. I particularly support agreements in the area of defence and with our friendly country, the Kingdom of Morocco, which has proved to be a friendly state, because among those countries that do not recognise the illegal state of Kosovo and which consider Kosovo and Metohija to be the southern Serbian province. Also, we with Germany have never had better relations in history, excellent relations regarding economy and economy, and so it is about defence policy. Also, I look forward to an agreement with a friendly Russian Federation in the area of culture. Russia is helping Serbia and the Serbian people a lot. We have given our hand of friendship to Russia and cooperation with the Russian Federation in all areas is very good. I'd like a few sentences to look back on what we talked about yesterday, which is the Consumer Protection Act. I would point out only one fact that the largest average salary in the Republic of Serbia is from municipalities, on the territory of Vracar municipality, at 107,000 dinars. The highest average salary is on the municipality where there are also the most supporters of Đilas, Marinika Tepic and Vuk Jeremic. When I say the most supporters, I do not say that there are more of them than supporters of the politics of Alexander Vukic at Vračar, but in a summary number compared to their activists and membership, Gilas has fellows among the people who received the most from Serbia, and each Serbian citizen should believe in Alexander Vukic's politics, because you can see that they felt the benefits and those who are against SNS and Alexander Vukic. The average salary at the time of Gilas and the yellow was around 320 euros, 2012. The average salary is now around 560 euros, more specifically over 560 euros, and there are 107,000 dinars on Vrakar. So state leadership takes care of the interests of all Serbian citizens, that everyone has as much as possible, both higher and salaries and pensions. I would draw the most attention in today's presentation on the subject of student housing because this state policy has shown that it takes care of young people. Today, young people do not leave Serbia as they left during the DS and their coalition partners. Today, young people stay in Serbia because they believe in Serbia, because they believe in Alexander Vukic's politics. As far as student housing is concerned, I would like to say that both student homes in Belgrade and across Serbia have never been in a better condition. I'll just look back at the data I got about the Belgrade Student Centre. Students' homes in Belgrade are at an enviable level regarding the quality of accommodation and nutrition and all other benefits for our dear students. The state is constantly investing to ensure the optimal conditions for the learning and life of students in our capital and other cities, and to remind us, we have eight student centres, 39 student homes in Serbia and 29 student restaurants in total. For example, in the student dormitory "Student City" in New Belgrade, all rooms have air conditioning, internet, replacement furniture and bathrooms are arranged in all rooms. Otherwise, the student home "Student City" is the largest student home not only in Belgrade, but also in the former Yugoslavia. What are the prices of accommodation? Never better. The price of monthly accommodation in student homes is between 1,000 and 2,000 dinars for all students, depending on the category of home. These homes that have bathrooms in every room and where the furniture is replaced that price goes up to 2,000 for a month. As far as nutrition is concerned, the cost of eating for students on a daily basis in student restaurants is 171 dinar per day. In fact, the price of breakfast is 40 dinars, lunch, 72 dinars and 59 dinar dinners. Such a relationship of price and quality does not exist in Europe, and this has been made possible by the state of Serbia, by President Aleksandar Vucic, that students who come from the interior come to live in Belgrade, to school and to have quality conditions, favourable conditions, and that any family can afford to have a student. These prices show, I just want to underline, the following information: the average for accommodation and nutrition is between 50 and 60 euros per month, and just to tell you that the average cost of renting an apartment on the peripheral parts of Belgrade is about 150 euros, plus costs. And where are the food costs for our dear students? Therefore, both this policy and the Student Centre and the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by our Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and our President, Aleksandr Vukic, shows that students are taken care of, taken care of by young people, is taken care of by our young school, remain in the state and find jobs. I would like to point out, since our dear environment minister, Mrs. Irena Vujovic, is here, and your ministry, i.e. you yourself have participated in actions to make life healthier in Belgrade's student homes and if I am not mistaken, you have planted 500 seedlings around student homes in the territory of the Serbian capital during this and last year. So, every sector is being taken care of. And against all this I have listed are Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic and Vuk Jeremic. They are against all of this and they want a referendum atmosphere in Serbia, which they also show through these texts through the Gilas portals. They want to create an atmosphere for and against Alexander Vukic, i.e. for and against Serbia. Those who are against Alexander Vukic are against Serbia. They are against strong Serbia, but they are for strong Djilas and Vuk Jeremic and Marinik Tepic, to come to power, to return to power, and to make their pockets even harder and even richer, and even stronger their bank accounts in the country and abroad. But fortunately, most people in Serbia are for Serbia, and when it comes to Serbia, it is for Alexander Vukic and his politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8954	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8955	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have important drafts of the law and I will use my time in the tide to talk about agreements signed by the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I want to point out that this isn't the first time that we've talked about agreements and just signing agreements and ratifying them means that Serbia has friends everywhere in the world. Considering co-operation in the area of defence as an important element of global stability and stabilisation, I can say that I am glad that the two agreements are in the field of defence. One of the agreements we are discussing today is an agreement with Morocco in the area of defence signed on behalf of the Republic of Serbia by Minister Selakovic. Yesterday I had a telephone conversation with Serbia's ambassador to Morocco, Dr. Ivan Bauer, and we agreed that the relationship with Morocco is of great importance to the Republic of Serbia because of their decisive stance on the so-called declaration. the countries of Kosovo. The agreement itself as a roof document opens up a larger space to improve co-operation in the area of defence, and this is an area where we can indeed, indeed, offer much, from military-educated and military-medical through military-military to military-economic and military-technical co-operation. Another defence agreement is the agreement we signed with Germany. As previous speakers have said, our current relationship with Germany can be characterized, or co-operation can be characterised as good, and this agreement allows for even better improvement of co-operation, to the mutual interest. For Germany itself, as well as other major and important states, co-operation with Serbia is of paramount importance, given that Serbia is an important factor of stability and peace in this part of Europe. As a member of the Committee on Culture and Information, I am very pleased that one of the agreements that we are discussing here today is the agreement that we signed with the Russian Federation. It is an agreement on the establishment and conditions of the work of cultural and information centres. This agreement establishes two centres. One centre is the Cultural Centre of Serbia in Moscow, while Russia in Serbia is establishing a Russian Centre for Science and Culture in Belgrade. What is extremely important is the maintenance and preservation of Serbia's culture and tradition in Russia and Russia in Serbia. I am particularly pleased that one of the basic tasks of these centres, which is written in this agreement, is to support fellow Americans abroad. So to protect their interests. Given the proposed agreements and only improving the security environment, it is clear that citizens and their security are being put first and foremost here. It is of paramount importance to us as representatives of the government, and it is very important for us to show that citizens are the most important. In the previous period, we worked hard to create a secure business environment and allow Serbia to progress and be the first. We need to get rid of Serbia winning only in sports. That is, of course, good and that is, of course, important, but it is more important for the built Republic of Serbia to see Serbia winning both growth and development. I believe that the previous period has shown unequivocally that Serbia is looking to the future. I don't like to talk about the previous period, because previous periods and arteries from the previous period talk about themselves. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia remember the previous period well and the politicians who were in power at the time. And today these same recycled politicians from the past are trying in the most diverse and creative ways to come to power. In all, absolutely all ways, except for the only one, right, and that's by choice. And why is that? Because they know what the people think of them. Let's talk in that simple folk language, get along and call things a real name. On the one hand, we have an opposition gathered around Dragan Gilas and I don't speak at all. So whatever someone tells you, anyone from the opposition, any party concerned, any movement, or whatever they call it, is part of that former regime. We all remember and talked about what the former regime had done and what it could offer the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For all the time they've been in power, what have they managed to do? They were able to work and they showed that they were working only for themselves and for their interests, and now they came up with something different. Let me tell you what they say best about themselves. Let them say what they want, that's their thing, but once again I have to point out, I have to ask again, how much more will we suffer and listen to threats against the president and his family? If we mention the names Danilo, Milica, Vukan, I am convinced that everyone in the hall, and I believe a large part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know who they think they are. Do we know what the children of any opposition politician are called? I don't know. I also believe that most citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not know the same, but not because we are not informed, but because it is absolutely not important. What does it matter who's kid? So, to leave the threat to the kids, to leave those things alone, that's really not right. We have to understand, and I've said it a few times, that the threat is only once if it's true, it's no longer a threat. Let's not let that happen. So we said that on the one hand we have recycled politicians from the past, on the other hand we have President Alexander Vukic, and the hard and dedicated work of President Vukic and his responsible citizen policy are feeling better today. When we talk about the improvement, we don't talk about it in general, but I mean specifically the increase in wages and pensions, infrastructure, new roads, hospitals. When we look at how many factories he opened in the previous period, Alexander Vukic, how many new jobs are there, it is clear which way Serbia is going today. As many factories as Alexander Vukic has opened, everyone from the opposition to gather, I don't think they could even turn. What bothers us to do even stronger and even more is that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see that Serbia has gone ahead irrevocably and that no one and nothing can bring it back. It is up to us to do everything we can to keep Serbia growing and being a significant factor in the Balkans as well as on the map of Europe, and on the map of the world. It is up to us to continue to work with security and agreement and to fight for Serbia to progress even further in the coming period. Such an environment, therefore, the environment in which we are making progress attracts new investors and therefore, if we have new investors, we have new jobs, improvements in citizens' standards etc. I will remind again what are the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These are: accelerated reforms... Of course, we have six priorities, two out of six are accelerated reforms and the economic empowerment of the Republic of Serbia. The agreements and proposals of the law we are talking about today are in line with the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and their joint improvement of the environment is that it helps Serbia to move to a better place, that Serbia is making progress. That is the essence of the economic policy of the Republic of Serbia. That's what President Alexander Vukic stands for. That's what we all stand for here, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to feel progress and feel better. Therefore, we need to support President Vukic even more strongly, we need to work harder, even harder and fight even harder for Serbia, because we do not have another Serbia. That is why I will support the proposed agreements in the voting day. I call on my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to also support the agreements and to continue to fight harder and more diligently together, because there is no surrender. Betrayal is not an option. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8956	Thank you. The next on the list is the honourable MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8957	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, let me say that, as well as my colleagues, I will support these agreements. In particular, I would like to say a few sentences about the bill to confirm the agreement between the governments of the countries of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation when it comes to the formation of cultural and information centres. Right now, let me say it didn't come overnight. This has its own tradition, its own history that goes back centuries. Let me say that the friendship of Serbs and Russians has been built for centuries, not only in cultural, historical, spiritual, anti-fascist, but also in political ties. The Russians living in Serbia, architects and scientists of various professions literally rebirthed Serbia at the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries and left an extraordinary trail of great contributions both to science, to university, ballet, opera, architecture, heraldics, and comics. King Alexander Karadjordjevic was considered a friend of the Russians. Just with his support, honourable MPs, and Serbian Patriarch Varna opened in 1933 a Russian home in Belgrade. I stress especially, there are over 60 Russian homes in the world today, but I stress but only the Belgrade Russian home is intended to associate Russians and Serbs. That really tells us something. Some of the most beautiful buildings and houses in Belgrade were designed by Russian architects. By 1925 17 Russian schools worked in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. What is very important is to stress for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbs and Russians, as two peoples, have never been in war conflicts. It's very important because of our friendships. On the contrary, many Serbs, following a sign of Orthodox religion, fled the union and catholicism and settled in the 18th century two areas of Tsar Russia, Novajusserbia and Slavnoserbia. Furthermore, what is very important is that Russia was the only foreign-political ally of Serbia from 1804 to 1813, during the first Serbian uprising. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our Serbian, Montenegrin Petar II Petrovic Nejegos, sent by the amanet of St. Peter Cetinjski – praying to God and holding on to Russia, was held in St. Petersburg on 6 March 1835 by the bishop of Montenegro and the hills. Dear People's MPs, just a day after the Austrian ultimatum to Serbia in 1914, Serbian King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic asked Russian Emperor Nikolai Dug Romanov for advice, and he sent him a famous response that reads: "Russia will in no way leave Serbia". Russia's role in World War II is immeasurable. More than 26 million Russians gave their lives to rid themselves of fascism and built their lives into the foundations of freedom of the entire free-loving world. For Belgrade's freedom alone, Russia has given over a thousand lives. Serbs and Russians are the people of the same root, the same Orthodox faith, almost the same letter and language. It further connects and strengthens us. Dear People's MPs, the great Dositej Obradovic was the source of attempts to move spiritual life in a Central European pro-Western direction. As you know, Dosei was a Westerner, spoke several Western languages, admired English culture, and claimed that English women were the best women in the world. That's where he's wrong. It's better for the Serbians. But as soon as he moved to Serbia, after he was invited by Karadjordje, who, as you know, was prone to Austria, he said, quote: "Karadjordje, turn to Russia." It's a finished quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if the world's painting was removed from the world, the world would be darkened if the Russian music was removed from the world, the world would go deaf, and you all know very well in this hall, as well as citizens, if the Russian literature was removed from the world, the world would fail. And now what is very important for us and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we Serbs have made a huge contribution to the formation of the modern Russian state. Not just the Russians to us, but us to them. The Serbs hit the foundations of the modern Russian state. I'll just give you three examples. First, Count Sava Vladislavic Raguzinski, Herzegovic of origin, was the secretary of Russian Emperor Peter the Great and Ambassador of Russia to China. And, look at the wonders, he hit the borders between Russia and China, which didn't seem to me, from then on, only a little changed during President Putin. Another example, General Mihajlo Miloradovic founded the Russian intelligence service and was the most responsible in the defence of Moscow in 1812 from Napoleon. And, behold, of the 30 generals in the defence of Moscow in Borodinska Battle, 10 were Serbs, I stress. General Miloradovic has just saved Moscow from Napoleon in 1812. For a short time, I don't want to elaborate on it. Third, Count Marko Vojnovic, otherwise Užicanin, was the founder and first general of the Russian Black Sea fleet. Here, respected citizens, as the Serbs laid the foundations of the Russian modern state, not only did the Russians make a huge contribution to our country. What is very important at the end of this agreement to say, is that the co-operation of Serbs and Russians has improved and led to the peak of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and Vladimir Vladimirovic Putin, in all areas of social life. I'll just name a few. Thanks to the enormous efforts of Presidents Vukic and Vladimir Putin, 166 pages of Miroslav's Gospel have been returned. Further, thanks to President Vukic, the Russians made a huge contribution to the construction of the Holy Sava temple on Vračar, the largest and most beautiful Orthodox monument in the world. Rukavisnikov is the author of the monument to Stefan Nemanja. Furthermore, thanks to President Vukic, who has extraordinary relations with Russia, Serbs have not imposed sanctions on Russia, as you know. Furthermore, the Russians prevented the Security Council from resolving the Srebrenica genocide. The Russians have prevented the fake state of Kosovo from joining UNESCO. Dear citizens, I have a mass of what you'd like to list, but for a short period of time, this is enough, too, to see that this agreement has its own tradition. Let me now say that we are witnessing permanent brutal, unprecedented, media attacks, media controlled by Dragan Gilas on President Vukic, his family and his parents. These media attacks, lies and inventions and bribes are the force of tycoon-mafian and political groups and individuals, all of whom together have only one goal, which is to satanicize Alexander Vukic, his family and his parents, in order to empower the authorities and they come back to power in Serbia, to bring Serbia where they have already brought her to one, and this is not to bankruptcy, and not to the elections, they say, but to the street, as they did on October 5th. Gilas media is going further, now attacking everything that is good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, attacking the construction of highways, roads, bridges, schools, hospitals, anything that is for the good state of Serbia and Serbian citizens, and not only that, attacking the state and its brightest symbols, the state anthem, the SPC, even the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia. So Gilas's media fiercely attacked the anthem God of justice, only because, behold, miracles, which was intonated at the beginning of the school year, to be listened to by our students. It can only happen to us, in no country, really, no, and it can happen by Gilas and his media. They were joined by certain Gilas and Jeremic haters of everything that is Serbian in the image of attorney God Prelevic, otherwise, in the people known and among the lawyers "God of Lies", Dr Vesna Pesic, known in a people called "Vesna Sniper", because she advocated that Serbia's pipe in the head, and that unfortunate Teofil Pancic. This Pancic wrote that the God of justice was an anthem, that she didn't belong at school. These ideas are on the trail of Ustasha and Fascism. Dr Vesna Pesic says it is inappropriate, and a journalist on Gilas TV said, quote -- it is not normal for children to go to school with lyrics serving Serbian brothers dearly, finished quote. I call on the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia to be in Article 173. The criminal code is said to be - I quote - who publicly exposes to Serbia, its flag, coat of arms and anthem will be fined with fines or prison - finished quote. Gilasov and Jeremic's lawyer Bozo Prelevic really attacked the intonation of the anthem at the beginning of the school year, and, behold, miracles, the lawyer says, it does not say in the Constitution. Not only is he lying, well, it doesn't say in the Constitution that the multiplication table is being taught. He belongs to that set she threw out in our third grade primary school in the field of listening to the music Marsh on Drin. It belongs to that generation, the respected citizens who kicked us out of the eighth grade of Serbian language, Ivan Goran Kovacic "Jama", the tenth singing, we will return it to curricula and programmes. A respected lawyer, and the former commissioner knows that in Greece, an EU member is intonated at the beginning of a Greek anthem. He probably knows, but here from other initiatives he's talking about. Gilas' paytos attacked the entanglement of Joanniki for the Metropolitan of Montenegro-Primorski, imagine wonders, so Nenad Canak in the people known as "Neso Gicoje", went to Cetinje on September 5th 2021 as a member of the terrorist group of Djukanovic's committees to oppose the entrenched metropolis and oppose this sacred act. The chanak of the people called “Some Gicos, ” the holy act was called shameful, and the enthronement of Joanics was totally a disgrace. Respected television citizens with a national frequency every morning lets Serbia's "Nessa Gicoje", and here it is today, while we sit in this high house. Canak is a proven enemy of the Serbian state, and here are the arguments. He said on March 5th 2017 as a failed presidential candidate, I quote -- I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence. It's a finished quote. Even then, the public prosecutor's office had to act in accordance with the penal law of the Republic of Serbia. Canak again said two years later on June 24, 2019, I quote -- Kosovo is not Serbia, but a place where some people who have a round state continent live. It's a finished quote. No shame, no shame, and you, televisions with national frequencies, call every day to muddle Serbia. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, German diplomats, Gert Arens, in his book entitled Diplomatium on the edge, testified that Nenada Canak, in a people called "Neso Gicoje", sent to Lord Karington on December 13, 1991 and a conference on Yugoslavia, behold wonders, a memorandum of Vojvodina in which he said, quote -- the future of Vojvodina is to become a confederate unit of Serbia, and if Serbia does not accept it, then Vojvodina will be an independent state. Here's the public prosecutor's office of arguments. Nenad Canak is an advocate of the duchy nation. A canak in the people called "Neso Gicoje", asked Zrenjanin on January 11th 2020 for the state of Serbia for Vojvodina's executive, judicial, legislative power and for it to be a state. Then he said, I quote, "This is a new beginning, remember Aleksandra Vukicu," I am Vojvodjan. Here he is, creating a duke nation, as does his counterpart in Montenegro Milo Djukanovic, otherwise a former Serb. You know that very well. And they're exactly the same. When I say so, here are the arguments, both of which are sworn enemies and haters of Serbia and the Serb people. Both are for Kosovo's independence. Both agreed and said that there was genocide in Srebrenica. Both attack the Serbian Orthodox Church. Both were against the entanglement of Joaniki in Cetinje. Both are for an independent Duke. And what's important at the end, both are misery and misery, moral misery and Canak and Đilas and Marinika Tepic and Jeremic, supporting the false state of Kosovo, I don't have time to read them to you, I've already done that. They promote the duchess nation both. They support Balkan mob boss Milo Djukanovic. They are opposed to the entanglement of Joanniki for the Montenegrin-Primorian Metropolitan. In such a society, the company "Apel 88" appeared again, whether they believed or not, Vesna Pesic, Nikola Samardzic, professor. Vesna Pusic, Croatia's Dinko Gruhonic, the unhappy Lekic, continues not to list them. Dear citizens of Serbia, I think on behalf of you, I really ask the prosecution to initiate proceedings against Nenad Canka and these persons, because the real prosecution of Nenad Canak is long overdue in a flea, or prison. I'm surprised the Serbian prosecutor's office isn't responding. All those I was talking about are foreign listeners, poor people and poor people, which is what most citizens of the Republic of Serbia think, and not just us, so are their foreign masters. And finally, as they satanicise President Vukic, the Republic of Serbia, the SPC, defecate Serbs throughout the region, until Alexander Vukic daily leads a policy of peace, a policy of security, a policy of solidarity, a policy of good neighbouring countries, and for such a policy, it takes two people, this is what I answer to one MP today, Serbia is always ready for this, a policy of economic progress of our country, all due to the future of our country and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8958	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. With your exposure, we'll finish this part of the session. We'll continue after break at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8959	Dear MPs, we continue with the order of MPs according to the application for a word. The first on the list in the second part of the session is Mr. National MP Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8960	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have really important agenda points that talk a lot about what the government of the Republic of Serbia and its definition is, strategically above all, and the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. It is very clear to anyone who has been following Serbia's policy since 2012 until today that Serbia is very clear and very unequivocally moving towards membership in the European Union, but in addition to this strategic goal of being a member of the European family, people in this formal and legal sense, we want to develop equally high-quality and equally good relations with all countries of the world, in particular, I stress, with those countries that are traditionally friendly towards us, such as Russia, China and other countries that have unequivocally supported the Republic of Serbia on countless occasions, which in the UN and other forums where Serbia needed support. I stress, Serbia's support, above all, in the fight to preserve our territorial integrity and sovereignty in defending Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. The agreements we are talking about today, I said, that Serbia wants the best relations with everyone in the world and we see that through the agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany in the area of defence, we also see that with the Kingdom of Morocco. That's what we see when it comes to ecology. So in all aspects of life, the government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to do everything in its power to make Serbian citizens' lives safer and safer. I also want to talk about what is often in these opposition portals, such as, I don't know, "directly", "New" and others, which are not only opposition, but tycoon-mafian-crime portals, led and paid directly from the pocket of Dragan Gilas, those stolen money, kidnapped from Serbian citizens, where they talk about young people leaving the country, have no future in Serbia, have no perspective. We have shown as the Serbian Progressive Party and how we look to young people and how we look to their future by opening over 200 factories led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and thus allowing young people to gain, to get jobs, to earn money, to build their families. But we're also thinking about students, so we're doing it, we're systematically helping. We have seen that there is a lack of space in student homes and we are working to increase these capacities, to improve the conditions, but we are also taking care of that social component, so that it is not too expensive for our people and we are taking care of quality as well. And, as my fellow respected Ugljesa Mrdic said, nowhere in Europe, you certainly don't have those prices in the student dorm room and diet for students like you have in Serbia. When you compare the quality and price, it is indeed a top-of-the-line service to the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic that they managed to lift Serbia from the knees of criminals and tycoons such as Dragan Djilas, Miskovic and the other scum that has been haralding this country from 2000 to 2012, hate policy, chaos policy, Serbia's citizen blackmail policy that if they are not in power, Serbia falls. The longer they were in power, the more Serbia actually collapsed. Serbia is its failure, and Serbia's citizens were hoping, I admit, too, naively in 2000 that something in this country will change for the better. We believed, let's make a change, to change power for the sake of the people, because of this world that promised us that it would give us both money and that Serbia would quickly accept its membership. There was nothing of it. It is the DOS, the Democratic Party and all its satellites gathered around it, and today Dragan Gilas and those followers and such policies, the Thai-mafian, criminal, have taken advantage of this opportunity, this naiveness, that goodness of the Serbian citizens, in a sincere desire to be free, democratic, European country, they have abused to fill their pockets, and to empty the pockets of Serbian citizens, the straws, that all the citizens of Serbia have earned for decades have been sold out into the shamelessness of foreigners, their tycoons, and only after 12 years have they come out happier and richer, and the citizens of Serbia have been brought to the brink of destruction and misery. I remind you, citizens of Serbia, and you, fellow MPs, citizens of this country who lost their jobs at the time of the Democratic Party, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Jeremic and the rest of them cut their fingers off in strikes, because they didn't receive salaries for years, because when they come in the morning, they go to work, get dressed, and say, "I'm going to earn a snack on the child, he gets to the factory, and the lock factory, the chain. No more of his job and he comes home, looks at his wife and kids and says, "We're packing bags, let's get out of here." That's how it happened at the time of the Democratic Party that 50,000 young people fled this country, so we became one of the leaders in the world to move people from 2000 to 2012. Serbian citizens recognized 2008 when the SNS and 2012 were founded, when they won the elections, recognized the chance, the opportunity, the last chance to change in this country, to finally lose power in Serbia, and to get their country into their own hands, to take away the state by tycoons and criminals, because no country is run by the mafia, only in Serbia was the mafia who sat in the ministerial chairs in the presidential chair, only in Serbia. Only in Serbia did tycoons give orders to ministers what to do, such laws should be passed and the country should move in what direction. That was the only thing that was possible here. They had co-operation and media, they held a full media scene. The media mogul at the time, Dragan Gilas, is all minutes on all national televisions. You didn't have any opposition media. Where was the opposition media with the national frequency? Where could the opposition's voice have been heard on television, where, I'd like someone to tell me? We remember the "Focus" radio, there could also be heard, with a number of distractions, along with numerous bribery attacks by various bandits and others in such radio stations that were trying to bring that freedom back to the citizens of Serbia. And then today, I'm not even going to quote, my colleague Bakarac has talked very nicely about all of it, how much they in their media, by living on Serbian citizens, to satisfy a criminal, a thief like Dragan Gilas, trying to satanize not only the President of the Republic, you have the right to public figures and politicians to attack as much as you want, but they're trying not to bring down Alexander Vukic with politics, but to bring him down by hitting on his children, by attacking his son, by attacking his daughter, and finally, little Vukan. They say-- they're a full-year old. Is the Vulcan a minor? And he was three or four years old, and he was said to be pasture, for Daniel to be killed. They called for a rape of the militia. I'd rather not speak when you enter their portals and watch them speak to the first lady of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Tamara Vukic, what comments their bots make, the ordered comments write about her. Well, they say, well, that's what somebody says. Well, of course, that someone is inspired by that text that you publish, specifically this one. It's not even a portal directly, they're just actually quoting the thoughts of Dragan Gilas. They're a transceiver of his thoughts. They shouldn't be called portals at all. It's not a portal. The portal should inform you objectively, truthfully, so like it or not. In this case, you only have a tycoon's mind transmitters and the fulfillment of his musical desires. The more you continue to spit on Alexander Vukic and his children, the more of them you will get, the more comments you will get, the more praises you will get. Various organizations will say you're a high-minded, big intellectual, great expert on who knows what. The citizens of Serbia know that, so it is seen by the views of these portals, it is seen by the circulation of these newspapers that have begun to print, what is the circulation of 1,000, 2,000 copies, it is a completely insignificant circulation, but it is not a meaningless thought that arises and ideas that are stimulated through such portals and through such media. There's a family being criminalized. It is criminalized that anyone who dares to tell the truth about the fact that Dragan Gilas stole 619 million from this country and from this people, above all. Anyone who can say and mention more than 50 accounts found abroad is immediately declared a credential, stinking, ugly, stupid, uneducated, with a paid degree, and I don't know what it all is. Come in, take a look at the statements that talk about these accounts, the evidence where they are presented, not just statements, because the statements are some political texts, addressing citizens, but the evidence of facts, images of these accounts, the numbers of these accounts, there are no arguments, there are only curses and insults. Even today, when they comment on the events and our performances from this session, they won't say anything commendable about how the military is progressing, how we improve the state of environmentalism. They won't say anything about the state of dormitories that it's better than it was, or that social component that our dormitories and diets in them are the cheapest in Europe, and the quality is excellent in accordance with the price, they won't talk about it, that we've increased capacities, they won't talk about it either. They will say: 50,000 young people from Serbia go. Well, here, in these nine years, it would have turned out that half a million young people have left this country. As they say, this country has been empty for 15 or 20 years. I don't know if we even exist in this country or if we're gone? We probably don't exist. Are we some kind of fog, too? The bottom line is that Dragan Gilas and what he offers Serbian citizens is one big colourful lie, and that dangerous, poisonous apple that someone should bite and make this country disappear, while there are hundreds of millions more in his pockets. And then one day, if the government in the country changed again, it would be too late to do anything for Serbia. God forbid if Gilas with his criminals, his murderers and his butchers sat back on Serbia's forehead, there would be nothing left of this country. As he said - six months, otherwise he stops dealing with politics. Well, six months from now, Serbia would be gone. He says they've had enough for six months. Surely, as an expert in stealing, I believe six days is enough to lay the groundwork and rob everything in a few months. He's got plans, he's got, he's got personnel, but for the robbery, for the kidnapping, and some, according to the professor, his key personnel for that coup, which he would have wanted, are in jail. So the hysteria is even bigger on those portals, because what to do, the main commandos aren't able to get out on the street. The main friends of their murderers are unable to do what they want, which is the liquidation of President Alexander Vukic. As long as Alexander Vukic is alive, as long as he leads and personifies these policies, there is no going back to the power of tycoons and criminals. There's no robbing this country. No portal in this country will be able to disrupt anyone and inspire any evil, nor will any murderer and tycoon ever bring in Serbia to power again, because we watched what it looked like. So we saw today, I need one about these unfortunate texts of theirs to comment on, i.e. A statement by Serbia's largest tycoon, criminal and villain, Dragan Gilas, who says the minority won't go to the polls. Did anyone in Serbia ever expect him to go to the polls? I didn't expect that. I didn't expect him to go to the polls because there's nothing he can do in those elections. In these elections only bigger complexes can get even more frustration than they are now. I'm afraid then it would be a dilemma whether it's for prison or for asylum. And he's aware of that election he won't. And he's aware of that, he's threatening, he's threatening the Serbian citizens openly -- if you're not for me, if I'm going to be out on the street, I'm going to go wild on the street, and I'm going to burn parliament again, and we're going to throw stones at the police, and we're going to start burning cars again, and we're going to break windows, and we're going to steal shoes, and we're going to turn on the TV, and we're going to get into REM. Wait, they're not good with European parliamentarians now? Is he going to Brussels? I'm afraid for the people in Brussels if he's going to come there, then stones there to throw at someone. Is that in its peak and attack of that madness and hysteria, too? They say we are not sincere to the EU, and they are, so they are against the views of European parliamentarians. They won't accept their attitudes either. Of course not. Respected Serbian citizens, respected colleagues, are not interested in the EU or the European Parliament or the electoral conditions, and are much better than when they were in power. They don't even care about that 3% census. I ask – why is that wrong with you? What's wrong with the 3% censorship? Well, it's an opportunity for more lunatics to enter parliament, but there aren't enough people who are willing to vote for such madness, so there's 3% of you, so it's that dream of a white ship, and it's never going to ride on that white ship, its ship has sailed long ago. A long time ago, a white horse and a white ship went away and he will no longer ride any citizens of Serbia or anyone in this country, nor will his sticky fingers ever again be able to get hold of the state registers, the city registers, anything. He likes it best in Belgrade. It is comfortable there, there is no need for it to go in villages, it is disgusted by both Serbia and Serbian villages and Serbian spas. You know, it's not all the way down to the end, so it's not all fancy, just so nice, there's not always some fancy cafes, so what's he going to go out of Belgrade, what's he going to do with the elections in Serbia at the republican level? He's watching Belgrade. There's the most money, where the most money the biggest scum is looking to fold, that the sooner the city's register is robbed, the less than a billion and 200 million barely taken care of. Only the current Finance Minister Sinisa Mali managed to bring Belgrade into order and the city's register, so they would again and they would find the projects they would sell us again, but there are not enough people who want to vote for it. There's not enough naive world. Serbian citizens are neither naive nor stupid, they are politically mature enough, politically written enough and, you know, they know enough to count what they have in their wallet. During Dragan Gilas, a minimum of 15,000 dinars, today 300 euros. During Dragan Gilas's salary, it wasn't even 300 euros. It was mostly 200, 250 euros. Today, 560 will be over 600 next year. They know Serbian citizens count, know Serbian citizens everything, Serbian citizens see everything. I look forward to the next election where we will show them where they belong, that some of them will end up in prisons, some of them will retire, some of them far from politics, but they will certainly stay away from the register and away from the money of Serbian citizens. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8961	Thank you. The next is MP Ivan Fishman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8962	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank you for your great support and sacrifice in the performance of your activities and to congratulate you on the fantastic results you have achieved in the previous period and for doing your best to ensure that our citizens live in a healthier, safer environment. I'd like to continue with my speech. Dear citizens, in the overall process of reforming our country, the law of norms, institutions, we are facing today a set of agreements that will contribute to better, more content and quality co-operation with the countries concerned, which will certainly result in what the SNS and these authorities are up to today, which is strengthening our country's international position and reputation in the world, strengthening friendship and co-operation with all those who value our sincere and friendly intentions with a fundamental goal, which is to improve the lives of our citizens. My colleagues have fully explained most of these agreements, so I won't spend much time, but I would like to say something that has been keeping our public's attention for the past weeks and months. Namely, although with countries which rightly consider themselves to be great forces, with which, by the way, we have better relations, especially in the field of finance and economy, because we are a reliable and in any case credible partner who keeps the given word and promises and does not change them in accordance with the daily-political interests, as our predecessors had manners, we as a responsible authority are aware that large, powerful countries are very often able to create a clear distinction between economic, political, geostrategic and other interests. This plastic means that if one great force has certain economic interests for co-operation with another country, it does not absolutely have to have any causal and consequential relationship with the same country, on another issue politically, will have a diametric attitude. As Winston Churchill said - there are no lifelong friends, but only of interest, and according to this interests are the star of leadership in international relations. In the case of Serbia, by coming to power of the SNS, one patriotic government, in the best and best sense of that word, which thinks and acts exclusively in the interest of its own people, and not in the personal interest, which is most often in agreement with the interests of foreign embassies, our foreign friends have seen that they have got a partner with whom they can achieve certain economic interests and co-operation. We must not interfere with the mind that it will work in all ways to make its geopolitical interests come true, especially in terms of Kosovo and Metohija, in terms of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other. As responsible people, as our people say, we are complaining about our destiny, but we are going to lead one rational policy with the task of preserving security and territorial integrity, as a primary goal, and the development of our economy, the better life of all our citizens, and the secondary, but nothing less important, the goal. In any case, we will not, as some of our neighbours, pride ourselves on going to foreign embassies in terms of how and what we do, but rather look to respect our friends from abroad to maintain our own integrity, our own authority and our dignity in order to partner up with all political and geopolitical, geostratical and all other issues that make themselves insecure at given times. In line with what I have previously stated, the last few months have been given to notice certain increased pressures from various centres of power on our country. I will remind you: Ratko Mladic is sentenced to life imprisonment in The Hague, Jovica Stanisic and Frank Simatovic were sentenced, we remember those directed UN Security Council sessions, I will remind you of a shameful, scientific basis for an unfounded resolution in Srebrenica that was better adopted in the Montenegrin brotherly parliament and the falsely occupied state of Kosovo, there is a frantic Inc's law on the denial of genocide, the imposition of Christian Schmidt for the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the rise of tensions in Montenegro by the former regime of Milo Djukanovic and the small door of the introduction of the nation – the Duke of the upcoming elections. If in addition to all the pressures with one sport that marked a significant part of my life, it's boxing, it's the same thing as having one boxer in one corner, and in the other corner you have 10 of them attacking you all the time, changing one after another, and you're supposed to watch to survive, to keep your head alive, and then maybe you'll score some point and eventually try to win that match with superhuman efforts. It's that situation where our country is headed by the president. With skillful maneuvers, wisdom, resourcefulness, the manner of great statesmen and the use of superhuman potentials, this government is looking at it to respond to all the challenges and find the best solution for all these pressures that I have caused, and to find a way for citizens and society not to feel the essential weight of these pressures, but to feel that the quality of life is changing a little bit, but better from day to day, to see and feel that its receipts are bigger, to travel new ways, to enjoy new cultural content, to enjoy our sports successes, to heal in new hospitals and to believe and to know that whoever sits at the head of this country thinks and works exclusively in his interest. Dear citizens, if we take into account all of my previously stated claims of pressure on our country and how this government is dealing with them, imagine that in such a politically complex situation, representatives of those who are now participating, namely, presupposing to come back to power, of course they tend to come to power only if we put them there without any choice, because they are making an alibi for their failures, because they can't possibly, not even census to cross, and the apriories refuse all the conditions that this authority has set for them, these conditions are significantly better, but at least the same conditions as we had in 2012 in the elections. Imagine, for example. that Mr. Gilas is the prime minister or president of this country and that he goes for example. to a meeting with Angela Merkel, who now skillfully selecting a political moment when she will do so, showering her with wood and stones just because she had good and correct co-operation with the president of our country. Imagine him sitting with President Putin, Si Jinping or other great statesmen? I believe you, too, are convinced that this is unconvincing and discouraging. Imagine a position in the future government, for example. Mr. Nenad Canak and that he decides something for our country. The same one who is working with his coalition partners to introduce this fictional “Vojvodjan” nation, with its coalition partners who, on their political pamphlets and propaganda material, clearly indicate that the Vojvodina state, or republic. The same one who, according to visiting counterpart Atlagic, wrote a memo to Lord Karington in 1991, where he defined and asked Vojvodina to be an independent, neutral and demilitarised state or, in 2017, admitted that Kosovo is an independent state and that each day it boasts with its friendship with those who would prefer Serbia and the Serb people to disappear from the political map of the world, with Albin Kurti or Mr. Convert Milo Djukanovic. I called it a "convertit" because recently in 1990, in an interview with NIN, I quote: "he is proud of Serbian origin and of the famous history of the Serbian people", and today he is one of Serbia and the SPC's consecrated and declared haters, which is not trying to hide, that is, in every sense. Imagine, for example. that the foreign affairs portfolio in a future government for which they are partying and predicating to it, Mr. Jeremic, is given for example. The foreign ministry, which is both ignorant and perhaps well-designed, will leave it to historians to judge, asked the International Court of Justice to rule on the legality of the independence of the "Republic of Kosovo" or to shift the resolution of the Kosovo issue from the UN Security Council's field to the EU, making it significantly difficult to maneuver our country. Or, for example, to get the MUP to Mr Obradovic, who little by little reaches for physical force as an argument in solving certain problems, hitting, insulting, assaulting the weaker sex and medieval methods of fighting to come to such a desired power, which is widely supported by the auto-scivinist intellectual elite, which has the only call for rematch, disobedience, demonstrations, and the use of weapons and blood on Serbian streets for the program. Or that the gentleman predicates to the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Alexic, who before those same authorities has been convicted as a slanderer because he falsely accused his brother of dealing with illegal acts. Here, we see more and more often that Mr. Zarko Korać, a professor who has now appeared to just condemn the independent committee of Dr. Gideon Draif, one of the greatest scholars in the Holocaust study, who, you can imagine, has proved on scientific grounds that there is no genocide in Srebrenica, but a terrible crime that every common common sense must admit. Now, Mr. Korac finds a way to prove that the credibility of the commission was not high, that these people were not professional, that is, everything is trying to prove in any way that the decision that Serbs are not to blame for genocide is not correct. Of course, not to leave out Mr. Bojan Pajtic, who is the idea creator of the declaration of endangerment by Serbia, one of the initiators of starting the issue of the Vojvodina nation, who now in all ways, using the most ground floor vocabulary, sees that he attacks everyone from this government, although Mr. Sasa Radulovic apostropheed him directly with evidence, name and last name, called him directly to participate in the robbery privatisations. Dear citizens, if I didn't count on it, it would probably last until nine tonight, just imagine that any of these people are leading our country into such a complex political situation, to take care of our economy, our security, to take care of our country's international reputation in the world. Believe me, a lock would be placed on this earth within a month. I'll finish the next one. I believe that many of us in the SNS or in this government are not sympathetic to anyone or not receptive to any basis, but respected citizens, this is about exact and clearly measurable results. Don't let them insult your intelligence. Compare the situation then and now, the salaries were then 320 euros, today it is 560 euros. Compare the amount of highways built, compare how many we are, here they rise by that one bridge, we built three bridges in Belgrade alone, and in all of Serbia over 500 bridges. Compare the number of cultural institutions, the number of hospitals and everything else that can be exhausted and the answer will be very clear to you. You don't vote for someone who you like in any way, but for someone who has courage, has wisdom, has knowledge to provide a better, easier and more content life for you and your family. Therefore, dear citizens, please, as a last sentence, in the coming period please do not mind the disgusting lies and fictions that will be placed on you, in the next period by those who are predicating to come to power, of course, for the sole purpose of personal benefit, which have absolutely nothing else to offer you but these lies, but believe what you can see and feel for the daily improvement of your life and your family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8963	Thank you, Mr. Fish. The word has been made by MP Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8964	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected Mrs Vujovic with a co-worker, faces today a set of very important and constructive draft laws, and I would personally refer to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on co-operation in the area of defence. First of all, I feel the need and duty to thank the Kingdom of Morocco for its principled view of not recognising Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. In this way, the Kingdom of Morocco has shown that it respects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, that it is a responsible and reliable partner. That is why the desire to improve bilateral relations between Serbia and Morocco is fully justified. So, the Kingdom of Morocco is an honest friend of Serbia because it is against unilaterally declared solutions, because it is against separatism, because it is against endangering the national unity of Serbia. It is understandable that there is a strong friendship between our two peoples and that Serbia as a responsible state is working to strengthen co-operation with Morocco in various forms and different areas. In particular, today is the agenda of exactly the agreement resulting from this responsible policy and good and friendly relationship between our two countries. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco in the area of defence has a clear objective, which is to establish one legal basis for military co-operation between the Contracting Parties and their competent authorities, primarily in the fields of defence and security policy, military and scientific technical co-operation, military education, training and military medicine. To be more precise, this Agreement of Cooperation between Contracting Parties may include the following areas: training and military exercises, defence industry, logistics support, information security and cyber defence, exchange of experiences and expertise, military health, peace-keeping operations, military history, archives, and museumology and, of course, other forms of co-operation agreed between the parties. Therefore, the conclusion of such agreements is not only short of the need but also the obligation of all of us, as the goal justifies the means, and the goal is the security of Serbia and its citizens. The Republic of Serbia closely monitors changes in the environment and adapts its defence and security policy to these changes, to best protect its national and defence interests, which are, above all, the preservation of sovereignty and territorial integrity, military neutrality and care for the entire Serb race. That's why I will personally, and hopefully my colleagues, support this, as well as other proposals, in the hope that they will support the fight for strong, modern and above all safe Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8965	Thank you. The next is MP Goran Pekarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8966	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister with Associates, I won't be long and I just wanted to support these agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Germany and Morocco. We've had agreements like this before, and we've supported them all. I want to say that some have thought that by deciding on military neutrality, Serbia will shoot itself in the leg and that it will find itself in self-insulation, that it has defined itself, or that it will be found in some difficult isolation by others. However, it has proved that Serbia has since grabbed its freedom of decision, to co-operate much more in all fields, especially in the field of security. And it's good for us to develop co-operation with other countries in the field of security, to exchange both data and information and experience, because that's how we raise the country's combat training for defence. But the country is not just defended by data exchange and exchange of experience. Earth defends itself with the army. We need military service, regular military service. We need an army. I'll remind you, Defence Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, said in due time that if we want to have an army, we must have soldiers. Some experienced it with a mockery, where they said it was logical and that it was not to be mentioned. But they didn't understand the point. Having a soldier does not mean having a person who will be dressed in uniform and who will march and salute, having a soldier, a Serb soldier, means having a well-equipped and well-trained soldier who will respond to the demands of the 21st century wartime, a soldier who will be trained and equipped to preserve his life, to increase his security. Speaking of security, I wanted to say that a good initiative is what Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is doing, which is what the military equipment and has announced to equip the military with modern combat systems, complex combat systems, sophisticated weapons in the field of the military, anti-aircraft defenses and in the fight against electronic facts. I would sincerely like to see Serbia's Jack-130 as a school-combat plane, because that means our pilots have begun training to fly on fifth-generation aircraft. I would also like to see the old Su-25 "Gavran", which is a pandan for the American A-10 "Tanberbolt", which has showered us with the poored uranium in Kosovo, I would also like to see helicopters M-28 and K-52, I would like to see Thor M-2, the only system on the move that can target aircraft and, yes, in the movement, protect its units. As for the electronic struggle, it would be good if we had the autobase systems, the Krasuha -2 systems, the four would be even better, for a 20, it's something else, it hasn't surfaced yet. I would like to add something else, something that has nothing to do with these defence agreements, but it also has to do with defence, and with the military, has to do with politics, with the economy, has to do with the future of Serbia, which is a consistent policy that Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic are leading. It's a compromise policy. Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic recently said Serbia wants and wants to join the EU but will not break up good relations with China and Russia. He offered a compromise -- to respect other people's interests and seek and fight to protect Serbia's interests. The compromise policy that the president of Serbia has offered for the past two or three years is a policy of the future, a policy some unfortunately do not understand. Some European countries, still driven by some belief, perhaps realistically, perhaps not, that military, economic and political dominant compromises are now being rejected as a way of thinking. But definitely, the 21st century or at least the years that come now, in some future period, will be marked by a compromise, because that's how it has to be. I'm glad the president of Serbia is pushing that kind of policy. In the end, I would only invite the citizens of Serbia to be vaccinated, because it is our only defense against this monster called Kovid 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8967	Thank you. Next up is counterpart Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8968	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen MPs, is today on the agenda of agreements that are extremely important. Namely, it is part of our foreign policy, which is one of the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Before I start talking, I'm going to talk about agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment and conditions of the work of cultural and information centres, and I really need to refer to the speech of my esteemed colleague, Pekarski, and to say, I ask, here, I'm still talking with a mask, yesterday more than 5,000 people were infected, died 23, that's a lot, one man when he disappears is a lot and 23 is a lot, with a tendency to spread that number, which is not good. I can't understand that Serbia as the country that was at the top of the vaccination at the beginning, we had four types of vaccine, got an emergency, I can't believe we're the last one on the scale in Europe by vaccination. Sweden was the worst, now 64-65% vaccinated. Why don't we? It's too small a pity, almost nothing, you just have a reaction or you don't have a vaccine to get sick. What if we didn't have a hospital ID? He made the president and the government three hoofs of the hospital, we only have 2,000 beds for sick people. Guys, seriously, young people die, it's not good. I had to say this as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and a woman who loves people. It's simple, the waist is the waist. We should listen to the profession. Everyone has their own cross, but I think it's normal to take a vaccine. As far as foreign policy is concerned, we have been one of the most respectable countries in the world in the past 10 years, thanks to the exceptional wisdom and charisma, sacrifice and patriotism of Mr. Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to him, we also received these vaccines among the first in Europe, including in the world, but thanks to him, there was a mass investment in the Republic of Serbia. Direct foreign investment this year just... billions so far, open over 300 factories, employed masses of people. Let's just remember that in 2012 and I'll always talk about it. There goes the election so people know. There was an unemployed 26%, today 9.5%. If it wasn't for Kovid, we were at 7.5%. People invest. Why? Because we're a stable country, because we're a respectable country. Mr. Vucic has long since grown as to wisdom and patriotism, the borders of his country. I think he could rule any country, but that's why, I know the election's coming, I know that people have become nervous, especially those around Gilas, his click, for the rest of us, I know they're dealing with politics in the best possible way in terms of making programs, but these people have become like wasps, so they're not enough that we're toothless, and I don't see any toothless and sandwich here, and these people have to live on something. These are very educated and cultural, wonderful people who fight for the country. What are these others doing? They attack, they call. Why are people sandwichers? Well, they didn't have anything to eat until that year 2012. They stole everything alive, so it's only 619m euros, according to accounts, in various destinations, another 35m euros we found. We'll see how much longer. People have nothing to eat, 400,000 people have been fired. We hired over 300,000 people today. They say, "How?" Well, that's nice. Look. You've shut down 600 factories. Everything you touched you destroyed, dust and ashes. We're building. We're building a hospital cavid, we're building hospitals. We were once last on the health service scale, today in the first 15, in front of five EU countries, in front of Spain, Italy. We're building schools. We've renovated 90% of the schools. We build hospitals, we build roads. We built 350 kilometers of highways. There are eight more highways in the building. So we're going to be the country with the highest percentage of highways in the world. That's how investors are brought in. Who's gonna come into some kind of trouble? We've built our social system properly, we're working on human relations, we're working on neighbors in terms of... Here, “Mini Schengen”, four types of freedom – people, capital, services, goods, integration of economics. That's how it works. We can't live in an environment unless we're good with neighbors. Every 50 years we fought, of course not us Serbs, but we're always forced to fight defensive wars. Now I'm away from the subject, because I got terribly upset when I saw it. For the first time, since I'm going to talk here about the cultural center and culture, and culture is a way of life, it's pisses me off, I've been hit because for the first time, it's insulted the dignity of a man and his children. Touch us, do whatever you want with us, say whatever you want, but don't touch our children. It's our treasure, family is sacred. Why touch other people's children? Leave it once and for all. This is the first time we've talked about it. I really don't know what kind of child our opponents of coalitions call, I mean, they're not even opponents, they're just different from us, they have their own ideology that's completely alien to me, we have goals, they achieve a better future for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but don't touch children. We talk about kids all the time. What's wrong with your three-year-old? It's scandalous, people, it's unculture, it's just disgusting. Leave it alone, make plans, there goes the election. We did everything you wanted. You want a census 3%? All right, you gave it, when we were supposed to come to power, that's when you raised the censorship from 3% to 5%. Here, now we've lowered from 5% to 3%, all you're asking is, come on, leave our kids alone. I had to say it, it just came out of me, because I think it's scary. There's no such thing as "scaring" or "scaring" or "scaring" or "scaring." Be wiser. As far as the Russian Federation is concerned, it's our verified friends, our traditional friends, the Slavic souls, whatever you want in Russia. You want Mendelje's system, you want diamonds, you want history, you want culture, you want tradition, you want, whatever, literature, painting, ballet. A beautiful fascinating country with beautiful people. That's why I decided, because I don't want to talk for half an hour, but just to say a few words about it, it's fortunate that the time has come to open our cultural centre in Moscow, because there is a cultural and scientific centre in Russia in Belgrade. When you know the land, when you know it, when you learn the language, you will love it. It's getting stronger. Why do these centers exist? Because it needs to strengthen bilateral policy, then to get to know the culture and tradition of a nation. It's good that these centers will have as their contents a mass of exhibitions, whether it will be artistic paintings, photographs, whatever. There's also the establishment of clubs, working with fellow Americans. There are many Russians living in the Republic of Serbia. There will be foreign language learning departments, of course Russian and Serbian. So it's just a improvement. Em strengthens bilateral relations, and you get to know the culture and beauty of a country, and you can learn a lot from very decent money. As far as these cultural centers are concerned, what I liked is that there will be a data bank, so by clicking on the button you will be able to learn any information about the culture and traditions of a nation, whether Serbian or Russian, depends on what you are interested in. Also, they will be able to co-operate with local self-government, of course state with the state, but also with local self-government. That's exactly what happened a few years ago. While I was in the municipality of Voždovac there was a promotion of culture in the municipality of Voždovac of different states, so we hosted over 20 countries and it was very impressive. Of course there was the People's Republic of China, 15 days were the promotion of culture and the people of the People's Republic of China, Russia too, but it was also Slovakia, Bulgaria, Greece, Israel. That's how it works. If we want to make friends, as we create, if we want to be as close to people as possible, if we want to have as many bilateral relations as possible, if we want people to understand how good a people we are, I mean the peoples and peoples that live in the Republic of Serbia, all the people of the Republic of Serbia. You should learn something, for the record. Of course, in voting day, I will support all these agreements. Once again, I ask the citizens to be vaccinated, because if we can't... There is no salvation for us, but it will last forever. Thank you for your attention. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8969	Thank you. Next is MP Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8970	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, the honourable minister, today we have two agreements in the field of defence in our daily work. One between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco and one agreement in the area of defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. The discussion on the defence system and the security system is never excessive and certainly these agreements that we are discussing today will contribute to the establishment of even better inter-state co-operation between countries that are signatories to the agreement, between the Republic of Serbia and between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Federal Republic of Germany in the area of defence. Serbia is not really after 2012 going to lead a sovereign, free and independent policy contrary to the treasonous policy led by members of the former regime, which was characterized by the political action of Boris Tadic, Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic. I want to point out that these defence agreements are really important, but it is more important that in the next period we do what we did in previous years, which is that in every place we always protect, protect and defend Serbian state and national interests and respect our military neutrality. For our country today, the most important thing is to strengthen our economy above all, our defence capacities, our military and to strengthen our health system. That's exactly the policy led by SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic. They're registered, i.e. The progress in each of these areas is evident individually, and that is what Serbian citizens see, read well and understand very well, and therefore provide absolute and unimpaired support for the SNS-led policy. Serbian defence facilities are much higher today than they were in 2012. Serbian defence facilities were systematically destroyed between 2000 and 2012. Our army was almost completely humiliated and disarmed, and it is not weird because the defence system was then run by people such as Ponos, Sutanovac, Boris Tadic. These are people who have publicly said that Serbia will never again face any security threats and security challenges in the future. These are people who publicly said that Serbia will never again defend itself in the future by military, but only by diplomatic means. I can only imagine how the Serb army and their elders felt at those times when they listened to all the nebulogies spoken by Ponos, Tadic and Sutanovac. Then I am not surprised that it was never seriously discussed and talked seriously about protecting Serbian state and national interests and respecting our military neutrality during the former regime. Never during the former regime has there been sincere talk of a national security strategy, it has never been talked about co-operation with the ODKB as a form of establishing a balance in relations between Serbia and all other military alliances, but of course with respect for our military neutrality and with the preservation of our political independence and independence. Never at the time of the former regime and the former government spoke of equipping the Serbian Army, obtaining anti-aircraft defence systems, buying new planes. We have all this today thanks to the serious and responsible policy we have conducted in the defence system and the security system. Not to endanger anyone, not to attack anyone, but to make our army a deterrent factor for anyone who at any time thinks it could endanger Serbian state and national interests. Never during the former government has there been a serious talk about the goods system because a humiliating policy of joining Serbia has been conducted in NATO's pact, because it has been avoided in any way to strengthen Serbia's Army and as I have said to establish a policy of co-operation with all military alliances, but of course and above all with respect for our political independence and independence. Speaking of the defence system, it is also important to mention the National Security Strategy. So, a state act that pervades all the good defence and security policies conducted by the Serbian state in the previous period. For the first time, we have a situation in the state records of memory culture, to talk about marking events from our glorious but tragic past. We are talking for the first time in such a document on the development of patriotism, because it is extremely important that we strengthen the defence and security system to have a patriotic educated population, especially future generations, and that they are aware of these responsibilities. As soon as our political action produces negative reactions among people such as Dragan Solak, Dragan Đilas, Bakir Izetbegovic, Milanovic, Milo Djukanovic and similar to them, it means that we are on a good path and that we are doing something really good for the Serbian people and for the Serbian state, but not only for our people and for our country, but also for the whole region, because in some foreseeable future, the entire Balkans region will likely face security threats and security challenges, for example, because of the return from the Syrians, Iraq, Afghanistan. So it's not just the problem of Serbia, it's the whole region, and it can be a problem for all of Europe. We must warn, possibly creating potential terrorist cells, especially in KIM and BiH space. That is why interstate co-operation in the area of defence and security is important. Speaking of the region, I can't honestly understand what happened last week in Montenegro, in Cetinje, Dragan Gilas said in an interview that Serbia, which is an exporter, is a crisis in the region, that Serbia is the one that is a remethyling factor in the environment. So this man takes every opportunity, every possible moment to accuse his country and the Serbian people alive. On the other hand, it does not surprise me because it stands as a feather of a false second Serbian elite and comes forward with such attitudes. These are respected citizens, typical ideological heirs to what he said and did, for example. Jovo Kapičić, and Dragan Gilas today is someone who speaks the same way Jovo Kapičić said that Serbia rode Montenegro in 1918, and he came in 1945 to live on Dedinje. He left his descendants cafes in downtown Belgrade, and imagine, it was Serbia who rode Montenegro in 1918. Oh, you don't think so? That's why I want to tell all other Serbians and autoskillers in Belgrade that since 2012, the Serbian state has finally been led by people who love Serbia, with respect, of course, by the rights of all national minorities living in Serbia. It is over with insulting the dignity of the Serbian people. No one can stop us from actively participating in political life anymore and from sincerely fighting for Serbian national and state interests because more monopoly on the idea of progress in Serbian society thanks to the SNS does not hold another Serbia. He will never be able to fool the Serbian people again. Serbia today is the engine of the development of the entire region and these results and that energy all citizens of Serbia see, and I see that especially younger generations and young people are happy about it. I want to, of course, let my colleagues say something about agreements that are on the agenda today, but before I finish, I want to take the opportunity to condemn the monstrous attacks on President Alexander Vukic's family. So we must not allow people like Brkići, Marinika Tepic and various Gilas semitrons in the public sphere to call for the trial of a child of four years, just because it is called Vucic. We must condemn attacks on children as well as institutions and as a society, because children must not be subject to political struggle. With this practice, once and for all, it must be interrupted and it must be put to an end. But it is clear evidence that they do not have, that team gathered around Gilas, Marinika Tepic, Jeremic, Tadic, that they have no plan, no programme, no policy and that their only goal is to remove President Aleksandar Vukic from the political scene and that, with some violence and some colourful revolution, without the political will of Serbia's citizens, therefore, without elections, come to power, because they cannot forgive, they are frustrated, and they cannot forgive Alexander Vukic for Serbia's progress, irretrievably, and what is now unconstitutional. They cannot forgive him for seeing these results seen by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They cannot forgive Alexander Vukic for Serbia today being the engine of economic development of the entire region, which we have the largest economic growth in Europe and what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see. That's why both him and the SNS give absolute and unhinged trust. We will certainly continue for the coming years to fight for Serbia to lead an independent, sovereign and free policy, to strengthen our health, our economy, our military, and we will not allow anyone to try to reduce the influence of the Serb people in the Balkans and we will fight for no longer to think that they can change our history, steal our identity, to attack the SPC, as it was in 2004, and all of these are from the former regimes, these diggers from DS and Tadic and Djilas and Jeremic were not watching, when they burned centuries at KIM, when they burned Serbian churches and monasteries, and they didn't move their fingers. It should be stressed that only the SNS can guarantee an even better future for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And that only the SNS can guarantee what we have promised the citizens of Serbia, which is that we will provide them with what they deserve, which is exactly an even better standard of living, state-of-the-art health care, and even better conditions for young people to live and work in Serbia. Of course, in the voting day, I will support all the agreements we have on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8971	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Vladica Maricic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8972	Thank you, Your Honor. We have today a set of international agreements that the Republic of Serbia concludes, both with international institutions and with many countries in the world. These international agreements only confirm Serbia's position as a credible partner and international organisations and countries of the East and West, and European countries, and countries from North Africa. It is credited to the only wise policy of President Aleksandr Vukic, a policy Serbia has been leading since 2012, which is different from that of the 1990s and 2000s policies. We know that in the 1990s Serbia was a country that was in isolation, in 2000 that Serbia was opening up to the world by apologizing to everyone, by bringing the interests of individual foreign countries ahead of the interests of the citizens of Serbia, and since 2012 we have been leading a sovereign policy, partnership policy both with both east and west, and all in order to improve the lives of our citizens and the prosperity of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, I would refer to the loan agreement that the Republic of Serbia concludes with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, for the implementation of a project called "Student Housing". The project involves the completion of a student home in Nis and the construction of a completely new student home in Belgrade. The study home in Nis is located on the location of technical colleges on the street of Aleksandra Medvedeva, in a campus where there are three technical universities and the Academy of Professional Studies. The building was started there in 2009 and only three floors were built by 2012. Since 2012, there has been a more serious construction of the building and this building has been led to the completion of all the rough construction works, there are 11 floors, and in the third phase, for which we are adopting the loan today, this building should get the final look, to get the facade, the carpentry, to have the interior of the building fully built, equipped, to get the installations and, of course, to get all the necessary furniture, to be in the function of the November home. When the November home, in Nis, is completed, there will be between 400 and 450 beds, or places for 400 to 450 students, who study at the University, Nis, but also at the Nis Academy of Professional Studies, who are of course financed from the budget. If we know that the November center, in Nis, currently has about 958 beds, then it is not difficult to conclude that ending this dorm, the accommodation capacity, in Nis, will be almost 50% higher. This will significantly increase the availability of higher education to many young people, from southern, Southeast, eastern Serbia. We know that about two and a half million of our citizens live in the area, and in this area, about 20 municipalities also belong to the fourth group of development. With the construction of this November home, some young people who are now finishing high school, perhaps parents who could not afford the economic price of housing in Nis, will opt for studies in Nis, as they will be able to use the services of dormitories at the cost of benefactory. The second part of the project means building a completely new student home, in Belgrade, at the location of the student town and the home will have accommodation facilities for about a thousand students. By building these two homes, the Republic of Serbia will, on occasion, meet those needs that exist in the student population. From the opportunity of so many missing beds, compared to the number of applications submitted for accommodation in Serbia's student centres, it is of course the University of Belgrade, which is the largest university to which the entire Serbia is gravitated, and the University of Nis, which is gravitated by students from southern and eastern Serbia. The second important agreement we are discussing today is an agreement with the Russian Federation on the establishment and arrangement of the work of cultural and information centres. We know that there is a Russian home in Belgrade, which was created in 1933, as in order to express ourselves in modern language the citizens' initiative, that is, the initiative of private persons. The then Russian emigration, numerous in Belgrade and the entire Kingdom of Yugoslavia, of its own resources, in the streets of Queen Natalia, built its own building, the Russian House, as the centre of Russian culture, in the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia. In 1946, the authorities of the Federation People's Republic of Yugoslavia handed the building over to the Soviet Union and it began to act as a centre of Soviet culture in Serbia. His legal status was governed by an agreement between the SFRJ and the Soviet Union, from 1961, and in 1994, the Russian House, as we know it, named the Russian Centre for Culture and Science. With this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation, we arrange the work of the Russian centre, in Belgrade, but we also arrange for the establishment and operation of a future Serbian culture centre in Moscow. Russia, as I said here, has been culturally present through its centre since 1933, which has changed its legal status, but we, the Republic of Serbia, did not have a cultural centre in the Russian Federation and the construction of such a cultural centre, which in some ways we now support, because this is the first step towards the establishment of this Serbian centre, which will be in Moscow, will create conditions that the Russian Federation government will help us find and equip one such facility in Moscow. We know that great countries like the Russian Federation, but also many other major countries in the world, France, Germany, China, the United States, have such centres in most countries in the world. Serbia, which is less territorially and by population than they are, can hold such centres in the countries of the region, which are of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia, so Aleksandar Vukic opened the Serbian house in downtown Podgorica a few years ago, as a sort of centre for gathering of Serbs from Montenegro, and a centre for co-operation of the Republic of Serbia, with Serbs in Montenegro and all those who speak Serbian in Montenegro. But the Republic of Serbia must have such centres in both significant international states and the adoption of this agreement, in the coming year, the Republic of Serbia will hopefully acquire such a centre in Russia, which will be important for the promotion of Serbian culture, but also for the co-operation of the Serbian public with the citizens of Russia, who are also fond of Serbia and the Serbian people and Serbian interests. We know that the Russian Federation is a significant partner of the Republic of Serbia to preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia in our southern Serbian province, and the Russian Federation is a major obstacle to the entry of the so-called self-proclaimed so-called. the countries of Kosovo, to international organisations. We also have two agreements on the agenda, in the area of defence, one with the Kingdom of Morocco, the other with the Federal Republic of Germany. The Kingdom of Morocco, in principle, does not recognise Kosovo's self-declaration of independence, is a country that respects international law in relation to the Republic of Serbia. As far as the agreement with Germany is concerned, it is important for us, because German soldiers within the KFOR contingent are present at KIM, and the conclusion of such international defence agreements, it is important to connect our army with the Federal Republic of Germany, which in no way gives God, some escalations, violence on KIM, significantly faster powers to react, if it receives information from the Republic of Serbia, from our military, our security services and on the agenda, we have an important agreement with Ukraine, because Ukraine also does not recognise the independence of our southern Serbian province. This is an agreement on a visa-free regime, for the citizens of Ukraine and Serbian citizens, the agreement had existed before and the regime was such that in 60 days, it could have stayed without a visa for 30 days, and now we are increasing it to allow the citizens of Ukraine in Serbia and Serbian citizens in Ukraine to stay without interruptions for a maximum of 90 days, in a six-month period, which is about standard in international relations and in visa-free regimes, which Serbia also has with other countries, which will significantly increase business co-operation, economic presence, our companies in Ukraine that represent a significant market, but also the possibility for some Ukrainian investment in Serbia. As I said, all these agreements paint the international reputation that the Republic of Serbia has enjoyed since 2012, here, and which is carefully built by every move, Alexander Vukic. There was also a dispute when he concluded the Brussels Agreement, and when he concluded the Washington Agreement, but the time showed that all these agreements were in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, our national goals and our citizens. Alexander Vukic is an integration engine in the Balkans. His initiative, recently called "Open Balkans", is revolutionary for this area. He was the first to say in decades, "The Balkans – the Balkan Peoples". All of us out there in the eighth grade of the primary school in history have learned that this sentence has cost many statesmen dearly, some and their heads. Aleksandar Vukic had the strength to launch such an initiative, which is primarily peaceful and then economical, and to gather the interests of countries that may have been unimaginable in some earlier period with these countries, here I think of Albania, but also Macedonia, that is, the Republic of Northern Macedonia and I, like most citizens of Serbia, in the Open Balkans initiative, would also like to see countries where there is a significant percentage of the Serbian population, Montenegro and BiH. The "Open Balkans" was disputed, especially in its first stages. Some feared it was an initiative other nations, Albanians or Macedonians would use against Serbs. We now see that the "Open Balkans" has the greatest benefit of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people, and we see that some states, i.e. regimes in Montenegro and BiH, fear inclusion in such an initiative. So they do not believe in their countries' strength because Serbia has already proven itself and proved to be a state that can lead an active policy in the Balkans, peace policy and integration policy. I, as well as my colleagues from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, will support all agreements on the agenda today in the voting day. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8973	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8974	Dear Vice-President Kovac, Honored Minister Vujovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, fellow previous speakers spoke a lot about agreements and all these agenda points that speak clearly. When you take a closer look at the list of all these agreements and a whole series of our country's activities in the domain of foreign policy and the establishment of bilateral relations on military, economic and other agendas, it says enough about how much our foreign policy activity is alive, as much as ours, primarily the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also the President of the Republic, who runs a proactive and offensive foreign and diplomatic policy, how much they work to make Serbia the best of positioning itself and to make Serbia more active in the process of regional co-operation, but also co-operation with EU members, but also big world powers and players at the world level. So it doesn't take a few weeks and we don't have an agreement on the agenda of military, economic character, the character of protecting investment and everything that will lead to the life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia being better, to be more quality. It is a country that leads one responsible foreign policy, which is based on what the president of the then-Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Milan Stojadinovic, has defined in his political doctrine, which is internal stability and peace at the borders. From this, how many agreements we have and who we sign agreements with, it is clear that Serbia is open to partnership, open to co-operation with everyone, with all the countries in the world that intend to and of course respect Serbia in one way and see as a special partner in this part of Europe, so to Southeast Europe, in the territory of the Western Balkans. President Aleksandar Vukic, when he became prime minister in 2014, defined two key aspects and two key pillars of the state's development, which are the economy and the military and that is something that, after seven years of that time, led to Serbia in 2021 being one country that seems quite different not only to citizens here living in Serbia, not only to people living in the region in neighbouring countries, but also to countries around the world. Of the one state that was the world's money, which was the world's loser, which in this part of Europe served as a kind of punching bag, the multi- and on-call culprit for everything that was negatively happening in the region and beyond, we have become one country that becomes a strategic partner, which becomes a reliable partner, a serious partner with the world's main players, and the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China and the United States and the EU countries, and I will particularly be apostroping Germany and France. President Vukic succeeds from countries that are not favored by Serbia, which is certainly Germany, creating friends, creating such an atmosphere and ambience that, for example, German companies employ more than 70,000 people in Serbia, that American companies employ more than 25,000 people. He created preconditions and an ambience for Serbia to restore after so many decades, alliances and friendships, its strategic partnership with France and create very good personal relations, but also state and state relations with President Makron, creating and implementing and realising a foreign policy that is realistically and truly material and which in one way protects the country's vital national interests. We are also talking today about defence agreements and all those who have criticised him, all those who have attacked him during these years that they will not be able to lead a balanced foreign policy, that Serbia will have to define, that they will have to put themselves aside, have suffered their defeat, have experienced it in the field of reality, because, after seven or eight years, Vucic's insistence on military neutrality, Vucic's insistence not to leave traditional partners and friends, to lead one sovereign foreign and internal policy, has contributed to Serbia's increasingly intense and dynamic development, that in Serbia everyone wants to invest, that all want to co-operate with Serbia both on the economic and military fields, and therefore Serbia has a very high degree of co-operation with countries that form a NATO Pact, bilateral co-operation with many developed Western countries, military cooperation with Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, which has the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, which is very much of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, which we speak of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, which we speak of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the United of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the United of Serbia, the United of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the United of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, The idea of leadership of our policy and its policy is the idea of freedom, the idea of freedom and equality for all citizens who live in one country and respect for international law and equal arches for all who represent factors in the international community, and that is after seven, eight years of victory and Vucic's policy, because we have shown that as one flexible state we are able to lead balanced foreign policy in such a way that we can co-operate with all, that we can accept partnerships, but that what is not in the interests of our citizens and our country we can also say "no". We can say no to our friends in the EU and the United States, that we will not impose sanctions on the Russian Federation. We can tell them that we are eager and that we want both their investments and their money here and the opening of new jobs, but that we will not give up Chinese investments and our friends who have been with us for the past few years, helping us, supporting us in building infrastructure and in the overall, complete construction of this country. So, we showed and Wolfie is... In fact, it is his greatest credit for all these years, that Serbia finally has that quality that is most important in foreign-political relations – reliable, that it is a reliable partner, that Vukic is saying what he says in Washington both in Moscow and in Beijing and Brussels and wherever he is found. Serbia is a serious country, which can protect its vital national interests, but Vucic is also the only leader after so many years and so many decades that he has told these citizens and our people that, in addition to the economy and economic development, the development of the military, the development of the defence forces and the equipment of our army and the willingness of our military and our defence forces, is something that actually protects our national interest and defines our position in regional, European and global terms. Now, a lot of people here have talked about how it was before 2012 and simply, when you put it on a scale on one scale, you see and compare, you see, in fact, by 2012, those who ran the country, how much they didn't know, how much they didn't have the capacity and how they didn't have the basic political knowledge and, of course, political wisdom, leadership and skills to protect our national interests. Since these two key pillars of our country, which we are most proud of today, are the ones that work best for us today, for which the whole world today respects us, and this is the economy and the military and our defence forces, that at that time in 2012, they were almost at the hands of the collapse, because the people who led the state didn't know they were doing it, they didn't know that they were setting priorities, or their particular interests and their own personal interests were ahead of state interests, and that's what clearly separates President Alexander Vukic, his political doctrine and his political leadership from those who, unfortunately, led this country for 12 years, it's a huge time period, which has caused so much evil to Serbia, that now it takes years, perhaps decades, to come to Serbia in general in this region, in this part of Europe and belongs. Vukic was able to restore the economy, raise the economy and succeed in what was perhaps the most difficult task - to restore pride to this country, to restore pride to this nation, to restore pride to this army, to restore pride to the police, to make it well equipped, to have its own purpose and to ensure that what is most important, Serbian citizens are safe, to be guaranteed peace, to be a guarantee of stability and to be the only, most important and most important obstacle to any attack and any threat to our country's national interests. Vukic, such as in the process of military co-operation and co-operation in the field of defence, has established a very good foreign policy co-operation that does not rely solely on the EU, where it is the primary objective and strategic goal of our country to be a full member of the EU, but we also work with the Visegrad Group. I am one of those MPs and people who support it very strongly, even stronger co-operation with the Visegrad Group and potential membership of Serbia in the Visegrad Group more than co-operation with the EU, because it is more operational, because we have no political problem with the Czech Republic, neither Slovakia nor with Hungary nor with Poland, because these are countries with which we share the same values and I think Vukic is there, working on a regional plan, with the countries of Orthodox quadrant, the Visegrad Group, has made an additional opportunity for Serbia, which he co-ordinated with this initiative "Open Balkans", i.e. "Mini Schengen", about which my former speaker, my distinguished colleague Vladica Maric, spoke in such detail and detail, which, when realized, and I am sure he wants to have a very good, positive, economic and all the other effects on our country's future and political challenges, as well as our citizens. When we talk about the agenda point aimed at improving student standards, their quality, their stay at student centres, I want to say that I think in the past few years what Serbia has invested in education, in science, in new technologies, that it has not been so invested in the past 100 years. Those conditions that students have today, those conditions that students today have in primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Serbia, can be compared with the most developed European countries. I'm just going to give you some information that's very important to hear, and it's about the exact facts. In the course of the division, the city of Belgrade shares 67,592 tablets for all students attending state schools since the third final with the sixth grade. For all students from third to sixth grade, the city of Belgrade provides digital textbooks. This means that every third-grader, with a sixth-grade conclusion, will have tablets and digital textbooks in our city and we want to pass it on to all of Serbia. So we're doing digitization, we're doing it both in primary and secondary education, since when it comes to higher education we've made a lot of progress and a lot of success. Each tablet has Telekom's free internet card, so that every child will be able to use this tablet in a digital setting, whether his parents have a home internet or not. This is, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, patriotism. This is love for your people. These are some things that are life-like and that represent what Alexander Vukic's policy represents, and that is a traffic light – how much you have done for your citizens, how much you have done for your people, how much your care for children, about people, about old people, everything can be measured. I congratulate Deputy Mayor Goran Vesic on what he is doing operationally to improve the quality of life for the citizens of Belgrade. And this can serve as a very good example for all Serbia and all colleagues in the territory of all Serbia. Serbia will continue with this kind of living foreign policy activity. Of course, our Government and the President of the Republic will have strong support in this domain and, of course, in the process of continuing to lead foreign policy, which as a top priority and goal is to protect the national interest and all that is in the interest of the Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For you, Madam Minister, I want more, of course, our support here for the majority in parliament. Maybe your job in the government is the most complex. You have this, let's say, very ungrateful task of providing your engagement with what's called an optimum between economic development and environmental protection. In doing so, you have a lot of side kicks and what the president of the state has pointed out on several occasions, a struggle with that so-called. Invented ecological jihad. But given how much you've done in that field and how hard it is for you to go alone, to go personally and to Prepolje to solve problems both in Vinch and in many other hotspots that concern environmental protection. I have no doubt that this job will also be well done in the coming period and that we will jointly manage to find this balance between the necessary economic development, the development of energy and the energy system and the energy potential of our country, but also through keeping an account of the protection of the interest, security and health of our citizens and, of course, the environment, which is not in everyone's interest to be better, to be better, to make the air better, cleaner and more quality. In this domain, of course, the SNS, as it found this balance in the process of economic development and responsible social policy, will find it on this plan and on this issue. And, of course, President Aleksandar Vucic will have strong support for us from the SNS and coalition partners in this process of modernising our country, strengthening our country's economy, our military and our country's defence systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8975	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8976	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is a saying that no one has won the war against nature and against God. This second is especially true for Milo Djukanovic, Nenada Canka and their supporters. First of all, if no one won a war against nature, we should all consider it. I'm talking about an amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that damage the ozone layer. In this regard, we need to know that agriculture as it is today, modern agricultural production is more damaging to the ozone layer than to all the means of transport in the world. So, the ozone shell of agriculture only in the livestock sector damages more than any means of transport in the world, not just passenger cars, trains, Shinobuses, buses. All the means of transport in the world, on the globe, do not damage the ozone layer as much as it seems in livestock. I think it's time we even edit agricultural production in a way that it does what is less. In this respect, livestock feed should be prepared by adding a variety of additives that reduce the gas emissions produced by the livestock and which damages the ozone layer in many ways. Agricultural production in Serbia suffered the burden of social peace in the 1990s and military and economic pressures on our country and was valuable in defending our country. The big question is whether tanks, rockets, military forces would have defended ourselves if we hadn't had our own food, if we hadn't had a farm that contributed to these military and economic pressures being diminished, that is, that the state and the people can withstand, that they can eat, use food, be full of energy, not be hungry and thus reduce the damage to military and economic pressures. Unfortunately, these military and economic pressures can be repeated at some point. They can be caused by some diseases and we've seen what food sovereignty means when the pandemic of the crowns came into existence. So, all those who had problems in the region depended on Serbia that fed itself and others, regardless of what others thought of Serbia and what others think of Serbia as doing in some final reckoning, as they see it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are all witnesses of events in Montenegro, we have all witnessed events in Srebrenica, and we can all estimate on the basis of these parameters that some of our good intentions are made by some other peoples, some other countries in different ways of price, in different ways, and products of problems in the region. I think that in the Balkans, the great powers of the Balkan people share, very skillfully, and use each other against each other. I must also say that those who agree to this kind of division, and Serbia does not agree, that mostly the accounts for conflicts that occur in the Balkans are paid by the skin, above all, of the Balkan peoples, are, unfortunately, Serbs. So, in the last big world war, Serbs died between 13% and 15%, and the Englishmen who, Mr. Martinovic best knows, brought us into this war by paying General Simovic that on March 27th, the demonstrations caused an attack on Serbia, so the Englishman died, as far as I know, 0.8%. It is irrefutable evidence that all these great conflicts that the Balkan peoples agree to, as if they can't wait, as a drunk in a pub, that a great fight is being brought together, that such accounts are often paid with our own skin, and that our Balkan peoples who live next to us and together with us should also be warned that their skin often comes into danger because the great ones think with us, that they can also do without us and because paying the skin of our Balkan peoples is no great harm to them. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a saying in Kennedy, it's about these agreements regarding our defense. There is a saying that is attributed mainly to Tito, etc., but something modified was Kennedy's – just ready for war, it's crazy to say, but only ready for war can we preserve peace. In order for us to be, God forbid, such options to happen here, to be prepared for such a possibility, we must be well armed. You should not be convinced that in 2012, we found a well-armed army in 2013. Serbia was not militaryly neutral at that time, Serbia was at that time militaryly neutralised. We found such a land, a house of bare walls, completely economically broken and should have had patience and raise the economy and raise our economy in proportion to raise our army, buy our weapons and become some kind of force in this Balkans. The army should be constantly promoted, and Mr Marinkovic often represents the case of Israel. I think we need about Israel to have a similar policy and we need to arm ourselves well. To well arm my proposal is that behind GDP growth every year, we separate 25% of that growth for equipment and an army that, God forbid, we may need. It's not just what you say, it's what you don't talk about. It's what you don't say. I think a country's policy should be guided, and so it's run, that you have to be proportionate to possible opponents, possible friends, possible enemies, possible allies to plan your moves. Not only do you have to plan your moves, but you also have to anticipate the moves, the possible moves of your opponent, and in such a way create the measures and policies that you will implement and in such a way avoid, or if the damage is to reduce the damage as much as possible. With that in mind, it is my appeal that we continue to buy high-end weapons, to equip the army with top-of-the-line equipment, so that in such a way, drones, modern rockets, systems in which as few people as possible are used, although I am also to serve the military deadline, that this soldier is technologically well equipped and that he can handle appropriate techniques and equipment and that in such a way, don't give God some conflict, we can sacrifice technology and technical means, and that we can prevent people in a possible conflict. I need my peasants who do agricultural production and who love the country the most, at least I think so, to warn that the country still needs to be loved in the way they do, that we still need to appreciate our soldier, that what in agriculture, the processing industry we earn, that the plough due to the sword should defend, that we have to have a modern, well-armed army and that, first of all, the peasant sons, if there are, should be as much as possible to go into the army, whether it happens by contract, whether they become officers, sub-offices, but that we must love our country. The peasants should be told not to look at these, proportionate to this first point I was talking about, they shouldn't be hypocrites like Gilas's crew, they're all quiet, they're already called. They're people who allegedly care about the environment. I recommend that farmers work, as far as possible, to produce organic food, to return in a certain way to agricultural production that harms the environment as little as possible, not to appreciate the environment in the way our political opponents do, who want to make good roads to Belgrade to protest, but they do not want quarryes. So, there's probably cars coming to the protest, and we'd like clean air. One who appreciates clean air so much could come by bicycle, that model Nikola Jovanovic in 2019. They could come on a bike to that protest. As hypocritical as it is, I would have come by electric car that day, but they want electric cars and they want the state to support it, subsidize, but they won't have lithium. So you want an electric car, but you don't want a lithium battery. And there's something else I'd recommend to them, if they're already so much for the environment, when they're so much against lithium, they don't take photos on cell phones that day. If you're against lithium, then they're against batteries that are in your cell phone, don't use it, don't exploit those photos, because otherwise you don't really protect the environment, because the environment is a global issue. Don't let anyone tell me that now, if everyone else pollutes the air, the earth, etc., we will remain so isolated. Back to the army, my favorite question. We need to know that we avoid conflicts, often we need to play a little weak, which at this point our leadership can do, let go, and don't mind too much, say, Montenegro, Srebrenica, or BiH, on the attack, to give in. That's what Sun Cu said, right, Mr. Marinkovic, often needs to act out some kind of weakness to feed his opponent arrogance, because then when you feed him that arrogance, then he's easier to oppose than when you go into some kind of conflict, because he's kind of rude and because he's attacking you. It's easier to warn a conflict, not to enter it, but to get out. I appreciate the current efforts of the state leadership that despite the numerous attacks that occur from some surrounding former Yugoslav republics, which we have in a certain way created statehood and they forgot it, that we do not respond in the same way and I do not consider it weak. We should be aware of everything, that as long as everyone fought against us, we mainly fought against ourselves. We don't need to be crazy brave anymore, now we have to be a little wise and we have to appreciate our country. We have to have big cities, I get that. It is very important how many people Serbia has, but, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, let's see how this population is allocated, that something remains for the village, that there are people there, that our territories are not emptied, because if we empty our territories, some other people will come to them. To remind me that the Turks in Serbia definitely broke when they all retreated to large cities, then they were an easier opponent to master. That is why we should appreciate that statement by Stefan Nemanja, which he gave in time, that the people without a country are not a people and that is why we must appreciate and love our country, right, Mr Orlic, and raise as much economy as possible, because once we raise the economy to the end, we will raise the head of our citizens and our flag even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8977	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a set of international agreements on the agenda. I cannot, and it is ungrateful to try, to determine which are more important and which are less important than these international agreements, all have equal importance. When I look at today's assembly and the agenda of this National Assembly and look at the portals controlled by Dragan Gilas, I don't think we're talking about the same country. If we look at its portals, the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic destabilise Montenegro, destroys BiH's territorial integrity, endangers Croatia's interests, find there some rather insignificant MEP, such as Viola von Kramon, who again claims that Aleksandar Vukic is affecting events in Montenegro, etc., etc. However, I have to ask one question - if even some of this were true, would we today discuss an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on co-operation in the area of defence? I am quite certain that this would not be debated today that any of what Gilas, his portals, are half-private MEPs who are lobbyists for Kosovo independence and lobbyists for Dragan Gilas to be in power in the Republic of Serbia, would be transferred. Germany would certainly not have signed such an agreement with the Republic of Serbia. We can think of Germany whatever we want, but in any case, such an agreement is important for the Republic of Serbia for several reasons, and what the former regime cannot accept is that Serbia is now politically stable, economically strong, safe country and that every partner is welcome country. I don't think the former regime can understand that. Also, I would not like to underestimate an agreement signed by the Republic of Serbia in the area of defence with the Kingdom of Morocco. The former regime of the Kingdom of Morocco did not accept frankly. They did not understand its importance primarily in the African world, neither Boris Tadic nor Dragan Djilas nor Vuk Jeremic nor the rest of the very principled position of the Kingdom of Morocco, which is that not only did the Kingdom of Morocco resist the pressure to admit so-called. An independent state of Kosovo, rather than even defending the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia more than both Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic did. And today, the position of the Kingdom of Morocco has not changed in our southern province, nor has there been any indication that this will happen. But somehow out of fear that someone doesn't mind that the Republic of Serbia is developing friendly relations with the Kingdom of Morocco, we didn't have these agreements during the former regime. It seems to me that these are the very serious problems that we have received in the inheritance and that we need to solve and rebuild those sincere friendships that we should have continued long ago. But what else to say about the people who... In fact, I can understand that someone doesn't like Alexander Vukic, especially not the former regime, they lost a lot of money, they lost a lot of privileges, Serbia didn't fall apart, Serbia didn't become their private property, but I can't understand that the former regime, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, prefers some other countries than the Republic of Serbia. And always somehow in the interest of these other countries, allegedly, they will represent interests, and above all they love their own pocket. And that's where all the politics they've implemented in the past. These agreements are not insignificant, even when it comes to student standards. Remember how much they attacked us that our citizens, those youngest students, left Serbia, and did nothing about the student standard when they were in power. They didn't do anything to make it easier for those people who were moving to colleges to make their position easier and more successful learning. All that mattered was how to get rich. When they were finishing colleges, they weren't trying to find strategic partners who would hire these students in Serbia to stay here and build their future, this is where women get married and give birth, but they found ways to leave Serbia as soon as possible. Of course, with some financial benefit. One such agreement now shows a completely reverse policy, that we want our students to have as best learning conditions as possible, to be as good experts as possible, to motivate them to stay working, when they finish their studies, to live and work in Serbia, which is also the former regime that has not worked now in Dragan Gilas. We also have an agreement on the Cultural and Information Centre between Serbia and the Russian Federation. May I say that it was a forbidden topic during the former regime, that we could not sign any agreement even in the field of culture with the Russian Federation? It was a forbidden topic. You shouldn't have talked about it. Even if some Russian politician showed up, it was kind of shy. I remember the visit of President Medvedev to the Republic of Serbia. They watched to hide it from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because they feared that citizens would show Serbia's real relationship with Russia and the Russian Federation. They hid it in hotels and brought it here literally secretly, all over Belgrade blocked into the National Assembly. That's how they treated their friends. Not to mention that Serbia and the Russian Federation, or the Russian people, cannot say the Russian Federation, have shared historical moments, have greats who shared fate, whether ours in the territory of the Russian Federation or Russia, did theirs here in Serbia when Serbia fought for its liberation and gain its new statehood. But it doesn't matter, it was important that the West didn't see how much Serbian citizens and Serbian people loved Russians. That's why they hid the Bear. Or, an agreement that frees the citizens of Ukraine from visas when they enter the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The former regime persistently tries to drag Alexander Vukic and the Serbian leadership into the Serbian-Ukrainian conflict. In all possible ways, they have made it difficult for Serbia's position to face a major problem, in every way they have made the position of Serbia difficult, for a conflict with which we have no ties and where every word is measured when it comes to it by our leadership and by President Aleksandar Vukic. They were trying to fight us with a nation that is our friend, our historical friend. A large number of red-armies that freed Belgrade and Serbia are right from the territory of today's Ukraine. I am sorry that they have a civil war and I am sorry that the same people who lead both Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic argue with them the closest, the same ones who want us to fight with the citizens of Montenegro and the Serbs from Montenegro and Montenegro, come on and call them that. Here, the Republic of Serbia once again confirms that the reputation it has gained in the world and the international community is not without reason. We abolish visas to the citizens of Ukraine and we show good will and cooperation between our two peoples, all that the former regime did not or did not want, because they were always busy alone, listening blindly to others, listening blindly to ambassadors of other countries for one reason only – to stay in power for as long as possible and to steal more money. They are now again relying on other ambassadors and other countries to bring them to power. That time has passed. Only the elections come to power in Serbia, the government comes to power in the way that citizens support you, and knowing what these are, God will never be in my power again and do not deserve it. They've done so much harm to us, they've ruined our lives, and they've stolen so many years of our lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8979	The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8980	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. A respected minister with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, we had the opportunity to hear more information in the discussion than respected colleagues regarding the proposals for the agreement. What I would like to say is that this session and these agenda points that would be discussed during the tycoon yellow regime did not exist, because in their time they were not interested in how to improve Serbia, how to better position it on the international agenda, how to establish this co-operation in all segments of society, not only in the economy, but in the field of the military, in the fields of culture, sport, information. No, they themselves were interested in how to rob what existed in Serbia from Serbian citizens, how to put it in their pockets. That game they played by 2012 ended happily ever after. Unfortunately, the figure has reached 619m euros, but in any case, the will of the Serbian citizens has been stopped and citizens will never again. At a time when Boris Tadic was head of the defence ministry and later replaced by Sutanovac, a people known as the Shutanovac, were important to them when it comes to defence and the military only to melt tanks, that all the property the military has to sell out, because in their opinion there was no need to ensure the safety of 36/2 MJ/MT and the security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and international co-operation on defence, in terms of the development of the defence industry, scientific and technological research in those segments was not at all. With the arrival of SNS to power and Alexander Vukic at the head of the Ministry of Defence, significant battles took place to lead, to restore the army to our defence and dedicated recovery industry. Today these results and how we can lead, especially in the neighborhood where I live, in Triestenik where we have a PPT dedicated industry that and how it works and works, employs a large number of citizens. I am pleased that every day our defence industry is making progress, we have new scientific and discovery that is being implemented, and thanks to these kinds of co-operation, we will be able to share this knowledge with other countries and continue to work on the development of our institute and defense. I absolutely agree with distinguished and colleague Marjan Risticevic that it is necessary to further invest in military technology, invest in our defence industry, raise standards when it comes to the military, because one of the important segments and roles of the state, and when we talk about these economic doctrines, was Kensian or liberal, always says that one of the main tasks of the state is to defeat internal order and peace and secure the external borders of the state. When we talk about ecology, the agreement that lies ahead is very important and another proof that Serbia is an important part of the international community, that it is fighting together for other countries to prevent the effects of global warming, climate change and make its modest contribution and however small it is, it is still important to pre-warn it. By voting this agreement we will also contribute, but what I want to say is that the struggle to preserve the environment and the environment cannot be done with an empty stomach. During the tycoon regime, they didn't even think about ecology, but unfortunately they didn't even think about citizens' stomachs, but they were thinking about how the businesses that these workers had been building back for decades, that their ancestors were building, that they were destroying, that they were going to sell out, again, that their deep pockets were filled, which were often bumpy, so that they filled their pockets so quickly and empty, not seeing how these people would survive, that their children would be able to help, that children who were studying would school and thus provide the future for this country, if they hadn't already thought about the future of these families and children. Today, the situation is different thanks to the reforms that started in 2014, led by current President Aleksandar Vukic and his team, has contributed to making citizens' bellies full and fuller and therefore we have enough resources to be able to advocate and fight both for the preservation of the environment and for the environment. What's very important when we talk about the student housing program, this program will end, when we talk about a low university investment that's been going back decades, and that's the 400-bed student building that's going to be and that's in the part of the city where there's a technical college. Otherwise, to point out that the Faculty of Electronics is one of the colleges of pride today, which gives significant contributions not only to the education of young people, but also to the development of science and as you know in this complex is also built a scientific and technological park that is still being used today by those same students and young innovators to turn their business ideas into reality, that their knowledge is placed on the domestic and international market, and that is all that yellow power has not thought about and considered. It was important to them that it was a green meadow that served as a horse’s pasture. They didn't care about the needs of students, they didn't care about the needs of our science, but today this picture has changed significantly. Also, building a student home in Belgrade with housing capacity of 1,000 is also important, because we know that Belgrade University is the oldest and that our country's pride and our education system, but I'm sure it won't fit here, because as my distinguished colleagues said, needs are even greater and will work significantly on it. What will certainly be of pride to a growing number of young people after finishing high school, they decide to enroll in colleges, including those who are employed in the meantime, with the goal of upgrading their knowledge and being an even more useful segment of our society. What is important is that young people return to Serbia after schooling abroad, transfer their knowledge here, even return to improve and higher levels of our education. I'm saying all of this for a reason to point out that this was irrelevant to them, which my colleagues have confirmed, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are just enough to remember what the country looked like before, what our infrastructure was. I remember, in Krusevec you had no proper traffic light, you could rarely find a street that didn't have a hole in it, where you could plant mini gardens and plant yourself in urban agriculture. Today the picture is completely different. Today Kruševac is one of the examples of Serbian cities becoming real cities modelled by Europeans, where you have really high quality infrastructure, you have excellent roads, the Moravski Corridor highway is built. You have the village of Novi airport, as we call it, which will be the pride of the city, as well as the "Begrada na Voda" pride of Belgrade and Serbia, because it is a settlement that after decades is actually a new settlement that is built in Kruševec, which is sometimes similar to that in the country, when I was talking about an electronic college only served as a horse's pasture. Today, already slowly zeroed in the first building, investors bought parcels for Vidovdan and marking 650 years since the existence of Kruševec, where we officially discovered the monument to Prince Lazar, as a small, modest vision of gratitude to the founder of the town of Kruševec and one of our large medieval governments, who fought to preserve Serbia and the Serbian state during the period when it was most difficult to do. In Kruševec, the airport of Rosulje, which they had not known for 20 years, was not that they didn't know, they didn't want to, they didn't want to, because again, the only thing they stood for was how to meet their needs, how their pockets to fill, and for the citizens, they didn't care. I am proud when I talk about the sphere of education that Kruševac received and the first state college, the Faculty of Agriculture, which was founded in 2017, which this year was enrolled by the fourth generation of students, who has a firm co-operation with the Institute of Feed Plants, the Institute that they wanted to destroy, who is working successfully today, who is not closed. It is one right decision, because, unfortunately, Kruševac was the only one of the major cities in the West Morava Basin, which had no state colleges, he didn't actually have any college with headquarters, and yet the city is the size of 127 thousand and more inhabitants. I'm really proud of all the results that have been done. I won't talk about economic success, economic success, we've talked about it a lot. In order to try to lower all these results that have been achieved both in the fight against the crown and in the economy, by raising living standards, they use their media, of course, to give orders to dig up at any cost certain statistical data that they would interpret in a way that fits, to say, well, you didn't do what you did, I don't know what successes, it's much better in our time and it's much better to live. So, in one of the newspapers of course owned by Dragan Gilas, you can read the text that says "the fairy tales of the economic tiger", in which they are doing a statistical analysis of the statistics of the Serbian economy from 2000 to 2011, and then they are doing a further analysis from 2011 to 2021, where, yes, they came to the conclusion that they lived much better in their time. Gentlemen of the tycoons, court-confirmed thieves and liars, if it was better to live in your time, so why did the citizens of 2012 replace you? Why did the elections go out and support SNS and Alexander Vukic, and they didn't if you already boast that you had such results? I am not going to go into the basics of statistical analysis because it is unnecessary, because simply all of these people who do this kind of analysis are working on a new doctrine discovered by Dragan Gilas and successfully conducted in his statistical analyses when he is doing a public opinion survey in which he, of course, insists that his opposition has super-averaged support, how he can replace Alexander Vukic, and when the time comes for elections, there is nowhere to go. He retreats into his hole like a little mouse and then plays some Kalimer, he says all the time – this is injustice, this is injustice. So you have had the opportunity to read today that Dragan Gilas and his party will not sign, or support the proposal for an agreement to go to the elections that the MEPs have prepared, and on the other hand, they are always saying that Alexander Vukic no longer has any support in the EU, or in the international community, as he is some dictator, a tyrant against whom everyone should turn in the world. Then they deny themselves. You see, gentlemen, that's what liars do. Time always shows who's telling the truth and who's lying, and when they lie to themselves to deny themselves, then it's clear to you that you have nothing to ask for, or any support to give them. Yesterday, in the discussion, we made it clear that they are aware that they do not have the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that this statistical analysis they are giving, that it is actually another colourful lie from the set of "magla" industries Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak. Of course, when it comes to such things, it is no wonder, because it was clear to everyone in Serbia that in those negotiations that he entered into, they actually came in so as not to agree, that they would find some arguments to say that they would not go to elections and that it was the street that had to decide who would run in the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen of the tycoons, the street will never decide who will manage Serbia. The street will never determine what policy will be conducted in the Republic of Serbia. The decision is made only by citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections organised, and those who wanted to work on further improving electoral conditions which are much better today than in the yellow tycoons, when they voluntarily increased electoral censorship, because they feared competition and feared their seats, councilors, mayors, etc. today say these conditions were worse than they were in their time. I would not agree, nor would the citizens of the Republic of Serbia agree. In any case, all those who want to make a major contribution to the further promotion of the Republic of Serbia, the improvement of the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are always welcome and we always like their ideas to listen to both what is good and what can be implemented will always be implemented, because I say, Alexander Vukic and the policy he leads the interests of citizens and better lives of citizens are first and foremost. That's why you can see him among the population talking, solving problems, and not on Twitter, on social networks, on Facebook, where he's trying to, like Dragan Gilas and others, run some kind of Twitter policy, or to deal with politics. When I talk about international relations, exactly this number of agreements that are ahead of us today and that will be talking in the future about the position of the Republic of Serbia on the international stage of our appreciation and how much they see us as great partners in the field of defence, science, economic co-operation, and also the joint session of the Hungarian and Serbian governments that were held in Hungary are also talking about this and the numerous agreements signed there to further improve bilateral co-operation between the two countries in favour of this. In their day, it wasn't even there. They only cared about fulfilling the directives they received from stakeholders to humiliate the Republic of Serbia, and how strong they spoke in international circles exactly when Kosovo, the false state of Kosovo itself declared that independence and how much state then actually withdrew its recognition. None of them pulled, because they didn't even do it. In fact, they only cared about how they would sell out, not citizens' property, but you can see clearly parts of the state, so after Kosovo and Metohija, Vojvodina would probably come, after Vojvodina and other parts of Serbia. Until it came in some circle of two they would be pleased with, and it is this round of two that only Dragan Gilas is interested in, and which is why he must never run for president of the state or prime minister in the elections, because he is interested in the sole place of mayor of Belgrade and continue his robbery in which the citizens prevented him in 2013 when he was removed from the mayor's post. Yesterday, we had the opportunity to hear only one in a series of misdeeds he had done with the PKK, and my colleagues were talking about the bridge on Ada, and the citizens of Belgrade could see it well in infrastructure works and other problems that had been left by the authorities today, and when the city of Belgrade has and how many problems have been solved, when it has a huge budget, huge investments that are being made, but not investment private pockets, but investment in a better life for the citizens of Belgrade. So in voting day, I will absolutely be proud to support the proposals of these agreements, because this is something that clearly shows our desire and the fight for the future of this country, for the future of our children, and above all, I say I am proud, because the next day as a parent of three children, I will have my children what to say, that as a MP together with my distinguished colleagues here I have struggled that they have a safer and better future so that they can continue with those same steps the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8981	I thank the People's MP, Zoran Tomic. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8982	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed minister with a co-worker, respected citizens of Serbia, one of the agreements that today before us MPs in the House of the National Assembly is also a bill of law, or a bill on the approval of amendments to the Montreal Protocol. The Montreal Protocol itself is part of a much more important topic, which is the topic of environmental protection. A topic that has become very current recently thanks to the efforts of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent Ministry of Environmental Protection, and what is most important for President Aleksandar Vukic to make Serbia healthier and more environmentally acceptable. Almost all European countries place the topic of environmental protection in the first place. I really think that Serbia is going after European countries, that we are going in the right direction and that we are really taking all the necessary actions to make Serbia healthier and more efficient. We have identified the problems Serbia faces in the area of environmental protection and we want to address them in the best way, and all in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When you look at the issue of environmental protection, it is really very complex and I would like to highlight both individual and collective character within that complex topic. This individual character comes from the individual himself, and we all as individuals must be aware that each of our actions can influence that this topic of environmental protection is even better and that Serbia is even cleaner and healthier. Certainly, like all environmental issues and issues, there are certain problems that need to be addressed with the help of the state, which must be addressed by the competent state institutions, or the competent environmental ministry. I really believe that when the government of the Republic of Serbia, or Prime Minister Brnabic, put the topic of environmental protection high in the top priorities of the future government and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, along with you, the minister meets all the expectations that Prime Minister Brnabic pointed out in her exposé. I would like to point out one example, when you drive on the highway from Belgrade to Nis on a light signalling of Serbia's roads, that as much as you give it back to you. I really agree with that, and I really think that we have recognised things as a country since 2012, and that together we are going in a good direction, which is to make Serbia better in the area of environmental protection. I also believe that on the matter of solving essential problems we are moving in the right direction and this shows all the things the Ministry is doing on the ground and this work on the ground is crucial and this work on the ground is recognised by the citizens of Serbia. If you have a problem in the country, regardless of whether it is in the security sector, in the agriculture sector, in the environmental sector, you cannot sit in the cabinet of the Ministry and make certain strategies, but you must go to the field, you must look at the problem together with the citizens and together with your associates to take measures to address these problems. Today's Ministry of Environmental Protection is doing this stuff on the ground. They have solved the problem of the State's dump that has been waiting for its solution for a few dozen years. What is also a major problem is air pollution and the ministry together with several local self-government has raised the issue of solving decades of problems. The real example is the visit of the Minister in Valjevo, which defines the reconstruction process of the existing city's heat, which will be used instead of a mule, an ecologically acceptable gas after the replacement of the big boiler. Also, a decision has been made to protect over 2,000 trees of black pine in the territory of the city of Bora, which will directly affect healthier air. Also, the ministry, and here I also think of the government of the Republic of Serbia that implements politics, is, above all, the protection of the environment in local self-government, and what is most important is the removal of garbage and dumps. But what is a big difference compared to 2012, which we do not remove these dumps as did former Minister Oliver Dulic, then Minister of Ecology at the time of the ruling of DS and Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. At the time, they cleaned up the dumps just to clear the budget of the Republic of Serbia and then, under the name "Let's Clean Serbia", cleaned up nearly a million euros intended for cleaning up the dump. We certainly don't do it today, we do it in procedures that are very transparent and that are aimed at putting Serbia in a high place when we talk about protecting the environment. What is much more important for us sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and for those of us who are trying to work daily on good, or to debate, talk about good legal proposals and to face those facts that we may not agree with in a particular domain, is that we have been facing more and more green movements lately, but whose aspirations are not only about protecting the environment. Representatives of the former regime, knowing that the policy they represent today cannot pass among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and even among those who voted for them by 2012, they have come to realize that in one perfiduous way they enter into the population of the Republic of Serbia and that they have the necessary votes to enter certain institutions. They did it by, again, establishing certain green movements in a very perfiduous way, funding certain green movements to implement their policy on the ground. It's fascinating how at the same time there are protests where the only demands are the same ones that can be heard from the mouth of opposition leaders. And speaking of green movements, that's where President Aleksandar Vukic said that in the future we would face the problem of green jihad. It really is, because it will blackmail you through the green movement for all the things you do back then in your country and that don't match the so-called. The green movement. For a year now, we have been faced with various calls to go out on the street and to pray to defend the environment and to present political views exclusively on these same protests. These political views are aimed at destroying Alexander Vukic and all that is against the SNS and all that we do well in all the institutions, and also at the home of the National Assembly. You know, when certain opposition people say they have nothing to do with the green movement, they have nothing to do with the so-called. Green jihad, I would remind you that in an inter-party dialogue at the National Assembly's home, one of the movements formerly called "Yellow Duck", and today, "We don't drown Belgrade" is on the same track where all parties under the auspices of Dragan Gilas talk with the European Parliamentarians. It's no wonder all these parties don't want to talk to legitimately elected representatives of their people, they don't want to talk to those parties that participate in the track without a Euro representative, because they're used to it and because they probably expect to be brought to a political scene by Europarliatarians, brought by people from Brussels and Strasbourg, not brought by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The real example of this is the visit, today's visit to Mr Zelenovic and Mr Dobrice Veselinovic from the movement We do not strangle Belgrade, in Brussels, and the proof of this is the photo where they took pictures together in front of the European Parliament where gentlemen instead of seeking to protect the environment went to talk about the problems we face in the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask Mr. Dobric Veseinovic, the most famous volunteer in the Balkan territory, who has several apartments, who has even his own special fund or what he calls himself, I think that the fund or institute through which he is Mr. Zelenović and other environmental defenders collect money, so Mr. Zelenovic, the gentleman here on the left, who had already gone to the European Parliament and sued the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic for all the bad in Serbia, and SNS and Aleksandar Vukic gave him a 3% censorship to enter this parliament. But you know what neither Serbia's citizens nor its citizens will be able to do, because they know very well what he was doing in Sapac, and the gentleman on the right, the most famous volunteer in the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Dobrica Veselinovic. You know what else is so fascinating? You have gentlemen from the movement "do not strangle Belgrade" who previously called themselves the "yellow duck" and now those from one election to another change that name. One year they're called the "yellow duck", and then they're called, I don't know what it was, the Association for the Savsky Nap, and then they're called "we're not drowning Belgrade". I see it so it looks more like some companies that want to fool the citizens. They keep changing their estates. You know, it's the same as with certain frauds when you keep changing from year to year company names. You know why they're changing businesses, why they're changing their boss, and why they're changing company names? Because they know which thing they stood for in the previous years, and all those things they stood for turned out by Alexander Vukic and SNS, that they, Alexander Vukic and SNS were right. "Yellow Duck" if we all remember correctly, she said that "Belgrade on water will never be built" and that only one model will be left of Berograd on water. I would also like to invite Mr. Dobric Veselinović and Lazovic and Zelenović, to walk together one day, because I come from the Sava Venac municipality, to go along with the promenade, so we can see all those buildings and feel whether it's from casts or concrete. You today have the move of the Sava amphitheatre "Belgrade on Water" which is the centre of social and business activities, where the highest building in Belgrade will soon be completed, and they have talked about how it is not good. On the move of the Sava amphitheater, you had mice, rats, you found needles, you found broken bottles, people did all kinds of things. Well, that part of Belgrade is now one of Belgrade's most modern parts. The people next to "Biograda on Water" have jumped the price of squares by several hundred euros, and they tell us about the protection of the environment, and then you realize that there are only people in these associations who want to make their own profits, but that they don't work anywhere. Well, where does Mr. Veselinović have one registered formal, or where he has a formal job? He's not anywhere. And then they talk about how they advocate environmental protection. We were up to 10, 15 days ago, we had a problem with the dump, and we didn't hide it. The problem of the dump is 30, 40 years old, but those representatives who advocate environmental protection bring Viola von Kramon here, representative of the European Parliament, bring her here and together with her to this same Vinci, and after that, Vince, Viola von Kramon goes to N1 television by Dragan Šolak and directly advocates Kosovo's independence and when you see in the package Dragan Gilas, Dobrica Veseinović, talks with the European Parliamentarians Viola von Kramon, so what does that tell you? We place that as a sign of equality and we know that it is against Serbia. So we'll do everything, work against Alexander Vukic, work against Serbia, work against the government, work against the resolution ministry. Well, since you didn't remember until 2012 to point your finger at all the problems in Serbia in the area of environmental protection. You didn't, because you didn't care. Today you are interested in being brought by Europarliamentaries, today you are interested in the fact that Viola von Kramon, in Serbia, advocates Kosovo's independence, today you are interested in coming to power without the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We here in the National Assembly will work diligently to adopt all legislative proposals and other sublaws that are in the interests of Serbian citizens, but these people who are in Brussels today, while we work here for the interests of Serbian citizens, they probably sit in a restaurant and negotiate actions they will do, as they call for future protests 11, 12 and 13 already do not know when, but they must know that such a protest was held on September 4th. I'd just like this camera to zoom in, the 4th of September protests were held, so-called. ecologically and look at how many people were in the square, the same ones who invite you to the Green Movement, that green jihad, won't get any better even 11. And that is why I would like to say again, since you worked against your people until 2012, and since you have called for certain decisions and government by order of foreign embassies and carried that same agenda to foreign embassies, I really ask that if you respect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you do not go to Brussels to whine against Alexander Vukic, and SNS, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but let us sit here and as serious political factors talk, but I don't think those conversations will help you either, because you can't go as far as 3% today as it takes to get into the National Assembly. Why? Because citizens do not like cheaters, citizens do not like people who prefer foreigners from their country, and because citizens see what direction Serbia is heading, which is the direction of prosperity and a safer future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8983	Since the time of the legislator group Aleksandar Vucic – for our children, there are 10 minutes left. The Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8984	In the end, I'll say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8985	In the end, good. The word has a folk letter from Nevenka Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8986	Thank you, Chairman. I will talk about the Law on Confirmation of Amendments to the Montreal Protocol, about substances that damage the ozone layer. Mankind, due to accelerated technological development, industrial progress, forcing consumption as the main driver of the world economy, has on the one hand improved human life, made it more beautiful and easier, but parallel to that, the laws of nature have been violated, the disturbed environment and an increased adverse impact on it. Thus, the benefits of progress and development automatically resulted in different disorders, which have multiple effects on the nature and laws that govern it, on land, water and air, on the plant and animal world, on human health and life. For these reasons, various conventions, agreements and arrangements have been adopted in the past, all with the aim of preventing and eliminating the cause, the adverse impact on the environment. For this, the Vienna Convention, on the Protection of the 1985 Ozone Cover, whose signature was former SFRY, which called for co-operation and the management of substances that damage the ozone layer. Since this Convention did not provide for any control mechanisms, the Montreal Protocol, which provides for the obligation to reduce production and consumption of substances, which damage the ozone layer, has been ratified by 197 countries, including our state of Serbia. The text of the Montreal Protocol later adopted four amendments that our country has also ratified. The Montreal Protocol proved to be a very successful document in the field of environmental protection, at a meeting in Uruanda in 2016, a Kigali amendment that introduces control of HFC substances, in the same way as for substances that damage the ozone layer. This amendment introduces fluorinated hydrocarbons into the Montreal Protocol, defining both the reduction of production and consumption of these substances. Fluor-carbons are gases used as substitutes for substances that damage the ozone layer. These gases don't damage the ozone layer, but they have a greenhouse effect and have a major impact on climate change whose effects, such as fires, floods and the like, have been getting more and more frequent lately. The Republic of Serbia as a small but responsible state has confirmed all four amendments to the Montreal Protocol, and by confirming Kigali's amendment continues its activities in order to preserve the ozone envelope. The Montreal Protocol was gradually replaced by substances that damage the ozone layer contributed to the process of recovery of the envelope absorbing ultraviolet rays coming from the sun to the ground. So, the ozone layer is a filter that absorbs harmful ultraviolet rays, which, if they got to the ground, would destroy genetic material and disable photosynthesis, which killed the plant and animal world. This clearly leads to the importance and importance of the ozone envelope and even more important and important activities related to its preservation. Our state as a signator of the Montreal Protocol has successfully implemented all contracts and fulfilled all obligations under the protocol. In the EU accession process, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to bring its legislation into line with EU legislation and on fluorinated gases. Benefits from the Montreal Protocol for Signatory Countries in addition to contributions to the preservation of the ozone envelope are numerous, from access to funding sources for various projects in this area, through technical co-operation and transfer of technologies, development opportunities, as well as support for institutional strengthening and flexibility in the implementation of commitments and implementation of planned activities. This agreement is only one in a series of adopted laws in this assembly. I remind you that we recently passed the Nature Protection Act, before that the Climate Change Act, the Energy Act, the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, and all of them aim to protect and preserve the environment. Also, I would refer to another very important agreement that we have on the agenda today, which concerns the project loan between the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia. This loan is an investment, not a cost, because the funds will be used to build accommodation facilities for students in Belgrade and Nis. As someone who comes from southern Serbia and as a student of the University of Slovenia, as Nis is the administrative centre of southern and Southeastern Serbia, I believe that building accommodation facilities for students of the University of Slovenia is of great importance for students from that part of Serbia. This is even more so because the parents of students from that part of Serbia are worse material position, so the expansion of housing facilities in dorms will give many students a lower material status to solve the problem of accommodation in a quality way at affordable price. Investment in student accommodation is an investment in education, and investment in education is an investment in a better and better future for a country. We all know the wise saying that says – if you want to destroy a country, then destroy its education, and if you want to raise one country, then invest in its education. In the end, in the voting day, as well as my colleagues from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, I will support the proposals we have on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8987	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The motioner reported on the matter. The word is made by Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8988	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, thank you for the constructive debate, because today we had very important agreements on the agenda. As you have seen, above all, two are extremely important from the area of military co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco and the Republic of Serbia with the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. Also, what is of paramount importance for the Republic of Serbia is the ratification of the Loan Treaty when we talk about new investment and the expansion of student homes throughout Serbia, given the need to expand these capacities when looking at the number of seats and facilities compared to the number of registered ones, the ratification of the loan agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Republic of Serbia at 32m euros. Of course, a lot of you have also referred to the Montreal Protocol, which I would particularly pay attention to, given the portfolio I'm leading. First of all, to thank you again for the exhaustive comments, suggestions and for understanding the importance of environmental protection and the Montreal Protocol. When we talk about it, I must reiterate that it is a very successful international document in the field of environmental protection and that it has produced extremely good results on the issues of the restoration of the ozone layer. One of the most important global problems that is certainly present here is the problem and the fight against climate change. In March of this year you adopted the Climate Change Act, which also made one step when we talk about protecting the environment. I can tell you that in the coming days we will also form a national council on climate change, an extremely important body with the government that will deal with this issue. This, of course, was also foreseen by the Climate Change Act and that is what the newspapers are and what will happen in the coming days and the next five years will deal with these issues. All interested parties are involved in the national council. So, one transparent approach, with respect to the profession and their presence on the council. We've also included the NGO sector and experts and together we're going to do some results, I sincerely hope. The main problem with climate consequences certainly is that they are being delayed and we are now experiencing climate change that has resulted from the last 50 years and it is therefore very important what we are going to do today, so that some future generations do not feel the same and the consequences that we are facing. That's why we do more than ever in the field of environmental protection. I have to take the opportunity to point out once again that the ministry is working intensively when we're talking about combating air pollution. We are also concerned about water and land pollution, and we are equally trying to raise people's awareness about the importance of this topic. 40/3 DG/CG When we talk about air pollution, I must also point out that we are developing an air protection programme with an action plan that will define objectives and measures when it comes to air quality. This is for the first time and will certainly provide a basis for further development of the adoption of these sublegislative acts and for the continuation of the application of European legislation in the area of air protection. The conference will take place on Friday, which will propose some of the measures for a national plan, namely the Action Plan for Air Protection in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Also, in September, we are also conducting a major action in 43 local self-government units, and perhaps some other local self-government units join us, and that is certainly cleaning up wild dumps and dumps all over the country. By some estimate, there are about 3.5 thousand such dumps, we will clean up 500 in September. So, of course, we will all work together to clean it up for the future of the new generations that are coming. I'm trying to distract them from this place today, the presidents of the municipalities and the competent authorities of local self-government units, so that those locations we clean up are safe. This is what is the task of all of us and I hope that many citizens whose locations and major interference are going to report irresponsible individuals and we will fight together for a cleaner future. Confirmation of this amendment, to return to the Montreal Protocol, is important, since the control of consumption and use of fluorinated gases with the effect of the glass garden will contribute to the implementation of the Paris Agreement, i.e. the reduction of gas emissions and the global rise in temperature. Given that adopting this amendment would be a step closer to achieving a goal that would certainly affect the protection of the environment and the future of all citizens, I thank you once again for the debate and hope that in the day of the vote you will adopt all these draft laws that were on the agenda today, including, of course, the Montreal Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-08-0.u8989	Thank you. I am concluding a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 2 to 7 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m.
