ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4240	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 114 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please ask MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system it is found that, at this point in the hall, 163 MPs are present, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? National MP Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4241	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I have two questions to address to the Ministry of Agriculture. The first issue concerns the Regulation on financial aid to agricultural holdings in order to mitigate the consequences of Kovid 19's disease, which was brought by the Government in April 2020, which sets out several measures to assist farmers and cattle farmers. 25 dinars per metre per square metre of registered area are provided for when growing vegetables in a protected area and up to 90,000 dinars, under two - 3,000 dinars per cow's throat, and no more than 30,000, three - 500 dinars per sheep's or goats' throat, and no more than 20,000 dinars under four - 800 dinars per bee's hive, and no more than 20,000 dinars. My question is, have the funds been paid off by those categories? The second issue concerns the subsidies that the state grants to farmers and cattle farmers each year. Are these subsidies paid for last 2020 and may there be debt for 2019, since these are very significant funds that farmers and cattle farmers can actually plan for their work in the country, their expenditures, the purchase of food for cattle, etc.? It is unnecessary to talk about the importance of the village, about helping farmers and cattle farmers. So, the quality of the village will depend on us living in the city, literally. So we really need to pay attention to this category and these industries. The people in the country who deal with these branches face many difficulties. They are significantly more pronounced now in the current pandemic, so that the government should come out in addition to all the support measures that we have so far had different spheres of the economy with aid to farmers and cattle farmers themselves. It is not enough just to regulate legislation. It is necessary to monitor whether regulations are implemented on the ground, as farmers, as well as farmers, face numerous difficulties. In particular, during this period, the number of herds has doubled, for example, due to poor consumption. The ransom price is low, the export is also very weak, all of these are the problems affecting peasants and someone may also be forced to insinuate their flock, to sell it. If the peasant sells his herd, it is unlikely that he will decide to get it again. What is concrete, what cattlemen encounter on the ground, is also a matter of subsidies. The question is whether subsidies come to every cattleman, to the one who sees the most trouble in the production process itself, because specifically when it comes to sheep breeders, they have subsidies foreseen from 7,000 to sheep's throat and 2,000 per ram lamb. However, the subsidies on the ram lamb are not directly paid to the accounts of the cattle farmers themselves, but most often the buyers and other smugglers abuse their position and simply buy the lambs from the hosts, and then retrieval them as their own. They're all doing it with help, let's say, veterinary cells. Another daunting circumstance on the ground is administrative problems themselves. For example, parent services, even a few percent of the total earnings or subsidies given to cattlemen over the course of one year. That is why it would be very important, since we now have another Ministry of Agriculture, that in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture, it is simply as much on the ground as possible, that these people be heard because these are some new circumstances and problems occur from day to day, increase, but not just listen, but try in the best possible way to solve certain problems and give them some incentives. What should be significant and very important to us as citizens is the fact that we can speed up domestic production by buying domestic products. It's the least we can do. It is something that will strengthen the domestic economy and in some ways help farmers and cattle farmers themselves to make their work simply worthwhile and to have certain results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4242	The word has a folk letter from Nadia Beqiri. I just want to ask the MPs to prepare their headphones, because the National MP Nadia Beqiri will speak her language. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4243	(Translation of native language) Thank you, President, honourable citizens, esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, today I am addressing the Prime Minister and Government. We want to draw attention to supporting citizens, because we need help with the virus, Kovid 19. Believe this virus is not pleasant to any of us. We're asking for solidarity with the citizens, and we're all wearing masks. It's not even a little pleasant, but we understand. We ask all citizens to support the healthcare workers. There is a big problem in Belgrade. Citizens from Bujanovac and Presevo, it's very difficult to live there. I would also like to speak to the competent ministry to help solve the problems. People who face these problems in these three municipalities... The first problem concerns young people. What's going on with us? It is about economic development, new jobs, job creation and assistance in Serbia's largest cities. What did you do for Preshevo and Bear? You've ensured that there is a Coordination Body, but the representatives of the Coordination Body are in the government's cabinet. That is why their contribution to the realisation of our needs is relatively small. In these big problems that we have, the government isn't enough just to make plans for solutions for our future. By observing the work of the minister and deputy minister, we lack greater guidance from these people to solve the problems of the people on the ground. Do you want the most developed municipalities to be far more developed than our own? That's why we address the MPs to help us reach a higher level of development. This isn't the first time. We're looking for a way into the EU. The European family is denying it. Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja are multiethnic communities where Albanians, Serbs, Roma and other minorities live. Although every day we declare that we are working on the development of standards, young people are abandoning us. Our young people hear what Serbia is doing for development, but they do not see results and therefore leave Serbia. Presevo Valley is a major corridor in the Balkans and therefore economic development needs to be helped, but the government does not show that it wants to develop this part of the country. Given the opportunities that exist and the problems that exist in that part of the country, you act as if only Albanians live there, but you are wrong because there are Serbs, Roma and all other minorities, not only Albanians. That's why you need to help develop this part of the country and help us reach the others... Three kilometers from Bujanovac is a spa that is rich in thermal springs and is currently abandoned. Privatisation would develop opportunities for youth employment and for the development of tourism in this region. Investments reach Leskovec and Vranja, but they do not reach Bujanovac and Presevo. We call on the government to invest in this part of the country that is critical. My job and all the opposition colleagues is to fight hate against Albanians, because we are still here, and we represent these municipalities that deserve youth, deserve the future and jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4244	Just to remind you that the day after tomorrow we will have a session on parliamentary matters and government, so all you've been saying is the subject you should talk about and when they're representatives of the government here, but of course this question will be forwarded to them. I would also like to point out that you have announced that you will speak Albanian that we have been able to provide an interpreter and I thank you for not having any misunderstandings. So that's how we're going to behave in the next period in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law. Anyone belonging to a particular national minority or group may speak in their native language. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4245	Thank you. Dear President, Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, the club basketball club in the Nis cart was founded in 2017, with a desire, first of all, for a person with disabilities to do something nice through sport and creative work. This club officially started training in 2019, in a small hall, or small hall of the Chair hall, given that it was the only available option and despite the fact that it was not adapted to disabled people, or there is no suitable approach they continued to train in this area. The city has defined financial resources for their work as much as it could in its budgets so that they can participate in the organisation of tournaments, as well as in league competitions. As during the past year, and now in this year's Hall "Chair" due to an unfavourable epidemiological situation turned into a temporary Kovid hospital, all sports and recreational activities have been suspended to preserve, above all, the lives of citizens and not only the citizens of Nis, but the inhabitants of the southern part of our country who are referred to the treatment in this hospital. Believe it or not, in such a situation these brave boys have not given up their desire to socialize, to engage in normal life, and thus to realize their needs to get out of their homes and to engage in social flows. Despite such a situation, they tried to find a solution to continue with their trainings and in this sense the solution was found in the municipality of Major, which is 60km away from the town of Nis. With all the courtesy of the host in the Major Sports Hall after four months, these guys ran out of power to travel, and the administration ran out of financial resources to deal with these trips, so the question of the survival of the club itself was seriously questioned last month. With the very tenacity of the club management, but also the well-willed town of Niša, the club delegation, in agreement with the mayor, managed to bridge the above problem and in collaboration with the primary school Ivo Andric from Nis Club, received training sessions in their hall, which is fully adapted to all their needs, and when I say so, I think that free access and access to all rooms of this hall is possible. However, one such solution is in the short term, and in this sense I would like to ask the question, i.e. the application to the Ministry of Sports and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to help the city of Nis, both logistic and financial and in any other way, to first set up a ramp, or to adapt the approach of the Hall "Chair" to persons with disabilities, especially if we consider that these people's wishes and wills are not affected despite the situation in which they are located. So the city of Nis has a clear will, the city of Nis has shown that it has an understanding of their clear spirit and I ask the Ministry to help the city of Nis as much as possible, but also to other local self-governments that this problem is solved as soon as possible in order to engage in social flows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4246	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Daniel Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4247	Thank you. The Honorable President of the National Assembly, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungary today, I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure to Mr Momirović, or the Agency for Transport Security, as well as the Minister of Finance, Mr Sinisha Malo. The theme is cars, i.e. all vehicles involved in traffic on our roads. In particular, their registration, new rules, categorisation, luxury tax, subsidies, etc. These are very current issues that citizens have been asking us very often over the past few weeks. On July 5th of this year, a new Regulation on the division of motor vehicles and their technical regularity, which provides for stricter control of the emissions of harmful gases, enters into force. Vehicles will have to meet what their manufacturer prescribed during the technical examination when they were manufactured. The maximum number of vehicles without a catalyst or DPF filter, these are parts of the exhaust system that reduce the emissions of harmful gases, will not be able to register. The average age of the vehicle in Serbia is currently around 17 years old and it is precisely these old vehicles that will be the most affected by the new Regulation. The main problem is that the mentioned catalysts and DPF filters in many cases exceed the value of the vehicle itself and the average citizen simply cannot afford their replacement. Unofficial estimates suggest that the number of vehicles that will not be able to meet the standards is measured in hundreds of thousands of copies. On the other hand, we fully agree that it is absolutely unacceptable for several hundred thousand vehicles to cruise Serbia with completely removed catalysts and without DPF filters to release pure poison into the air. By eliminating these filters, these vehicles do not meet any euro norm and such vehicles are invalid for traffic. However, the new registration regulations are illogical because categorisation is not made according to the euro standard or year of production, but according to the date of registration. This means that the owners of two identical vehicles will be subject to different regulations, i.e. stricter conditions will have to meet the one registered after March 2014, and both vehicles are manufactured, for example, on 15 May 2010. The issue of luxury tax based on engine volume is long-term, and we think it's time to change the Regulation and determine the luxury tax according to other values. The difference must exist in favour of new vehicles, but right now this difference is too big. Now the owner of a 15-year-old car of, say, 3,200 cubic and 100 kilowatts, which is worth 2,000 euros, pays the registration of about 170,000 dinars, and the owner of a new car of 1,000 cubic metres of the same power of 100 kilowatts, a much higher value, pays about 20,000 dinars. This injustice is even more pronounced in historic vehicles that are mostly with a larger volume engine. Another challenge for them are the new rules of technical examinations of vehicles that oldtimers cannot meet, so it's impossible to register. In addition, for almost two years, the Agency for Transport Safety has not issued any assurances about the vehicle's test for imported historical vehicles, creating a large number of vehicles without adequate status, or without the possibility of registration. The specific questions are whether the Ministry, given the current epidemiological situation, will delay the application of the new rules, or whether it will try to find another solution, to say, instead of the date of the first registration, only be the date of production? The second question – when can we expect changes to the luxury tax on cars and when can we expect amendments to the Transport Safety Act regarding historic vehicles, or old timers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4248	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4249	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, I would like to ask a few questions today. First of all, I want to refer to a very important question that has been the subject of various polemics in recent days. Namely, it is a statement by European Parliamentarian Lukas Mandl, otherwise a member of the Austrian People's Party, whose President Sebastian Kurc, asked the European Commission about the impartiality of European intermediaries in dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. Among other things, Lukas Mandl said that on February 22nd 2021, EU representative Miroslav Lajcak made a statement for a portal, with a Western Balkans map in the background, showing Kosovo as part of Serbia. He condemns such a gesture and views Miroslav Lajcak as a biased mediator in the dialogue. He even asks that this map is not used in EU bodies, and the key question he asks is whether Mr Lajcak can continue to play the role of mediators in Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue. The same ambassador allows himself and other statements when it comes to Serbia. In his capacity as one of the European Parliament's rapporteurs, he said he is convinced that the vaccination policy in Serbia is not successful, but dangerous, as it fits in with an attempt from abroad to challenge conflicts within the EU and thus divide the EU. He meant, of course, that Serbia has vaccines of Russian and Chinese producers. This is not only brazen, it's highly biased. His colleague Viola von Kramon continued to say that Europe is neglecting geopolitical implications of the vaccination process in Serbia as well, referring primarily to the Russian vaccine "Sputnik V". European parliamentarians have either feared that a strong Serbia today as a sovereign country, and not an EU member, has secured vaccines for its citizens or that there may be something else behind all of this, which is more obvious, which is pressure on Serbia and it is precisely those who are biased, who do not correspond to Serbia's position and who are certainly trading their positions. In the name of whose interest it might be a question, but I'm afraid we have answers as well. On March 20th, here is a statement from our neighbour, Edi Rama, who brutally attacked Serbia's president only because on March 17th he placed the flag of Serbia across the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, saying it was a map of cobwebs. This happened after that spider map drawn by that friend in Belgrade, who plays with puppets on Facebook, Rama said during a visit to the country's northern town of Kukesh, reporters reported. True, it's a good attempt by Eddie Rama to express himself, only a little unsettlingly, but within what we could hear from the parliamentarians, well, after all, and a statement from the newly elected prime minister so-called. Kosovo, which says - we must be united against Serbia and we will demand a parliamentary debate until we are exhausted. I don't have time to deal with what happened last night in the assembly, but I would like to ask you, Mr President, as head of our delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe -- how do you assess these statements by Lucas Mandl, except that he is secretly standing on one side and showing his animosity towards the Republic of Serbia? Isn't this a form of pressure that shows that some Europeans don't want our issues to be resolved with respect for each other's rights, or is it, on the other hand, the impotence of European institutions to participate in Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue in an unbiased manner and to contribute to a fair solution to our southern province's problem, which should be the primary mission of those who have taken the obligation to possibly deal with it? Who knows what time in the past few days we've had the opportunity to see, not even double arches anymore, but one attack on Serbia from all sides, one attempt to force ourselves under heavy pressure to do something that we certainly won't agree to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4250	Thank you. Since you asked me a question, let me just say that, as is known, five countries have not recognised Kosovo's independence, EU member states. How does someone have the right in European institutions to demand that this part of Europe be mapped against the official position of the EU? Are there more important countries that have recognised Kosovo than those who have not recognised Kosovo, if it is well known that it is decided by consensus in Europe? Of course, we have another thing, and that's Lucas Mandl, who's from Austria and who resented it, who says our vaccination policy is dangerous, that it's geopolitical, and it's not a medical thing, and that's what the Russian and Chinese vaccines say. I would understand that if you didn't have the position of his prime minister and the head of his party, Sebastian Kurtz, who spoke with Putin two weeks ago to produce Russian vaccines in Austria. Wait, how can Russian vaccines be produced in Austria and Russian vaccines cannot be given in Serbia? Accordingly, no one will tell us what we're going to do, we're a sovereign and independent country, and if you ask me that question, that's my answer. The word is Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4251	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Members of Parliament, request a notice from the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, from the Ministry of Interior, from the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, from the Council of Anti-Corruption, from the Tax Administration of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, specifically from Minister Sinisha Malo, on whether Dragan Gilas is the owner of a series of secret accounts on exotic and other destinations, e.g. in Mauritius and did Dragan Gilas commit crimes of money laundering and tax evasion by avoiding paying for most of the capital gains, capital gains tax, I apologize for selling his company Darrekt Media? I'll explain. I did it myself, each of you can do it, a search of five minutes of the Internet, and I came up with the annual Deutsche Bank report for the last year of 2020, and in the part of the Deutsche Bank report, which is called the List of Shareholders, i.e. the subsidiaries, in the section on the daughters of companies and branches, we see that Deutsche Bank is the founder and owner of a business entity, a fund on Mauritius called Deutsche Securities Mauritius limited, and that it is precisely in that entity that Dragan Gilas still has 5.7m euros, according to the latest report, a copy of the accounts from 12 December last year. To repeat, the owner and founder of this company, which I cited as "Deutsche securitisations Mauritius restricted", is Deutsche Bank. In the report, it is a comprehensive report, you have the ownership of Deutsche Bank over one 600 entities of banks, funds around the world. In 242nd place is this company in Mauritius for which Dragan Gilas has been telling the truth for weeks, that he has no account and he has it. In further search, we see that this is an offshore company that is currently providing these data, services provided by offshore entities. You can have an account there, you can buy a plane, you can buy a yacht if you have money, you can hide your property under a cover firm that we have in this case. In this case, Gilas is hidden behind the cover of Askanius ltd, and he has two such front companies under the same name, only one in the Netherlands, and one in Luxembourg, and this is the third. In the final copy of the account, where as the company Askanius is the ultimate owner, i.e. holder, account holder, the manager is Dragan Gilas. As for the sale of the Darekt Media, it is even more interesting and significant for our country because of tax evasion. Dragan Gilas himself boasts that he sold the company for 17.7m euros and paid the biggest tax, which is 15% on capital gains, that is 2.6m euros. However, data, research, even KRIK, beware, I commend KRIK, show that Dragan Gilas later sold again a fictional scheme to School "Darek Media", and this time for 52.2m euros in 2018. For the time being, there is only a dilemma about how much tax evasion, or how much the total price of the 'Darrekt Media' was. Is it only 52.2m euros or 52.2m plus 17.7, or 69.9? So, in order to avoid paying taxes, Solak and the family made a whole network of fictitious sales to hide the full price of "Darrect Media". Therefore, the state of Serbia has been damaged by 5.2. Watch out, 5.2m euros or 7.8m euros for unpaid capital gains tax, I said, of what the full value of the "Darrekt Media" was. So today, Gilas' goal is, all he says when he insults journalists, when he refuses to answer questions, to hide all of this. Gilas' goal is to return to power again, to win hundreds of millions of euros again, that is to steal it and to achieve that goal, he does not choose the funds. It's simple, it's not normal, but it's understandable that today he's not telling the truth about it. He's not gonna say yes. I've been lying for years. No, of course not. What's the matter with you? What's with the cover-up? Why run from the truth? I strongly advise Dragan Gilas to admit that he pays back taxes, to mark his accomplices, and to hope that he will be able to apply the principle of opportunity with these three preconditions that I have cited. Admit it, Gilas, make it easy on the advice, if you have any advice. Admit it, Gilas, the stone will fall from your heart, if you have a heart. Admit it, Gilas, squeeze the loop unless you've donated the loop to the marines, so you don't have it, so keep it alive and healthy, Dragan Gilas. He'll answer to the law. I ask the authorities I have marked to answer this question – what are they doing about these two cases? Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4252	As no one calls from the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups anymore, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the sessions: Aco Petrovic and Borisav Kovacevic. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to supplement the proposed agenda and a proposal to merge the debate. National MP Gjorge Komlenski, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 16 November 2020. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4253	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow ends 22 years from the start of criminal, criminal, murderous NATO aggression at the time of the SRJ, not only on Serbia, but also on Montenegro, and nothing deserved, anything caused by aggression, which was not aimed at any humanitarian protection of anyone, because no humanitarian catastrophes were there, it was intended only to try to occupy the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. In these criminal and criminal acts, many of our fellow citizens, killed as members of the Yugoslav Army, were killed as members of the Ministry of the Interior, were killed as civilians. Today, and not only today but many years ago, we face the fact that the Serb victims of World War I, from World War II, the victim of Jasenovac, the victims of many other losses are trying to conceal, minimise and lead to a position that one day may lose any memory of them. Twenty-two years is enough time distance so we don't allow ourselves the luxury of the gaps that occurred earlier. If we have been missed before to determine the exact number of victims, I think now, with all these experiences, ourselves, because of Serbia, because of its future, because of our offspring, because of the truth, we cannot allow it. The proposal is for the commission to investigate and determine the exact number of all dead and wounded members of the Yugoslav Army, members of Serbia's MUP and civilian persons on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Dear colleagues, this is the least we can do for innocent victims and for Serbia's future, and especially for the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4254	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. Total – 180, for – 21, did not vote – 160. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article. Paragraphs 2 and 192, 3 and 157 of Article 2 are replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that a joint single search be carried out on the proposal for a decision to elect the Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data - for the protection of personality data and a proposal for a decision on the choice of a judge to be elected for the first time in office. Does Ambassador Martinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. Total – 182, for – 166, did not vote – 16. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on a proposal to supplement the proposed agenda and a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. Total – 182, for – 169, did not vote – 13. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty (A project to build broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a Law confirming Decision 1/2019 of the ESAA of the Joint Committee of 31 July 2019 replacing Annex I of the multilateral agreement between the European Community and its Member States, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations Mission in Kosovo (in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999) establishing a Common European Aviation Area, which has been submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a decision on the selection of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection - for the Protection of Personal Data, submitted by the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, and 4. The motion for a decision on the election of a judge who was first elected to the judge's office, who submitted the High Council of the judiciary. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister, Tatjana Matic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Saša Stevanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ana Tripovic, Director of Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance, Milan Dobrijevic, v.d. Assistant Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and Emma Dragulj, from the Public Debt Administration of the Ministry of Finance. Before we move to the first item of the agenda, I would just like to inform you that for the next Tuesday, I have already scheduled the next session of the National Assembly, with the following agenda: the first item – the Law amending the Law on Census, Households and dwellings in 2021, the second point – the Bill on Museum Activity, the third point – the Bill on Amendments of the Law on Judges, and I want to thank the Minister who last time respected our request to consider and that the Serbian Government gave a positive opinion on the proposal for legislation submitted by our colleagues, Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica, and this will be the third point of the agenda of next Tuesday, the fourth point – the proposal for a law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the maintenance and the reconstruction of travel decisions in the Old Townal judgments, the Old Town of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia – are the most important. Also, I want to inform you, on the basis of what we adopted today when it comes to the merger of agenda points, that we will work as every week, three days, that today we will consider the first item of the agenda, tomorrow the second item of the agenda, the day after tomorrow the third and fourth points of the agenda, and will be asked questions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Thursday from 16:00 to 1900 hours, and after that will be a day for voting, or we will enter into all points of the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW on Confirmation of the Treaty on Loans (Project of the Construction of the Broadband COMMUNICATION INFRASTRUCTURE IN RURAL SUPPORT) Between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 170(1), I am opening my Rules of Procedure a single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty (Project for the construction of broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I also welcome Minister Tatjana Matic and her associates and I give her my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4255	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear MPs, you are facing today a draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 18m euros, which was submitted by the Serbian Government and which envisions the implementation of the first phase of the project to build broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas. What does that really mean? It is a loan that we receive for the implementation of the first phase of the project, a strategic priority that provides ultra-fast broadband access for about 500 settlements, i.e. for about 80,000 households in rural areas, for which there was no commercial interest of an operator to invest in the network. The project was approved in December 2019 by the Management Board "Western Balkans Investment Framework" for a 1.7m-euro technical co-operation grant to prepare a project documentation, which includes feasibility studies, bone benefit analysis, indicative cost assessments and preliminary design. It was also a support, a huge support from the EU to Serbia on our economic and digital path to EU accession. The broadband internet is a way of connecting to the Internet that allows high data transmission speeds. Before the implementation of this project, the Ministry conducted an analysis, i.e. an overview of the existing state of availability of broadband Internet access, whose results are available on the Ministry Platform - Smart and Safe and this analysis has shown that there are so-called "Serb" in Serbia. white zones. These are areas that do not actually have adequate access to the broadband network and for which there are no operator plans for their construction over the next three years. It is also recognised that around 2,800 settlements with more than 320,000 households have a problem with broadband Internet access and that these are areas that are candidates for state incentives. Realisation of the first phase of the project will actually allow a digital society to be involved near a third of those who have so far had a problem with fixed internet access. The implementation of this project provides for the development of fast broadband networks in the so-called so-called network. White zones, as we have called them, in rural areas across the Republic of Serbia, focusing primarily on schools as access points and priority users. These access points will represent places from which a broadband network will be further extended to households, which, due to its distance from the urban environments, could not develop. This will primarily enable balanced regional development, reduce the lack of qualified labour force and, of course, allow the population to remain in rural areas, one of the main benefits in the realisation of this project. The project is implemented otherwise by enabling the construction of broadband infrastructure, a "midl Mayin" segment that will connect about 500 schools, i.e. public institutions in settlements in the white areas of rural areas with existing broadband infrastructure, and will provide a free long-term right to use electronic communications operators, selected through a public tender. In return, selected operators will parallelly build the infrastructure so-called “infrastructure”. It's the last of the Miles segments. It's actually a telecommunications technology that transmits signals from a broadband network at a relatively small distance from home to home and connects schools with, up to 80,000 surrounding households. This will also create a new platform for the development of digital services in these areas, i.e. new channels for development of IT services, IT industry, electronic trade, electronic tourism, etc., together with economic strengthening of underdeveloped areas. So far, the ministry has three public calls for operators. The first public call was for 60 settlements and contracts were concluded with four joint construction operators in 34 settlements. The second public invitation was issued in November 2020 for an additional 200 settlements and a decision was made in February this year on the selection of 89 operators' applications. For 29 settlements, we repeated a public call, i.e. we had a third public call to allow operators to re-apply, bearing in mind that the operator’s applications for the 29 settlements in question contained certain wrong data. The third public call was issued in December 2020 for 555 settlements. We received four operator applications for 527 different settlements. A decision to select an operator is expected soon and for this third last call. It is clear that the intention of this project is primarily to change and improve rural areas in Serbia and to invest in the area of broadband is otherwise directly affecting the number of jobs, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, the competitiveness of all sectors of the economy and the improvement and quality of life of citizens, which is our first priority. Studies have shown that when we increase the number of users by a fixed broadband approach by 10% of GDP, it increases by about 1% to 1.5%. By loaning the IBRD, we make credit to the Republic of Serbia under the following conditions – the amount of the debt of 18m euros, and the duration of the loan is three years from the date of the signing of the loan agreement, i.e. until 31 December 2023, which is the deadline for the completion of this project. The funds will be paid in tranches with a minimum amount of 100,000 euros. The maturity period is up to 15 years, including the start-up period of up to three years, after which the principal loan will start to pay off in 24 equal half-year wars. The first loan payment date was December 22nd, 2023, and the last loan payment date was June 22nd, 2035. The application of variable interest rates equal to the reference interest rate, the six-month eurobore increased by a fixed net of 1%, with the possibility that the interest rate is fixed if it is estimated to be a more favourable option from the public debt management point of view. The possibility of early payment of interest, as well as the cancellation of loans of a minimum amount of 1m euros, is also foreseen. The fee paid to the bank for the unused part of the loan of 0.5% a year and the registration fee per rate of 1% of the total amount of loans shall be paid once from the appropriations of the loan granted. I would like to point out once again that the project to build broadband access in rural areas is part of a wider initiative and represents the first of two phases, with the second phase aimed at connecting the network to 900 schools, i.e. public institutions and 135 thousand households planned as a separate project for 2021 and 2022. The aim of the government of the Republic of Serbia is that by 2025 there is no household that will not have the possibility of fixed access to the fast internet. In line with the strategy of developing new generation networks of the Republic of Serbia by 2023, as well as the general objectives of the EU, the Digital Agenda for the EU and the Agenda for the Development of the Information Society, the Broadband Internet Project in rural areas of Serbia will contribute and strengthen the foundations of modern public administration. The development of a broadband approach is also in line with the priorities of the VB six, a multi-year action plan for regional economic space, and is also one of the key areas in the negotiating chapter 10 – the information society and the media. I believe that MPs in voting day will support this proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia because the implementation of this project allows modern technologies to really be a means of achieving social equality, not economic polarisation, so that no citizen, or citizen, would remain on the analogue side of our society. This is one of the priorities on which the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications is continuously working, which is absolutely necessary for the normal functioning and development of society in the digital future in which we live. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4256	Thank you. We're moving on to reports from the committees in charge. The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4257	Dear President-in-Office, honourable minister, fellow Members, we adopted this draft law on confirming the loan agreement for this very important project on the Committee of Finance. Article 3 The 2020 Budget Law has practically started this whole implementation project through the conclusion of what you have stated, and this is the documentation that was needed to implement this important project now in 2021, but you will all agree that the pandemic has completely changed the way of life, that the broadband internet is very important not only for the city, but also for rural areas. What is of great importance, which when you see in the budget of a particular infrastructure investment, more infrastructure is not only roads and not only the electrification of certain parts of Serbia and is not only a water network, but obviously this high-explanatory network of the Internet, where it will be available to everyone, both to people in the city and to people in the country who live and work, and especially to young people, that simply with the help of data transmission they can function in an adequate way. At the time of the crown, as you can see, and today this is the case, we have seen schools work through online teaching, which shows the essential need of children, whether they live in the city or in the country, that they have a good internet, which shows that young people living and working in the country is of great importance that they will stay in the country if they have access to the Internet and this regional development that we are constantly talking about between the north and south, central Serbia and eastern Serbia, somewhere, and these differences in this regional development are deleted when you have the realization of such projects. It is of great importance to say that this first phase, which you have listed, covers the part relating to 500 schools and 80,000 households, and the second phase includes 900 schools and 135,000 households. This means that Serbia will fully be equipped and these are some of the goals that I think the Government of the Republic of Serbia has set with Ana Brnabic's arrival at the head of the government and, on the proposal of Aleksandr Vukic, 2016. No one could believe that we were really going to leave so quickly, because until then there were no financial opportunities to make these loans happen. Let me remind you that the strategies for the development of broadband networks and services started as early as 2014. So, the government of Aleksandra Vukic and Ana Brnabic were thinking in advance of something like this that simply connects Serbia with information and fully network and raises it to one higher level, that people living in both Serbia and Hungary and Austria have the same right to work and live and raise a higher level of standard of living when it comes to rural development in general and when it comes to rural work. That's why I think a lot of young people are just going to stay at their houses to live, and that's of great importance especially to Serbia, as well as to our future and the future of our children. So in voting day, I think we're all going to support this kind of project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4258	Thank you. Before we move on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, I just want to agree to Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now let's move on. Vice-President of the Assembly and MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4259	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, is the subject of today's debate of the Loan Treaty on a project to build broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas, i.e. areas. We MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party are especially looking forward to this topic or topics that have to do with access to the village, i.e. with special attention to the village and rural areas. During the past term, we have repeatedly insisted on this topic, and therefore we give full support to this definition of the government and other authorities of the Republic of Serbia, which demonstrates the readiness of increased attention to the development of the village. Certainly, in the election of the new government and the adoption of the Law on Government and the fact that we have received the ministry, especially the ministry that will take care of the village, is actually confirming the correct orientation when it comes to the village. The importance of the village is most often treated on a partial or partial basis or on certain segments. All this suggests that most of the political factors and state bodies of the institutions in this country understand the importance of the village, but we still lack, they can say, one more comprehensive approach to the village. Or, I think we're a little short on our own consciousness, both of us who represent the people, but also other entities in this country, both on the personal or on the collective or official agenda. There is still little awareness that the issue of the village is not only a question of certain problems that citizens, i.e. the country's inhabitants, are facing, but that the theme of the village, the theme of rural development, is something that is one of the basic, strategic issues in terms of the country's future. So, the question of the village is not only a question of the state of the citizens who live there, it is a question of different routes or lanes in our future. First of all, I mean the subject or the problem of demographics itself. So we have heard and heard a lot of views and opinions about our demographic policy, which seeks to find an adequate response to the negative demographic processes in this country. True, this topic is layered and it cannot be tied to the village alone, but it must and can be very important to the village. If we take into account the historical experience of the human race, we will undisputedly conclude that there is no example in which the cities survived if they lost the backdrops of the villages. There is no example, not at any point in the globe, not in any historical period or moment that densely populated cities, large cities, small cities, any cities survived unless they had a living and intense backdrop of villages. The moment the villages go missing, the cities don't stand a chance. If we follow the migration movements of the citizens of this country, we will undisputedly conclude that they first started evicting from those villages that are most endangered. In fact, first the citizens started to move or flee, if they could say so, from those rural areas where the most difficult living conditions were, whether it was climate conditions, whether it was infrastructure, distance or various other problems, but definitely the citizens started to leave those villages first. These are the most common villages of high altitudes, because they are the most endangered, with the worst infrastructure and with particularly difficult conditions, above all climate conditions. So there we first encountered a wasteland, a demographic wasteland when it comes to this country, or when it comes to our village. After that, there goes the emigration of medium-high villages, then the low villages, and then the migration of smaller towns to larger cities, and then the leak of bigger cities. Therefore, the issue of access to the village, of course through communication infrastructure and in the Internet segment, which is our topic today, but also in all other segments, is not only a matter of solving certain specific problems, but it is a matter of strategic importance, that is, our strategic orientations regarding stopping demographic erosion which, as you see, is so present and so threatening that I am afraid that it is not enough for us to solve this issue in certain segments and that we have in our reports certain shifts, and that we still fail to stop that erosion. If we want to serve certain experiences, we can single out the two countries as the most successful in this time of our lives, which worked on demographics, or negative migration movements. The countries that managed to be the most significant inhabitant countries. The question of Israel is the most successful settler country. We cannot learn too much, but the issue of Ireland, for example, was in the 1960s in a worse or more difficult position than we are now and the rest of the Balkan countries. So it was a land left daily by its inhabitants, or its citizens. The authorities there have understood the seriousness and danger of the situation, move and form programmes to stop negative migration movements and succeed not so quickly, but for some two decades to completely reverse the wheel of their history in this regard. After two decades, they became the settler country, and today they are the most intense country in the country, the country with the highest intensity. So, Ireland, which was just 40, 50 years ago, which we are now going through, has managed to become the most attractive country to move in with. However, if we look at the content of their programme, you will see that there are no cosmetic small procedures, they realize that they have to make one radical turn and make such a thorough program that comes from extremely large steps. The first thing they did or the most significant ones are tax reliefs for rural areas or tax reliefs for investment in rural areas. Because what is the key moment for you to turn a citizen or a resident from a course of flight towards staying or towards the direction of arrival? Motive, he must be motivated. He must have a big motive, not a little motive. It's not easy, of course. That program must contain the measures I'm talking about. So, tax breaks and creating conditions for a normal life in the country. And that won't just be enough, because there's one cultural and psychological problem here. We, especially the villagers of the village, have declared the villages a failure and you have a cultural problem in most villages, which are in a difficult state, and most of them are such that it is believed that one who could not escape from the village, that he is a failure, that only one who managed to escape from the village to a town or town, is successful. The rest of them are poor people who didn't manage, and for the one who ran away, they're not said to have left, moved out, but to have managed. He's resourceful, he's capable, and those who stayed are left to fail. So, in addition to these measures that go on the economic, investment plan, infrastructure, communication, we need to actively work culturally, work to prove through these measures and through these programmes that life in the country can be a quality, or quality standard, rather than life in the city. So that life in the country can be an elite one, of course, who has insight into how to live in large centres in developed countries, is generally known. For example, in New York City, up to 30 kilometers outside of New York, the elite live, the richest people live. From 30 to 100 kilometers outside of New York, there's a middle class living in New York, and there's poor people living in New York when it comes to housing. It's common knowledge. So, in one of the most developed and developed cities in the world. We need a comprehensive front, we need a comprehensive alliance, a political, cultural, media, economic one, that we would overcome some kind of daily political rhetoric, a populist one, where we're going to say something to fascinate one of our own target groups of voters and pass after that, forget it and look for a new story. We need to take a deep dive. We need to create a program that will be based on courage and determination and that will not be linked to only one party, not just one ruling period, which must be long-term strategic development. Of course everything we do is also good, and I want to share joy with you again, because we have, for example, on the Cave of the last years, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, taken very important steps. That's where people were the most endangered category in this country, because of the road. We were able to build this so-called cave highway, which gave birth to that world. Just thanks to this trip, some 20km across the cave, you already have people from the diaspora who are coming, hosts, who are starting to invest, still building roads on the Cave, which is a big step. And this time I'm going to mention that in fact, Corridor 11 that passes through the cave, north and south is actually going to mean a new page of history for the whole area and that to a significant extent this program will be able to rely on these big projects, because now imagine that you are a cave peasant, or a population that has been facing below minus 20 degrees for months, imagine when he has to deal with it, and when he doesn't even have a asphalt. How are you going to keep a child in a country that doesn't have an Internet, how are you going to keep all this talk and what are we talking about now? Therefore these steps must be supported, and they will always be supported by the People's Messengers of the Justice and Reconciliation Party. What it is is a paradox, when it comes to negative migration. I've lived in Africa for four years, and I've had opportunities to see with my own eyes what's not possible with us, let alone see. So I spent weeks in the Sahara and the Desert. People have sheep there too, but believe me, those sheep don't look like sheep at all. You know, you look at that sheep and it goes out into the desert to feed and it eats some grass, which looks more like a thorn than a weed, so it walks 15 meters, and it eats another weed. I don't understand how she survives. But she lives and she gives some milk. Now, imagine you, and I've said it many times in some other lectures, the curse is, the challenge of the curse, to be even more precise, if one nation in an area where eight months of cattle can feed outside, to feed without buying food to that cattle, so two-thirds of the year you have green pastures, where God gives rain and gives fertile land, where grass grows. Being poor in such a country is some kind of curse and it deliberately caused a curse. So, compared to people who live in various desert parts and infertile parts of this country, it makes sense to you when people flee from Afghanistan, Syria, from various other parts of the country, but when people flee from the most beautiful parts of this country where you just need to do a little bit of work, as an individual, as a country to make every day, every month and every year, at least by a millimetre, we raise that water supply of standard, that peasant, or residents in the country. Believe me, it doesn't take much. We just have to do what's up to us. Of course, when it comes to funds and everything else, here's what my colleague Misale was talking about this morning, so it is simply necessary to sew up what comes from certain government or European funds from Belgrade to the periphery. He should be here. You know, we often have these ways of money, whether it's about donations or various other support, they look like when the water goes through the sands, so at first there's a lot of water, by the time the water arrives, there's just a little water. So, we have to fix those furrows, these conductors, that when it comes to these funds, they don't usually end up with some traffickers, smugglers, etc., so that we don't get what happened to that poor guy in Proboj last year who sold her raspberries to a buyer or a buyer who just left, no dinar ever paid them, and then we people who talk to us -- well, well, why didn't you sue? They say we don't have the money to sue. To sue them, to go after the courts now, you need money, that's the poor girl who put everything into her raspberries. We can't as a state view it as chess pieces, so say you have dishes. No, we need to find parallel paths to protect people. Every citizen of this country, and that is my highest level of patriotism, will create such a system where the entire flow of the state will circulate to the last capital, to the farthest point of this country, and where that poor citizen will know that the country's central authorities in Belgrade have a sense of it, whether it's that poor peasant to whom someone has committed violence, kidnapped his raspberries and gone, gone. This poor woman only knows to report to someone she knows from our political representatives on the ground and say, "People, save us, we can't go any further." What's the message? These people, unless we help them to charge their own money, they're left with nothing but to pick up and go. Such examples in various and similar situations are many. The state must be a protector to its citizen, but not cold, not only do you have the law. The laws are a dead category. The laws are important and we bring them here as you see every day, and they are very wonderful most often, but laws without people to apply them, laws without people who will have humanity about themselves, laws with people who are soulless are not laws, they are meaningless laws, they turn against man. That is why we need to further spread the front in this direction with all these steps in terms of investments that will happen, which will certainly be supported by our MPs, but let us spread our wings, spread the front, give hope, give a message and stand behind that message to every citizen of this country, wherever there is, wherever the nation, whatever the confesionation is, that it feels that this country is protecting it, that it is behind it, and that this is the best way to preserve both the integrity and sovereignty and integrity and all the other interests of this country. It's actually true patriotism and it's actually what needs to make the state what it needs to be and that citizens are proud of their country, and also that the state has its citizens, not only as a category of protection, but as its own strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4260	Thanks, buddy. The president of the JS parliamentary group Dragan D. Markovic Palma has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4261	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Unique Serbia will support this bill and we are in favour of the even development of the village and the city. What's most important, we all know, the Internet is the future and there's nothing we can do without the Internet. We have a problem, now will someone say it's a problem or fashion or a great absence from work obligations when it comes to children. Kids don't go to schools, they don't go out at night, everything's closed, and they spend all their time by the Internet on social networks. And what's the problem? Most of these young people, kids, don't read everything that's nice for this country, and that we have four vaccines, that someone else far more developed in economic terms doesn't have one vaccine or have only one, they don't care whether they're paved roads or not, how much retirement is blankets and grandmothers, and when we look at that year and something lasts a block of children's freedom we've abolished and taken children's rights. They don't go to school, and statistics say that a small number of children are infected by the Covid 19 virus. It's all closed, there's nowhere to go, there's a higher level of risk when they go to a private apartment at parties, but at a bar. You, as resolute minister, I'm sure you know this subject that I'm talking about, so let's see how we can help our parents and move our children on to something other than focus all the time... I have five grandchildren in my house. Between 10 and 18 years old, and that's the current problem. We fight, not to yell at them, but to ask them, what have you read today? Then they find me some guy who's banging like an open window, then someone who's fucking in some cartoon. None of them told me, except the oldest grandson of Dragan, that something good had happened in Serbia. If we continue this way for the next year, and surely, the profession says there will be a problem with Kovid 19 and the next year, what is the future of these children. There's something called becoming a habit, and you get used to living as someone who's used to drinking, can't drink without alcohol, so kids get into a situation that they can't do without social networks. Online class. What online class? It's a copy of everything. What knowledge? Nothing. I can give myself the right to say this, because not only do I have 12 family members, we all live in one house, but I ask the children when I meet them on the street, when I see them somewhere, I ask them something that matters what happened in the past period of time. What else is the problem? Kids, don't have any physical activity. We loved the most in school physically. If they don't have any physical activity for motorbike, which is important for the development of the organism of every young man, how he can't run a dog tomorrow when he chases it. All ministers, we have to focus on it, or you're ministers, and we're someone who chose you. It is our right to say what we think, and of course we support the government. And it's not just about the vaccine, the vaccine. Because of this subject, let's go ask why only 40% of healthcare workers have been vaccinated. Why? People say, "There must be something there." Well, what's there? There is nothing other than propaganda, those other competitions or someone who has the right to say – vaccine, they're installing a chip, so this is going to happen to you, like, etc. That's what we have to do, not deal with right now – my portfolio is a optical cable, forgive ministers, nothing bad, or my portfolio is tourism, and I'm not interested in this other one. It's all closely connected. If the topic is the agenda in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, something that is not important, to say – sorry, we accept all of that, those points, but let's see this point as well. I don't want to listen to a minister for a month about how good it is for both marriages to adopt children. Is that what my children and your children and others should read? Is that it? Is that an education? Is that the future? We have to give a media dose during this time period when everyone's at their homes what's to go and what's to be broadcast. You're a resolute minister, and you depend on tourism, or Serbia depends on tourism, and we're the first state to have the largest number of vaccines, but what's worth, here, is happening in cities that there are vaccines, and no one's registered for tomorrow? Let's go to the villages. I gave a warrant in Jagodina four days ago, lists all over the villages, and we go to every village. When he sees that agricultural producer coming to him, a doctor, a nurse, and before that, it is explained to them that he is not receiving a vaccine because of Vukic, because of the government and because of Zarko Obradovic, but to protect himself and his family. I told my family that when someone comes for coffee, I live in the country, every day 10-15 people, they ask if they were vaccinated. If not, thank him and tell him - when this virus passes, he can come for coffee. Is that what we should do, that half the people hate me, because they don't understand. They think I had to vaccinate because I'm a politician. I didn't have to, but I had to do it for my family, because of the people I'm healthy with, I'm seeing. Here I am, when I'm on the Terrace, waiting for my car to come, but my private car, not the state's driver, while I wait for my car, every other man asks me a question, and that means he can pass the virus on to me. Then they say -- they can make cafes, but they can't sing. At 12 meters, drops come out of your mouth. Who's the one who can spit at 12 meters? He can go to the Olympics. I'm serious. I speak as an ordinary man, and all of us messengers are powerless. Each of us has these questions in the cities where we live, to see how we can solve the problem of social networks. We can't stop it. Whether it will go through school, through your parents or you will say – here, for two hours you have the right to be a minor to be on social networks, and to turn off that apparatus, because now 95% of those living in the country have their own satellite device via which they can have a signal and be on social networks. It's the greatest evil today, ladies and gentlemen. The evil of today and the evil of the future. I'm for our kids to go to school, to do everything for us. You're the Minister of Tourism and Trade. Can you explain to me how large markets do it, where 85% of foreigners are owners of large shops, and not those small shops, whose owners are family, father, son, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, etc? Well, this one's gonna keep a physical distance from having a small shop. And he's going to say, at two, three meters, you have to be one of each other, etc., but we locked him up. By the time you locked him up, you transferred his customers to a large market, where 80% of the goods are from abroad and we destroy our economy knowingly or unconsciously. Please, I respect you very much. You let CEFTA go. So CEFTA was signed to have imports of all products in Serbia, but market owners must be told – all right, come on 50% of the goods from imports, 50% of domestic goods. Well, we don't have meat, ladies and gentlemen. I'm a little busy with that. Don't mind me, fellow MPs. We have meat that we eat in these markets a year old, his soul froze and I can tell CEFTA it's arranged. It is someone before us, but how do we save this gentleman from a farmer who's really struggling? He gets paid once a year. When he gets caught up in the elemental accidents, five years should come back for what he invested that year. Of course, without the Internet, it's an undeveloped state, but to use the Internet in economics, in information. Next, you see how many fake profiles he has. How do you as the Ministry of Telecommunications fight it? A fake profile and now says - Secretary of Parliament rides donkeys, bangs, mounts. May the Secretary of Parliament forgive me. Not to say something any uglier than everything is said and written on those social networks. How to protect those who are in power, whom the people have chosen as president of Serbia, where they are threatened by social networks, him and his family. That's what ordinary people say, "Well, you see, Wolf, they're threatening me, and what are they going to do to me as an ordinary man, who's going to protect me?" Ladies and gentlemen, each of the ministers, don't hold on to yourself as a mother-in-law, just what's your resort, but a little wider. This is a state of emergency now, gentlemen. World emergency, remember. Since August of the month around the world, such an economic crisis has been unremembered for the past hundred years, and only those who have certain reserves and a good budget that is being filled from the original revenues can pass. This is what the state of Serbia has at the moment, but the state of Serbia cannot provide assistance for workers every three months. Well done to doctors and experts, but they're only looking at their profession. We need to look a little wider. Did we get something that doesn't work on individual objects? Did we get anything? Nothing. Same increase, some day less 1%, 2%, and some day more, etc. So we have to make peace, with living and respecting the measures. So there's a problem just respecting the measure. Otherwise, there is discrimination between an ordinary man who has a small shop. Where you see a small store in the village or in the city, there was a big window to his road, made a window, lost his job while they were yellow, sold his factories and businesses and well-being and those who were bad and he fed the family. The one in the colorful market, too. Watch out, you guys, keep your mouth shut. The cargo yards are closed, my men. Well, it's being built. Here's how many cranes there are in Belgrade. So, where are they going to buy construction material? So, how's that on the payroll, where 95% of the building material is going to get infected? Every day you ask to visit on TV, this is about your vault, because if you stop the store, then you don't charge the budget, the builders are out of work, I mean building material. If the stores don't work, we have over 400,000 people who are employed with owners in small independent shops and we don't want to keep quiet about it. We want to help President Wolfie. When he tells them something, they attack him. They attack him because he needs to fill the budget, and increased salaries to doctors, one-time assistance, pensions increased, workers of small, medium and large enterprises are given a certain number four times, etc. Dear lady, don't, it's not my job description. Well, it's not my description of the job as a MP and president of the party to go to Egypt and return friendly relations between Egypt and Serbia. Four times so far I've been and it's not the same as three years ago. Egypt is one of the most powerful states in the Middle East, wants to co-operate with Serbia. We need those where it is decided in the UN General Assembly, and it is very important that this country lobbying the African-Arab state in the interests of Serbia, not to lobby to bribe, but to fight with the truth, and the truth can only be if you have contact, that all who are members of some friendly groups, travel these MPs, go around, that you provide money, although there is, to travel to all these countries. That constant contact, people, it means a lot. I also had a reception in the Egyptian Parliament. I've spoken to the MPs... Time's not up?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4262	You've got four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4263	I'm sorry. I had contact with the Egyptian MPs. What's the deal? All that we think is injustice, that we place them and that they in their parliament fight for it. We have friendships with 150 states and to give the green light to all MPs, I'm sure neither the President of the Ivica Dacic Assembly nor Odalovic nor the president of Serbia, but let's start with some letters, because when you start with the letters, let the five parliaments accept you from the 20 letters. It's a success. When we explain who we are, what we are, why they bombed us, we create a different picture in the world. So, respected Minister of Telecommunications, Trade and Tourism, this topic that I was talking about is closely related to you and each of the ministers. How many ministers are there, Zarko? Fifteen, sixteen, it doesn't matter. Sometimes people want to be given an assignment, to say it – now you're going to do it. Since I've known about myself, I've never asked anyone to give me... Just to tell you, President Vukic offered me to be minister, I refused. Tadic offered me to be minister, I refused. I wanted to show that I could work for Serbia as if I had three ministerial functions. I don't brag about this, but there's a report that's how many states I've visited with my delegation. It's a state-of-the-art policy. Before I leave, I'll brief President Vukic and tell him what's going to happen. When I get back, I give him the report. I took two businessmen to America when I left. I'm the only Serbian politician who's been to Donald Trump's inauguration. One of them made a fivem-euro contract, a job, and here's three more contracts he's made. Not only that, I brought nine businessmen from Italy who opened factories in Jagodina nine and two in some other cities. Two factories from Vienna. Look, Germany is coming, the factory is opening, it's already finished, June of the month in Jagodina. They'll hire 350 workers. I had no contact with the government, no president, no president of the state. Not that I didn't want to, but I didn't want to bother them. For each of us to do something by himself and say, "Here, I have done it and I have done it, especially the ministers. I'm not the kind to criticize ministers, but simply the minister today... When you tell an ordinary man a minister, he doesn't know what your portfolio is. To conduct a survey, please, Serbian citizens only know, perhaps, three names of who the ministers are, they have no idea. Don't think I'm saying this right now so your authority will cut you down. No one living knows who the Minister of Economy is, who the Minister of Trade and Tourism is, so I don't keep counting. So no one lives in Serbia. Nobody. He doesn't need to know, but to see why he... Who's that woman who said what's bothering my five-member family? Yeah, it's the Minister of Trade, the Minister of Telecommunications, etc. Forgive me if my tone was a little bit higher, but the subject is like that, and we're in an emergency, unofficial, informal state. In every sense, that word. We'll vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4264	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Minister Tatjana Matic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4265	Dear Mr. Markovic, I would first agree with you, and I have said it publicly several times that this epidemic situation is practically the most severe crisis that has happened to the whole world since World War II. We live, especially those who deal with tourism, in one state of war, and indeed wage one war for the survival of the sector, primarily tourism, of course, and trade. I'd go back to the agenda right now and I wouldn't look back at any of your other allegations. I'd still talk about what's on the agenda today. This is, above all, the issue of the development of broadband internet and access, a broad-based approach that involves, among other things, the development of the Internet. When we speak, it is clear that like everything else, so modern technology can be a very good servant and a very bad master. That's the case with other areas, not just modern technologies. We are also aware of this as a resolute Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and I as a State Secretary in the Resort Ministry, first for Trade, then for Tourism and Telecommunications, together with Mr Rasim Ljajic, since 2012, I have worked in this portfolio, and in the State Administration since 2002, I know very well what we have done, first and foremost, in the field of prevention, when we talk about the abuse of modern technologies and the protection of children. I'd remind you, you're probably not informed about this, but here's a chance for you to learn from the young minister today, that in 2017 the National Contact Center was founded... (Dear D. Markovic: Who can learn? I didn't interrupt. Please, can you let me finish? ... that the National Contact Centre for the Safety of Children was established on the Internet. The National Contact Centre for the Safety of Children on the Internet has been there since 2017. Fifteen thousand students had the opportunity to educate themselves on the dangers of children on the internet through this institutional mechanism, which was set up by the government of the Republic of Serbia on the proposal of the Resolute Ministry. 397 lectures were held, 5,000 parents were involved in the education and protection of children and education of parents about how children are protected from abuse on the Internet. This is a system co-ordinated by the MUP, the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Social Protection is also involved in the Prosecutor's Office of Higher Technology Crime. So, it's a mechanism that exists and based on which there has been a lot of protection and procedural people and various types of objects where it has been, and in this we have managed to create a successful mechanism within the resolution ministries that will protect children from abuse, which, on the other hand, will provide parents with the opportunity and opportunity to learn something about modern technologies, because, as you said well, citing your grandchildren, that, since I am the mother of two underage children, boys, I know how can be the negative impact of modern technologies, Internet, overuse of various social networks or video games on children's health, mentally and psychologically. I agree and I agree with you here, but there are mechanisms and the state has established mechanisms to combat such abuses. On the other hand, this does not mean that the use of modern technologies in the process of teaching is wrong. On the contrary, it is desirable. We can't because of everyone, I say, side effects of the negatives ignore that fact. In the moments of the outbreak of this pandemic and the complete lokdown and the closure of online teaching was one of the better solutions and more successful, and on which many other more developed countries congratulated us. I agree with you when you say nothing can replace school and go to school in the lives of children. I fully agree with you, and I think that in the moments when everything stops, schools, especially primary schools, they should have worked and they were really working as long as the epidemiological situation allowed it, as you are, I'm sure, very well aware that children of younger age, by the fourth grade of primary school, still go and have classes, of course, in one other principle, shortened, different, but they go to school. Also, I agree with you that going to school for children is of crucial importance, not only to acquire better knowledge and skills, but also to socialize them. All of this has, since you mentioned your dear colleague, Mr Obradovic, who was once Minister of Education, we all understand very well how important education and the process of going to school for the development of children, psychologically and their social life. In that sense, you will always have a fellow in me to allow the school, especially the primary school, to function as long as possible, of course, and epidemiological conditions to allow it, I will always advocate that children go to school. But once again, I want to point out that modern technologies, besides their own bad side, of course, have huge benefits, and we're simply trying to represent one side and the other and we have a mechanism that fights abuse. I'll conclude in the end with just one more detail that I think is important, you know, since I'm a mother and since you're a parent, in the process of growing up children, whether we're talking about the 21st century or the 18th century or the 19th century, the role of parents will never change. So we can't, I can't institutions, I can't norms, I can't replace the role of parents. Each of us has an obligation to monitor the behavior of his children on social networks and sanction it. So the parent and the role of the parent are always the same and the parents are the ones who need to take responsibility for themselves, and the state is creating mechanisms that can respond to the problems you've been talking about, and I say, the state created these mechanisms. In addition, when we speak the same about hate speech on social networks, these are all major problems, that hate speech of course is not allowed, of course it should be sanctioned by each and every one of us, and especially the resolute ministry when we talk about children, it has very successful co-operation, I said already, and with the Prosecutor's Office of High-Technological Crime, but also with the MUP doing a great job and their Department of Combating High-Technological Crime and any hate speech and dissemination of any such content is automatically sanctioned. Now let's get back to the pandemic and the trade sector. What you were talking about closing retail facilities, I don't know what kind of retail objects you were referring to specifically, we've been up all along, especially me, that practically even in the moments of the biggest epidemiological crisis, we thought that stores that aren't within the major malls could work, where you have a direct entrance from the street and the outside, that it's just better to control respect for epidemiological measures. As far as I know, first of all, the shops that were engaged in the sale of food products worked during the times when it was strictest in Serbia, when they were in force the strictest and most rigorous measures. So, even when we had curfew, there were small shops, exactly which you're talking about and which you stand for, and which I advocate to survive, they were allowed to work in these police hours for up to five hours, as I recall, it was a working time. So I don't know exactly what kind of retail facilities they're dealing with, but here we know today they don't do big malls, and they can work, all the food stores and others are open. I would say only in the end that, for all of us, when we talk about the tourism sector, the measures we took last year, and that we continue to bring this year, are going in the direction, of course, to save jobs in that sector, at the same time, to prepare ourselves for a post-kovid period. I have to say, it's all in our best interests, whether we're talking about the trade, tourism or telecommunications sector, to get back to one normal life that we're used to. It's all in our best interests, and I'm going to appeal again from this place to vaccinate. Fast and effective immunization is the key to returning to normal or to the life we've had. Since Serbia is among the most successful countries in Europe when it comes to immunisation, I sincerely hope that it will remain that way and that with this successful immunisation we will be able to overcome, I agree with a completely post-covelable period that will be highly challenging in economic terms, but the key to getting out of this crisis, no one should have a delusion, is rapid and effective immunisation. I think that all the people who have been vaccinated, who have followed the measure and who have done everything that the state has asked them to do, that all these people really should be respected in relation to those who do not understand that in the 21st century immunization is the only way out of this economic, social and social crisis, so as we see psychologically as well, that we're all going to stand up for it, and here you said that you're vaccinated, too, and I, for as successful and faster immunization as possible, because it's the only way out of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4266	Thank you. Right on the replica of Dragan Markovic Palm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4267	You've misread me, Minister. First you told me I'd learn something from you. I had the first satellite in central Serbia on the roof, so I was sure if not the first, third, mobile phone when the technical possibility existed, and you're not here to teach us some MPs from you, but to say or not what we suggest, because ours is the best intention. You say, "You don't know what's closed, what are little shops?" So the food stores that sell bread, salami, flour, powder, beer, they were closed, and the big markets were open. Discrimination, genocide over small shops. Yes, it is. I live in a village where there are four shops and I pass through a village that has five shops. None of them worked, because they were measures, so please, because as time went by while you were answering me, you agreed with me. So you've all agreed in a slightly different form and you've all agreed. I'm glad we're on the same assignment, just don't humiliate the MPs who come from the village, you know, so we're guarding goats and milking cows, and you're gentlemen. Just don't do it. To be respected and that each of us culturally can ask whatever he wants. I didn't say you were doing bad work. I told you what your intelligence is and why you should fight in the government and don't blame me for it. I, be sure, will not say that I worry more about Serbia than you do, but Serbia is on my soul and every day I follow and how many people are infected and how many people died, etc., what it is called the economic crisis, where the state is going to give pensions, etc. And you don't look closely at your portfolio and don't be offended that I told you no one knows you in Serbia. It's not your fault, but it'll introduce you to the works, and now everyone's gonna hear about you because you agreed with Palm 90 percent. I'm a man of my life. Look at my paper, I don't write anything, I don't have a reminder. I came, I asked Zika what's on the agenda, I listened to you and I'm out of my life and I'm not telling you that I was the most successful businessman in Yugoslavia. In 1995, I received the title "Manager of Yugoslavia", that I was engaged in sports, it will take half an hour, I don't want to talk to you about it, and I say to myself that I am an ordinary man and each of us MPs has the right to ask, if it's cultural, whatever they want. I didn't ask for my Cončarevo, I asked for all of Serbia, so I ask that this communication be so much more flexible. You're an expert minister, I didn't say you weren't, but you know what, once a man stands up for something, I stand up for it, and there's no realisation. I couldn't hear it in public. I'm sorry if you found out I had a bad intention, of course I didn't have a bad intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4268	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4269	The President-in-Office, respected minister with associates, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, the development of IT technologies has been increasingly sought, and the need for new ways of integration that have become a broad-ranging Internet access has emerged. With the appearance of a fast internet, users have more opportunities, with minimal costs. The development of broadband networks has a major impact on increasing the quality of everyday life of people and helps to function more efficiently in many areas. It is therefore necessary to access the construction of broadband infrastructure in areas where citizens do not have good internet access, which are suburban and rural areas. Based on the 2019 data, only 69% of rural households in the Republic of Serbia are connected to fixed broadband networks, while 85% are connected in urban areas. These data talk about the difficult approach and economic opportunities of a large part of the population, but also about the inequality between urban and rural areas and their opportunities. Ensuring broadband access to each citizen is the primary task of modern civilization and the UN Declaration 2010 has been set as a millennium target. The broadband internet connection not only allows faster internet access, but changes the whole way the Internet is used. Wide access allows citizens to use a large number of modern services and services, such as: electronic business, banking, trade, education and healthcare, other than telephone, internet and TV. By adopting the New Generation Network Development Strategy by 2023 in April 2018, at the proposal of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, the Serbian Government showed its determination to fully transform the economy and business in the Republic of Serbia. The project to build broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas of the Republic of Serbia is a strategic priority project, given that the implementation of this project aims to improve broadband communication through the construction of a lack of access infrastructure in rural settlements in the Republic of Serbia and the integration of public institutions, notably primary schools and households to a broadband network. Prior to the implementation of this project, the ministry carried out an analysis, i.e. a review of the existing state of availability of broadband internet access and an analysis of the need to provide incentives for the construction of broadband communication infrastructure in the white areas of rural areas of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in areas which do not have access to the broadband network. During 2017 and 2018, in collaboration with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Ministry developed a detailed analysis of the state of access to fixed broadband internet, as well as a study proposing different models of incentives for building fixed broadband infrastructure, depending on geographical, demographic, and socio-economic specificities of certain parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In the second half of 2019, in co-operation with electronic communications operators, the ministry built fixed broadband access maps in the Republic of Serbia and the results showed that there are slightly more than half a million households in rural areas, where there is no economic interest of infrastructure development operators based on next generation approach, so-called. White and grey zones, i.e. areas which do not have access to a broadband network and areas where there is no more than one broadband network or there are plans of operators to build a maximum of one broadband network over the next three years. During the analysis, 1,518 settlements in the Republic of Serbia with 251,960 households where intervention is potentially justified through capital incentives, as in the same below 40% of households there is the possibility of a wide-ranging approach to the new generation, as well as 1,370 settlements with 70,712 households that recognise the need for intervention, which could also be realised through capital incentives. The results of an analysis of the situation have shown that the country's incentive measures are necessary to build infrastructure and allow for a balanced regional development in the Republic of Serbia, as in regions with high penetration of broadband access there is a significant impact on GDP growth and employment. A positive effect on the realisation of incentive measures is seen primarily through the development of rural areas, the integration of business regions, the development of industrial zones, as well as the increase of the use of new technologies and innovations in business and education. That is why the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development signed a 18m-euro loan contract with the government of the Republic of Serbia for the Rural Network Project and a 1.7m-euro grant contract provided by bilateral donors from the Western Balkans investment framework. These are funds that will allow Serbia to build optical broadband infrastructure in the country's rural regions. In this phase, one will build a broadband infrastructure in 500 rural settlements, then 500 rural schools will be connected to optical access and will be able to access a new generation with a speed of over 100 megabytes per second for about 80,000 surrounding households. Although activities to build broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas began several years earlier, quarantine measures due to the Kovid pandemic – 19 show that the fast internet is crucial to work from home, continuing education, access to medical and financial services, or simply maintaining communication with the outside world. The lack of broadband internet for rural schools has been identified as a growing problem for Serbia before the pandemic. One quarter of all students attend schools in rural areas, and in recent years the growth of enrolment in rural regions has surpassed growth in all other schools. Without adequate infrastructure for fast internet rural schools and their students risk staying behind their peers in urban areas. As I am an educator myself, I find this project extremely important because it will improve education, establish better conditions for teaching and learning, as well as full application of new technologies in the course. Namely, I worked in one of the nine separate primary schools in Brodarevo, all nine in the rural environment, and I am pleased that the level of equipment of information-communication infrastructure in rural schools will be improved, and is currently not satisfactory. The provision of schools with information network in rural areas will significantly improve the quality of teaching and allow for better and more successful implementation of remote teaching. Construction of broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas will allow abandoned rural areas to move towards modern Serbian villages. It is necessary from the village to create an attractive environment for young people, making sure that without good infrastructure, but also digitisation there is no retention of young people in the country. The minimum speed of 100 megabytes per second enables the use of modern Internet technology in each household as well as modern software solutions and Internet applications in the banking sector, e-Government, communication with people etc. Thanks to fast and high-quality Internet communication, the farmer will be able to complete his numerous obligations to the house without losing all day to go to town. This means that without quality broadband, there is no quality life and development in the country. Prepolje municipality is one of nine municipalities that will get a faster internet that will also be stable for eight rural areas, which are Tasevo, Kosetica, Karoševina, Sopotnica, Divci, Ivanja, Zavinoradje and Gornja Babina. This will allow fast internet access to 1,629 households, which will improve telecommunications connections in these environments. Also, fast internet access promotes business growth, expands business potential and improves productivity and competitiveness. This is particularly important for entrepreneurship in rural areas and micro-enterprises, which will access new markets and benefit from e-service. Therefore, SDPS MPs, Rasim Ljajic, will be happy to support the Law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with regard to the project of building broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4270	Thank you, colleague. He has a word, an authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group, MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4271	Thank you, esteemed Vice-President and esteemed Minister, with associates, MPs, ladies and gentlemen. Before us is the proposal for a law on the validation of loans between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This loan envisions the realization of a single project and builds broadband communication infrastructures in our country's rural areas. The loan contract was signed last year, on 30 December 2020, here in Belgrade. The European Bank lends to our state, as the Minister said, 18m euros for this project. The project is also foreseen in this year's budget for 2021 as a single item, a credit item taken from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. With a broadband internet it is possible to transmit data faster and more efficiently. As we have heard, the introduction of such an internet creates conditions for the faster and better development of society, the region in the rural areas of our country, giving the possibility of faster communication, between citizens and the state administration. A lot of it helps broadband in development and in quality medical service. If we look at the economy, in trade, in banking, not to forget the great support in the process of teaching primary, secondary, any age, in those areas, and what is important is that, unfortunately, these classes have been "online" lately. So this online course will be better done, as could be done so far. I hope we don't have an epidemic like this for the next few years, but what's there is, we have to deal with this opportunity. This loan has a special accent on the construction of broadband internet, as I said, in rural environments, in so-called. White zones. So in these areas of our country, it couldn't be built, or it couldn't be built by this fixed broadband internet. So this internet network wasn't built, and with this loan we're going to build infrastructure, as a basis for building an Internet network. As far as the checkpoints are concerned, I'd say they're here as the priority access stations of this project are scheduled for primary school. If there are no elementary schools in these parts, then there must be a building of public institutions, such as libraries, or local communities. So schools or public institutions will be, so-called. access points or access stations where this infrastructure will be built and through these access points the selected operator will build a mini network from house to house and thus spread this internet network. In the first phase, as is said, it is predicted that these access points or access stations are about 500, whether it is a school, whether it is another public institution, means 500 of these cells that will connect about 80,000 households in the area. In phase two, this is supposed to expand. With 500 access stations at 900 access stations, this network will expand to 135,000 households. This project supports the reduction of the digital inequality between the village and the city, the development of the entire society, the economy, medicine, as I said, and making it as high-quality teaching in those areas of our country. With this, hopefully, we're going to reduce the population drain in those parts of our country. To get back to the financial part of this loan. As I said the loan amounts to 18m euros, it is given to 15 years from three years of grace periods. In three years, this infrastructure must be built by the end of 2023. So that's the grace period. The loan is paid in semi-annual wars and the last war is paid at the end of 2035. The loan is given at a variable interest rate, consisting of a six-month euro-trailer as interest rate reference and plus 1% as a fixed rate. For the unused part of the loan, if we don't use the entire loan by 2023, one margin of 0.5% on the rest of the loan is paid to the rest of the loan. As we have heard about the processing of this loan, the State pays a one-time fee of 1% of the total loan and this can be refused from the loan received. So, credit is with favourable conditions and this loan or this loan is used to develop settlements in rural areas and provides full support for development in several segments of society, especially in the development of children, in terms of which they continue better quality or improve as they continue in these rural areas of our country. That is why the SVM parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4272	Thank you. The word has the deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4273	Thank you, Vice President Yevdzic. The Honorable Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all citizens and citizens of Serbia, is today on the agenda of the Parliament Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty, a project to build broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This project loan is one way to realise the digital skills development strategy, the government's priority goals on digitisation and other documents that Serbia is faster integrated into the world of digital societies, as the global need of the 21st century. In your opening statement, Mrs Matic, you have really said a lot of important things that define today's draft law confirming the Treaty of Loans and somewhere I don't think any of us have the dilemma that this should be supported. However, I will consciously deal with the details because I think it is important for the public to say all that is the advantages of this law as much as it is considered impractical, as soon as you hear the loan, somewhere in all citizens you have a bitter taste, but your colleague also talked about the way it will be paid both for the grace period of three years and for how long it has to be realized, so I think everything that's said goes in favor of all this. The rapid development of new technologies conditions the need to use information-communication technologies in all segments of life, so today without the internet, human life is almost unimaginable. It's unimaginable and progress in that sense. The broadband internet is a way of connecting to the Internet that allows high data transmission speeds. The development of broadband networks has a major impact on increasing the quality of everyday life of people and helps to function more efficiently in many areas of life. According to global data, the use of information-communication technologies has increased over 90% in the last five years, and in the future almost all human activities and all jobs will require the use of digital technologies, and thus the possession of digital skills. Serbia is unequivocal as a society, especially when it comes to this intense development and great attention to this issue, taking into account the impact of digitisation on key development objectives, which is, above all, faster economic development, equating regional development and reducing regional differences in the conditions of life between urban and rural environments. We had a chance to hear an appeal this morning when it comes to rural environments and possibly our obligation to meet them as much as possible, and I really think it should be dedicated. Digitalization is important, and we could say, one accelerated step towards achieving these goals. On this development road, Serbia has already achieved significant results in several significant segments. Today, a large number of services in various segments of society are available to citizens through new information technologies that simplifys and speeds up all procedures and procedures. I would mention, as one of the successful steps, the digitisation and unification of 13 different population databases, the unique population register, as well as the introduction of an electronic administration, thus ensuring more efficient functioning of public authorities institutions, thus making it easier and simpler to exercise citizens' rights and somewhere reducing the problem that our country has generally had with bureaucracy in the past period. These examples are just an illustration that confirms the necessity of building a digital society that must be in the course of all events, which quickly comes to the current information, which has the information necessary to make significant decisions at all levels of society, because, here we will all seem to agree, the information necessary condition of development and is not said for nothing that one who owns the information actually owns the main instrument of power. When it comes to the European path of Serbia, we must remind that the development of the Internet is covered by negotiating Chapter 10. – Information society and media, with an increasing development challenge of increasing internet coverage and accessibility and harmonising standards in supplying a large number of users with technical standards of the European Union. The main objectives of the European Union in the field of information and communication technologies, in particular 13 specific objectives relating to digital transformation, are both contained in the European strategy of 2010 and the Digital Agenda of Europe. For Serbia, this negotiating chapter should open up a space for negotiations in further harmonising our legal framework with the EU's legal assets, which we are largely, seems to have already achieved, correct me if I am wrong. Also, digitisation is also a prerequisite for the development of other parts of the public sector, such as eGovernment, eHealth, Electronic Justice, Electronic Education or e-commerce and other services. The digression of the treasure that at this time of the pandemic of the Coronus virus, it seems to me that only now have we realized how important it is to function in this way, how much it changes all of our basic habits that at the moment that we were forced to be a total locdoon, it's a state of emergency. We use these services and I was inspired by the e-commerce, because then we first recognized that we can actually do the app – "Bring" and how to use it and it was our only solution, especially in Belgrade. Smaller environments may have had fewer problems, but Belgrade was really burdened by a serious blockade and I'm afraid we're still this limited and we're in trouble. So, as a candidate for EU membership, we have become part of the Digital Agenda of Europe and is specifically covered by the special digital agenda of the Western Balkans, which the European Commission launched in 2018 at the Digital Assembly held in Sofia. The agenda promotes the main objectives that the Western Balkan countries should achieve. One of these goals that we are talking about today, in a specific way, is just investing in broadband, or in building communication infrastructure to connect to the Internet as many environments and users as possible. So this is the task of realising a project to build broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas. The 18m-euro loan, approved by Serbia by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, will provide a connection of over 500 rural schools, seems to me in its opening presentation of other public institutions, as well as over 80,000 households located in mapped areas. Maybe this is the most important detail to point out. We must say that for rural areas today, other than the basic infrastructure which, of course, facilitates life, is also necessary for this digital connection. The rural environments connected to the Internet have a much smaller sense of isolation and abandonment. It seems to me that it should pay particular attention to this, because the Internet today is the necessary world view, such as a few years ago, 30 or 40, whether to own a television or a fixed phone at some point when it appears, under the circumstances that young people are the most important target group of this project, because we have to admit to ourselves a painful truth, which is that first we want to have a village that is threatened to bring it back to life, to produce food, first of all for the city. In order for all of this to be realized, we must have young people in the country, because the older population has less and less capacity for this type of life in the country. Maybe this is a step more and maybe this is one of the steps that young people will keep in the country, just owning the Internet and mobile phones is the most precious thing for them, because in that sense it will really be connected no matter how far away they are from some major centres, not to talk about Belgrade, but also regional ones. This project is also seen from the aspect of modernising the educational process in rural areas, because they are just covered, as I understand it, by rural schools. A few months ago, we held a discussion in the Assembly about a single loan for the dissemination of information literacy, i.e. digital integration of the school and the acquisition of teaching staff equipment. That's what I mean by supply, if I'm not mistaken, about 50,000 laptops that were necessary. The educational system is the basis for obtaining information literacy, so the necessary condition for achieving this function is precisely the connection of educational institutions to the Internet. We are all witnessing the crucial importance of the uninterrupted process of education at this time of the coronary pandemic virus was just an informative connection. In that sense, schools in urban environments that have the Internet could have followed that online course without any problems. Teachers were able to communicate with students and parents, and it was one adjustment process that, in this way, seemed to me, flowed a little easier. We are infinite, and it must always be mentioned when we talk about the pandemic, grateful to doctors who are dedicated and sacrificed and all the forces struggle for the health of each of us. And I want to thank you, too, except for doctors whose contribution is immeasurable and we really owe them all a great thank you, and all the educators and all the schools, the parents, but we owe special thanks to our children, who have simply adapted. They have successfully overcome all the challenges of online teaching. It has not been lost practically for any hour, it cannot be, I agree completely with my colleague Markovic, it cannot be the same lecture that is online and what is interactive, when students have teachers across the street, but unfortunately, this time dictates its terms. What is certainly commendable is that children have adapted to this new moment, no matter how many victims are the same, precisely because they and through their going to school have this kind of socialization and socialization that they are now in a period of a year and a little bit stronger really have been denied. In education and education generations is our future. Today, with classical knowledge, including history, Serbian language and literature, geography, but also knowledge from natural sciences, new knowledge is needed for the 21st century, these are primarily informational knowledge and digital skills that will allow for the accelerated development of society and integration with a world that is not really far away from the Internet anymore. This is one of the reasons why we need all educational institutions, all schools today to have this fast internet and enable all students, wherever they live, to acquire these information skills, to quickly exchange information and make life easier for them and their families. And finally, according to statistics in Serbia, the internet is missing in about 30% of rural households, while in urban areas there are not around 13% of households. The task of our society on the road to a developed information society is precisely reaching a maximum in internet coverage, as a predecessor to modern development and modern society. Of course, we cannot not mention here that, besides ensuring Internet accessibility, society must also take care of all the risks that Internet use carries with it and that we have had in the past days even in a congregation debate, it seems to me several times, mentioned various abuses of the Internet. Its abuse is visible and unfortunately increasingly present, especially among children, who in particular spend much more time on the Internet at this time, without parental control, because simply circumstances are such that they are not in a position to send it away. They need to be kept from negative phenomena when it comes to the Internet and it's mostly not easy, so before all these trends, which are unfortunately bad and destructive by generation, are somehow the easiest to always accept among those children, it's always the easiest to imply. I fully agree that security on the Internet must be one of the priorities of the information society and once again I appeal to all the social factors and competent authorities to commit themselves more seriously to this problem, but I also appeal to all of us who are mature and adults that by our bad example when it comes to using the Internet and social networks we do not inspire our children. We would have to first take care of what the vocabulary we use, what is the way we communicate, what is the way we address both the general public and each other, in order to reduce this negative influence on children, who rightly copy from us. So, I'm afraid that our basic dissuasion, when I say ours, then I certainly mean one serious minority, but it exists, is a key motivator for having no number of children, and it should be put on the road, if at all, if not otherwise, what at least in the way that we're going to constantly point out to each other that we have to bear responsibility somewhere, first of all because of the fact that we're a public figure and that we're having a good influence on this public discourse that seems to me, long ago, has become a crisis. So, the Internet is a significant part of our trip to Europe and to the world and projects like what we're talking about today, which is building a wide-ranging communication infrastructure for the Internet in rural areas, and I said in the beginning, it's very important and valuable. For all the reasons I spoke about, the SPS parliamentary group will certainly support the law confirming the loan contract for the implementation of this project, in which we are financially supported by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In order not to sound contradictory, this morning I had a parliamentary question which may have been a little bit more severe when it comes to European officials, but this only confirms the fact that we are truly determined that our journey to Europe has no alternative, but that and how we can react to what is one obvious injustice, one obvious, not even a double archin anymore, but a pressure that is hard to resist. Either way, all the laws that are for the benefit of our children and that will improve their lives, the Serbian Parliament will, I'm sure, support and bring, and everything else will be left at the end and court of history, because I'm almost sure the current state leadership can respond to all the pressures, however much they are at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4274	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. Before we continue to work further, one piece of information. We received a notice from Serbia's Radio-Television that today's meeting of the Serbian Parliament will be in direct transmission by 1655 hours due to earlier commitments. There'll be a direct transmission by then. I give the word to the authorised representative of the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic - For our children" to MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4275	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister with Associates, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when we voted on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you remember that one of the priorities put before this government is further development of our economy, and together with the development of the economy is also related to the development of education through the implementation of the "Serbia 2025" programme. Otherwise, as a country, we have seen that in the segment of digitisation and development in the use of information technologies we have gone far away and the benefits of all of this and how they show at this time of the pandemic of the coronary virus, when we prove that we are successfully and thanks to the organization through e-Government fighting against this monster and the organization of the vaccination itself. When we talk about the Internet, the Internet is usually one of the important components in people's lives today. We have seen for ourselves that thanks to the Internet we can also establish good communication with people, exchange information, receive timely information, but also allow for segments of purchase and trade to be transferred to this virtual world and to do business sitting from home or, as we would say, while we are in the chair. So, the benefits of the Internet are large and today when we talk about human rights absolutely that one of the rights to be placed on is also the right to access the Internet, i.e. the right to access information. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been led by current President Aleksandar Vukic, then prime minister, as one of the main goals, put people in Serbia's relationship. It wasn't just about travel infrastructure. As we can see, we've done a lot when it comes to road infrastructure. It was built 320km of highways, the "Serbia 2025" programme also provides for rehabilitation or reconstruction of over 5,000km of roads and we see that our President Vukic is on the ground today and these days, extensively visiting works, so that Serbia is indeed a major construction site. But this also refers to connecting people via the Internet, that is to say, removing those geographical barriers that existed, that is, in this segment that we are talking about - digitization in our country. While, as we can see, this government is making every effort to remove obstacles among people and make life much better for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so this former government and the tycoon regime are making every effort to share people, to expand these barriers among citizens and to expand their hatred in this way. So, for them, we see that there are similar and inappropriate journalists, which we could also see at previous conferences of Dragan Gilas, but also at today's conference where he has again made it clear that he is the only one who seems to be able to say who is a journalist and who is not a journalist in Serbia. In addition, when you have people who fight for truth to come out and show it to citizens they get a variety of threats, then they try their networks to turn out to be very smart, so they put on some prison bars, which is probably characterized as one kind of threat. Then they also threaten people with a haircut, meaning no struggle with arguments again, no effort to make an effort to challenge what is claimed about them, and in fact it's all true, and of course they're trying to spread through the Internet and social networks absolutely the hatred to deal with some politics, as we can see in the case of failed diplomat Vuk Jeremic, and in the previous period we've shown these tweets, they've probably gotten a little bit smart, so now he's shortened his tweets into a word where he just likes to march people who try to make some arguments or their views to point out. Of course, the Internet is used as a maximum to deal with politics, i.e. for mutual justice, which is why who and who are excluded from the parties, and today as we see each other and how well they get along. Otherwise, all of what they do when it comes to the Internet and when it comes to relationships between people and in line with the policy they run, so-called. It's a callimeter of politics. Unlike those who, while in power, only knew about the statistics of their deep pocket where they were trying to benefit themselves and that the citizens were not interested, this government is making every effort to solve the problems of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and all in order for us to live better and be proud of our country, so that this project that we are discussing here today, i.e. specifically about the loan for the realisation of the project, should help those areas of our country's rural areas, i.e. the white zones, comes a fast internet that will allow them to be connected to the world. Otherwise, as the distinguished minister said, this project itself builds broadband communication infrastructures in rural areas is a project supported by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and will work and will be implemented in two phases. We're specifically talking about phase one today, and phase two is planned for the next period. At this stage, as you said, 500 schools will be covered, the accent is placed on raising the quality of education of children in these areas, in the second phase, which will include 900 schools, which will allow for more quality education in schools themselves, about the possibility of children getting high-quality content to successfully master the material, but also the possibility that teachers in these schools can participate in seminars where they will be educated, or further perfected, but also work on the development of numerous projects, and participate in international projects. This is proof that when the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this government say it advocates even regional development, that it really is in action, not just in words, so that that quality of content that children in large cities like Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad have, when it comes to education and the Internet, so will have children in these rural areas. In addition, the idea is not only development and education of schools, but it is the idea for the internet to reach households in this area, so that actually schools will be only hubs, when it comes to accessing the Internet through this broadband communication infrastructure, as the proposal for an agreement here says, will create a neutral infrastructure, where, after that, in the election in the public tender of the provider, it will allow it to further develop this network towards households, so that even those households that were not commercially interested in obtaining this quality and fast internet, will be able to do so in this way. In particular, in the first phase we are talking about 80,000 households, in the second phase we are talking about 135,000 households that will receive, which is clear evidence that we are actually successfully implementing an important segment of the Serbia 20-25 programme in this way. Otherwise, these are the areas in the Republic of Serbia, which have been devastated due to the neglect of previous authorities, whose potentials they did not know to use, but these are the areas which have a really great tourist potential, which also have young people, who unfortunately in previous years, during the yellow regime had to flee to larger cities or other countries, in order to cope with work and thanks to such projects, will be stimulated to stay, because bringing the internet gives a great opportunity to develop a youth enterprise, to deal with the digital economy. Also, the possibilities for these landscapes, or tourism potentials to be promoted much better towards potential guests, and in this way, in fact, these areas are no longer devastated, or no more areas where people will not want to live. This project itself, the first phase we're talking about, will be realized by 2023 and is financially supported by 18m euros, which is very important for the realisation of these objectives we've been talking about, but it's not something we're moving with right now. So, as the minister said, it was done in the previous period and in the analysis of the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, so that the specifically mapped areas called white zones, where this project will be directed, which is another evidence and the seriousness of every project or job this authority has accessed, to be done systematically, to be done objectively. What is very important to say is that thanks to the reforms implemented in the previous period, Serbia today can provide financial resources for such important and large projects on a favourable basis. I would like to mention, for the sake of Serbian citizens, that today, in fact for a few days, the Fitchers rating agency, I would say, when it comes to Serbia's credibility and its credit rating with BB plus, which is proof that we are a country that can be eligible and receive the necessary funding for the realization of such quality projects, while unfortunately in the previous period, during the yellow tycoon, it was not taken into account, it was not taken into account what these loans are being taken, but it was important how money to get there and to put that money in the pocket. As much as President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, including the MPs here, have tried to solve the problems of the citizens and to point out, we always have some on-call critics who are going to criticise themselves to cleanly place and try to distort reality itself, which is nothing unusual, because it's part of their Kalimera policy that they are conducting, where they were just dealing with their own deep pockets, and while they were in office, they were thinking about raising their salaries, giving funds to their close organisations and associations without public calls, they were spending their lives around the world and working to bring money to Serbia's citizens, outside Serbia. As you can see, I am also speaking clearly here about Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, and about their megaphones, and when I talk about the place, absolutely because of the end I come from, which refers to Despot Aleksic from Tristenik. For any problem for us to catch ourselves and do really work on their solution, to improve the quality of life of citizens, they always have their criticisms and answers, yes, we would do it differently, so that we would pay thousands of euros to educators, doctors, and even go to such an extent as to turn some private property into state property, we would be dealing with nationalisation. Simply, a question for them, if they are already so capable and if they have such a good plan, why didn't the plan be realised while they were in power, why during the time they were in power, doctors and educators did not have a thousand-euro salary, but Dragan Gilas boasted that he provided the people in his company with a salary of thousands of euros while he was in power. Then, a particular question of journalists who, of course, did not want to answer, and how you provided a thousand-euro salary to your workers, when people then worked for 15 thousand dinars. It is clear to us, given that in some of his statements he said that people who are waved at function, that they come to these pairs by misusing their functions, and we know what functions he performs. Otherwise, since I'm a natural analyst, I'd do a little analysis, because the rhetoric of their parties is a little left-wing, maybe more, even radical, and they say they'd share that money with all Serbian citizens, so let's reanalyze. If Dragan Gilas shared those six million euros found in a Mauricios account, how many kilometers would we have, or how many broadband infrastructures would we have? It doesn't have to be an account in Mauritius, it can be in Hong Kong, where it's only found once that there are 3.5 million euros, and I'm not going to talk about the other three, where it's estimated to be around 11 million, or if maybe the euro isn't good enough, let's go in Swiss francs. What about the account in Switzerland, where there's about 2.8 million Swiss francs in the account? Imagine what kind of force, when it comes to the Internet, if these assets were invested in the broadband internet and that he invested it when he could? Okay. Maybe I was wrong about the analysis, maybe we shouldn't talk about those means. Let's talk about an interesting project that he did as mayor of Belgrade, which he boasts about, it's a bridge on Ada, which, I'm sure, is a record player when it comes to value. You have up here a view of the bridge in France – “Viduc de Millau” I apologize for my French, is not very good, where 400m euros is price, 2,460m long, 343m high and has seven sawmills. By a mile, then, the price would be about 160m euros, and in Adi where 400m and plusm euros were, and the initial value, I will remind the citizens, was 160m. We still don't know how we got to that 400 plus, but it's about to be worth 0.9km of 400m euros. Now let's take those 160m euros that are estimated to be the real value of the project, i.e. 161, excuse me, how much internet, or infrastructure with 239m euros, we could make in Serbia. That would be a fantastic result. Let's look back perhaps at the failed minister of diplomacy, Vuk Jeremic, who remained remembered in the history of our diplomacy as the person most traveled around the world and where according to the Reviewer Report, he found that he spent 3.7m euros, and the effects of his work are visible. In particular, when we talk about the AP Kosovo and Metohija, we see how much he fought for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia and worked not to recognise the false state of Kosovo. In particular, in 94 countries, he was traveling with 3.7m euros, gardening in hotels, and there were diaries, and these are the effects of his work. These are all the countries that in his time, or time, the Democratic Party recognized so-called. the Republic of Kosovo, i.e. a false state. So let's say some reduction in these costs, that the real costs might be a third, well, the foreign minister, should have traveled, imagine how many miles we might have done with those funds, or how much infrastructure we would have done when it comes to the Internet, not to talk about miles of times. Otherwise, an analysis has already been carried out in public, etc. So when we talk about the Internet, in fact, the only thing they were dealing with was their own interest in allowing their businesses, their friends to be dominant in it, and the state-owned enterprises simply used as a way to arrest party colleagues and absolutely do nothing about the development of the Internet or infrastructure or communication. In particular, some time ago, we had the opportunity to see the effects where SBB in Belgrade set 59km of illegal cables, where it is estimated that the damage done to the City of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia between 3.5m and 5m euros, without talking about the damage done to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia whose currenters have gone up to have these enhancers signalling Internet transmission. There, and these may be some resources that could have been invested in the development of the Internet in this devastated area, in white zones, where even those people deserve to have a 100mV per second internet, that their children can also follow online teaching quality, and even students may study remotely when it comes to foreign universities. Just one question that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia ask, should such people be given a chance to lead this country again? A clear answer is never. Never. They keep saying they have some kind of plan for the day after tomorrow. I mean, honestly, that sounds Hollywood to me when they say "day after tomorrow." In fact, they don't have any plan. It's just some phrases they put on. When you look at it when you're talking from the aspect of the Internet and digital literacy, their websites where they put it clearly are non-precise, non-transparent, that it's piled up, as if, as if, well, the plan was forged maybe at some meeting in Trieste where one played Nitendo, the other one tweeted and then some things came up on the Internet and said -- well, this is a good thing, let's put it in, so it's in our plan. Many things they stood for while in power and never did, or knowingly deceived citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Unlike them and this period that has never returned to the Republic of Serbia, today the Republic of Serbia is a completely different country. The country of champions, where the unemployment rate is below 9%, where we are really the best at attracting foreign direct investment, where we build new highways, we work to protect the environment. We're far away from the digitalization process, we're working on connecting people when we're talking about building this Internet, or communication infrastructure, and that's all the things people know to value and to value, because these are the needs they're looking for. These are the problems they've been giving us and the ones we're dealing with. We see how successful and concrete we are when we talk about vaccination and I am glad that a new dose of Sputnik V vaccine will arrive, which has just been released, and all thanks to the authority and combatability of our President Aleksandr Vukic, who, regardless of what we may be a geographically small country, perhaps in a political sense, are not so strong on that market for fighting, but we have him who has been advocating himself through and through diplomacy, provided the vaccines are provided. We built two hoofs of hospitals, improved the health system, soon came the third Kovid hospital, and I will say that we did the previous two in four months, which has never happened in the history of the Republic of Serbia. So, all I'm saying and this project that we're going to implement and that we're going to support here is absolutely a confirmation that the "Serbia 2025" programme is being implemented successfully and that we're going to implement it in such a way that the average salaries in Serbia are 900 euros, the average pensions of 440 euros, that we're going to have new highways, that we're going to have a new infrastructure, that we're going to have waste water treatment factories, that we're going to have sewers, which is one historic liquid, which even the predecessors couldn't do, and something our citizens deserve a long time ago, and we're going to be able to end it in this mandate. Therefore, in the day to vote, the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, will support the proposal for this Agreement, will support the realisation of the project itself, and certainly the next phase that is expected, because what we stand for is to fight for the future of our children, but a better future for children and people and in these areas of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4276	Thank you. The president of the SPAS parliamentary group Marina Ragush has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4277	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the introduction of a broadband internet, i.e. a broadband network of rural parts of our country, is certainly good news. I don't think there's much too much to explain to the colleagues who used to speak, they mostly gave out all the necessary information. What needs to be said in particular is that it is actually part of a much more serious project that should not only reduce the digital gap that exists between urban and rural areas, but rather set up the infrastructure of rural development, and perhaps in some perspective and what makes SPAS stand for, it is not an unknown, it is a demotropolisation. There is great pressure on Serbia's cities, and, of course, our villages, as we know, remain abandoned, devastated and empty. It's a great idea to start with infrastructure because whenever you talk about plans, the first thing they ask you is what infrastructure is. So these are the paths, this is today in this fourth industrial revolution Internet, which is a stable network, which has fast data flow and information. Why does it matter? We're part of the global community. The labour mobility is higher and faster than ever. What's supposed to work in this world, along with this digital functional literacy, is that you can attract anyone from the outside or convince them to return from the city to the village, provide good, at least minimal civilizational conditions. On today, this minimum of civilizational conditions is a good, strong and stable internet. What is also very important is that this network, in fact, sends a message to telecommunications operators who do not consider it a commercial undertaking to connect settlements with the Internet, villages that do not have a large number of inhabitants. It is precisely this project that will have, as I understand well the co-workers of Ms. Minister and Mrs. Minister, several stages will not only connect to schools, but in the perspective it will be a good start-up infrastructure that may start to work in our rural parts of our beautiful country and that is what we should invest in and what we should insist on and that is why this is a good loan. I know that some economists, people who deal with finance, will say yes, but duty is problematic always, especially when the state is in debt on the international financial market. However, a counter argument can also be that money is never cheaper, that everyone is in debt. Again, on the other hand, we can hear, with the right of course of all those who are well-intentioned and truly sincere patriots, whether this eurybor is a problem because in the perspective it can change, so these interest rates can be some time and some other way, to say financial experts. That's what it's like. Everyone's in charge. This is the moment. It's a good thing we're in charge of making sense, with the variation that we invest in projects that can be the basis for future development. In this fourth industrial revolution for me and our parliamentary group, one of the most meaningful investments today is investment in digital infrastructure. You, Madam Minister, are also Minister of Tourism. One of the non-innocent branches of tourism is certainly health tourism. We've heard today about all the harmful consequences of technology users. Let me give you an example of good use of technology, and what takes a fast and stable Internet over here. Several countries in Europe and the world are already doing serious projects with children with special needs, such as autistic children, such as children with dyslexia problems. Imagine, certain video games, which are commercial video games, which children usually like to play, when they have been processed, have shown that they give extraordinary results to children with special needs, so they went one step further. We managed to get the level of work of the central nervous system in these children during playing these games, not to confuse over-citizens who may not have these technical findings, but it's a spectral analysis, sounds, all of which improves the work of their central nervous system. They went one step further, to keep that level while playing those high-tech games afterwards. So they went one step further and those children, slowly but surely in some perspective they could join society, not stay on the sidelines of society. Autistic children in not a small percentage showed an extraordinary ability to cope with high-tech technologies and socialize with groups that do not have that kind of, conditionally speaking, problems. This problem is over, because we rarely think about numbers, statistics, forget to think about the quality of life, especially those families, for example. What, for example, will these autistic children or children who have other special needs, who receive, for example, financial support from our country, do when their parents die? Who's gonna take care of them? Do they still receive those funds? How are they gonna use them? They have special needs. Now, that's where I see the possibility of developing not only our economy, but the development of the overall quality of life and the good use of technology. So technology shouldn't be afraid. She carries many challenges with her. Will many of the occupations that exist today be worthless? Well, I'll tell you plainly, two-thirds will. You can throw those diplomas in the trash can. But there will be other occupations. The responsible state takes care of it in time. Could the use of technology attract predators? Well, yeah, because they're around us. They're just using new funds. The responsible state can protect it, any Internet user. In what way? You know how, we've defined ourselves to go to the EU and, here, we've been going since the 1960s. It used to be called a community, now it's called the Union. It's a long way to Europe, but it's great to apply those standards. The strongest narrative in the field of digitisation today in the territory of the EU's most developed countries of the bloc is digital sovereignty and sovereignty over data. What does that mean? It goes to that extent and Mrs. Minister knows it very well, she's a minister and a store, you have big IT giant foreign profits in your space, but they also steal your data because every time you click something of interest on the network, they use it to stuff you with commercials, and all that data sells to companies that earn from you. What's Europe doing? Europe said no. Our data, Europeans, cannot go to third countries and third countries, is primarily thought of by the greatest possible giants, from America, China, etc., who work on our territory must respect our laws. I believe that you think about it and that in the perspective, I am more than sure, that this comes to the agenda – data protection, the motivation of our companies to do the same jobs as those international companies. Why wouldn't there be Serbian platforms, Serbian networks, instead of Facebook, Instagram or any other network? For Twitter, I wouldn't worry, Twitter uses 15.4% of citizens, I'll tell you right away. Three hundred thousand warrants are inactive, and tens of thousands are forged, nonexistent warrants. Not to mention what those warrants are called. So, these people who think they're spreading hate on Twitter live in virtual reality because 15.4% of people just follow Twitter. The problems are different. What's the point? The point is to follow the example of the EU to which we are going. We have our own laws here, we have our own Constitution. The Constitution does not know or recognize a private and public personality, but a person and every person has the right to his physical integrity, to his psychic integrity, to his dignity. We can't because we're in public to be exposed to barbaric fire from all sides. Why? Like that. So he's here on a state exam to protect each individual and protect his constitutionally guaranteed rights. Now I'm going to give you an example. A certain politician in Ireland was exposed to such sexist attacks on social networks that she folded a tabak, sued a company that provided a platform for the social network, got the procedure, and what was the next step? The company had to delete everything where her name was placed in that misogenous context, with all the metadata. It is called the right to forget, because no one has rights, although Twitter will tell you, when you complain, that it is in line with his policy. Well, it doesn't comply with our laws. This is what SPAS and I, as head of the Digitalisation and Digital Technology Sub-Committee, expect in perspective – complete digital sovereignty and complete data protection. I'll give you another example, too, mirrored from EU territory. Do you know that anyone who has any means of communication using the Internet can ask a provider to check who got on his phone, on the Internet, on an e-mail or any other warrant he has, because that's also an attempt to steal data. So this is a very, very sensitive and serious area, and so that we don't think about it in these ways, especially in the infrastructure-related areas, who's responsible for the data that's going to go through that network, we know that RATEL has this jurisdiction, who's responsible for the security of that data. Today you don't even have to physically be close to someone's computer, but it's enough to attach to the cable and have the flow of all data, to individuals, to businesses, to the state. There's another example, but now on the other hand, a positive example from the big world, but not so far away, good use of technology, and it's something I'd like Mrs. Minister to think about. That's the use of a 3D printer. This is, by the way, a market that's quite developing around the world, and I'm going to give you a useful example. It's Austin from Texas. That's where they came up with the idea of making a small settlement for people who had lost their roof over their heads. That printer that uses, of course, modern technology can build a good part of that settlement in two days. It's about affordable houses. They also create shelters after natural disasters, shelters for abandoned animals. So, in a few days, you're getting a settlement. The next step was that, after the homeless got a roof over their heads in this neoliberal system that fell, only nobody told them it was over, an increasing number of people were left without a roof over their heads, because they understand, of course, that one of the essential needs of every man to verify his work, they made a good infrastructure, a good Internet network, trained them, and included them in programs that they could earn for themselves at the beginning, and then also to make families. Now I'm going back to the beginning. The project is "Community first" or community first. People have understood how they can use modern technologies to restore traditional values. Look, I'm talking about Texas. So such examples are countless. Let's not go any further, another positive example. We all know the great difference between the developed north and the undeveloped south. Italy -- it designed to sell houses for one euro in southern Italy. The condition was to invest around 20,000 euros in a few years, place that house in a normal state, you're tax-free, you can live and work. It was a call for digital nomads. That's how they revived the undeveloped south. Not to talk about when the crown happened, that everyone from the highly developed north was going to run to that undeveloped south they didn't want to invest in, but that's another topic now. So there are a few ways that we in the perspective of all of what we are currently taking as a loan, because it's time, money is cheap, we can quickly return and reduce the gap, raise the village, be competitive, describe the children digitally without neglecting the educational function. I am fully convinced, this is how you look at these projects, plans, programs, especially in the field of digitization, that it's going in the right direction. What we need to do in particular is to make sure that technology doesn't shape us, that technology doesn't get through what we don't want and doesn't take away our economy and our development, it doesn't take away our lives, so we just need to think wisely, and above all, what's really important is that every citizen in this country has a sense of security and security. For this very reason, our Digital Technology Subcommittee plans to organise the following public hearing at the Data Centre in Kragujevac in the last week of April. That's the second order that will concern information security and data protection. What's our goal? Our goal is to reach every citizen and bring this revolution closer in the most efficient and reasonable way possible. I'll just end up with one fact. When Ipsos worked research for 2019, and in 2020 they published data, you know what the answers were when people answered the question – what do they use from digital technologies? Most of them said they use "WhatsApp", "Viber", "Signal", but they don't use the Internet. No one could understand the answer the subjects gave. How is it possible that someone is using all these applications without being aware that this application can be used via the Internet? There we are now. So it is our job to bring digital technologies closer together in the best possible way, I end soon, thank you for your patience, to tell people what challenges are and that the state behind them, and we especially as legislators, are considering all possible aspects to improve the quality of life of all Serbian citizens. Thank you, Madam Chairman, for your patience. Excuse me for a minute of overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4278	I would like to thank the president of the SPAS parliamentary group. I've had a very interesting discussion that I've been listening to, very professionally. Since the mandated representatives of the parliamentary groups are no longer registered in the system, we are moving on to the list of speakers by application for a word. The first is the National MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4279	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. As you have had the opportunity to hear, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party are pleased with this bill. Many times in the previous term, we talked about similar topics about the importance of investment in rural areas, and this is particularly important when it comes to those environments that still have school children, who still have living schools, because they are in rural areas, populated areas, villages, schools and main social operators. Schools are the symbols of the state and schools are the headquarters of the gathering in every sense of the word. That is why we look forward to this bill and we are pleased to hear that by 2025 all schools will be covered by this project and are moving with 500 schools. I'd like to ask the Minister if it's already identified which 500 schools will be covered by this first project? I'm saying this because this is a very good opportunity for us to take advantage of this opportunity in many populated rural areas to restore what needs to be restored around schools. We have areas, we have spoken here, let's say OS "Paljevo" at Tutina and many other schools that are unable to accept, simply, this kind of project for the reasons that they are devastated objects. So I'm using the opportunity to invite the Ministry of Education to engage additionally so that we can get all those schools that are unfortunately in rural areas devastated, like this school that we've mentioned many times in the rainy Paljevo, which has no wet knots. There are many such schools in rural areas, so to provide them, let's make one breakthrough to put these facilities in a position to be as equal as possible to all other educational institutions in the Republic of Serbia. Why does it matter? So that, besides the Internet, our children have normal conditions of going and gaining knowledge in these schools and that these schools are, as they are, mirrored by our country as I said at the very beginning, because they are the only state institutions in these areas and we should not allow our children to go to 21st century today, in the second, third decade of schooling in schools where they don't have wet knots, where they sneez the roofs, and there really are such schools, especially in these rural areas. So I think it's a good prerequisite to do it before we start with this, a very necessary and necessary project to bring the Internet into each of these schools. We simply have to have preconditions to bring it in. that we have objects that are able to receive that kind of installation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4280	Thank you. Minister Tatjana Matic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4281	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable People's MP, at this point are not certain schools, but it will be schools that are covered through settlements, actually schools that are located in areas covered by a public invitation. I have already noted that in April we will practically have completed all 555 settlements, which will be covered in the first phase and then we will actually know together with the Ministry of Education which are schools. At this point, it's not yet specified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4282	I thank the minister. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4283	If I can then appeal to both you and the Ministry of Education to start really from the most endangered areas, from the high rural areas, from the mountainous areas, because these are the most vulnerable areas where any progress is necessary in this matter, which are, say, high-level like the Cave and the Pope of Golia and like any other mountainous area, where it is necessary to invest that we at least keep that little student left in those schools and that there is hope for their stay in those areas, in those areas. Believe me, there's a school like this one we mentioned, which is sneezing the roof, which has no basic conditions to gain knowledge and any normal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4284	Thank you. The Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4285	I thank the chairman. Your Honour, let me just point out one more time. The basic criterion and the basic reason for such a project was just to focus on the most rural areas in the Republic of Serbia. So, as I noted in the opening statement, we were just focusing on those areas where there was no commercial interest of mobile operators to develop broadband infrastructure that implies not only the Internet, but we also said television, fixed phone, etc. So, yes, it is the most rural areas in the Republic of Serbia. It was a criteria for selecting these first 600 settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4286	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4287	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the most important topic of today's debate and the important news is that around 600 rural settlements will be built a broadband communication infrastructure, as well as a connection of 90,000 households and 500 schools in rural areas. What does that really mean? The Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications conducted an analysis of the existing state of availability for broadband, as well as a study proposing different models of incentives and construction. In co-operation with electronic communications operators, availability maps were developed and it was concluded that there are about half a million households in rural areas where there is no economic interest, an infrastructure development operator. Such capital incentives are more important in order to enable the country to develop evenly. The aim of the project is certainly to significantly improve services, capacities, speeds, and, in favour of consumers, to provide efficient access to other operators, to the subsidized network, to avoid the dominant position and most importantly, to improve communication infrastructure through the construction of rural areas, where it is not available at all, to connect public institutions and, above all, schools next to households. Today when we talk about literacy, we also need to talk about digital literacy. How important she is we see especially now at the time of this online schooling. Digital literacy should in no way be identified with computer literacy, because digital literacy actually represents the ability to communicate in a specific technological way, the ability to learn, the safe use of Internet content, as well as mature and responsible Internet access, through the awareness that we leave a lasting trail in this digital world. For this reason, the development of digital skills is a very responsible task and teachers, and above all, the Ministry of Education for education and a completely different approach to education that is intertwined with the development of digital literacy and is actually a school of the future. What are we talking about right now? It is precisely because the Internet has become the most important means of communication, communication, and information and learning. Without the internet today, it is almost impossible to imagine functioning, whether it is business communication or daily. We are witnessing that different content is also available on the Internet and that is inappropriate. False news no matter what, and if any news is false and if the source that is placed is credible, it can only be estimated by an enlightened person. That is why it is also the obligation of all of us who perform public functions to appeal and constantly ask the community to work on education. We can't influence each individual's choice of what to watch, what to read, what to listen to music, but we can demand that the educational content shows be primary, so I can say both intrusive. The question we should constantly ask is what we feed our children's spirit and mind, because a strong state can only be one that has a healthy society and a healthy nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4288	I thank the MP Daniela Veljovic. The word has a folk MP, Zagorka Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4289	Respected vice-presidents, a respected minister, respected counterparts, will support the adoption of legislation confirming the loan agreement for a project to build broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas, signed between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is important for citizens to know that this project is planned to be implemented fully by the end of 2023 and that the final goal will be to around 900 schools, i.e. public institutions and ultimately 135,000 households become users of broadband internet. I would also mention the grant agreement, which Serbia recently signed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, worth 1.7m euros, which will ensure the development of project technical documentation for the project. The project of people living in rural areas of our country will primarily facilitate the communication aspect of life, but the benefits will first be visible in the younger population, more specifically school children. Unique Serbia is questioning the position of Serbian village residents as one of the central issues of our society. We believe that the issue of education and socialization of children living and educated in rural areas is an essential issue of the survival of these environments. When we look at some general insights that give a picture of rural schools in Serbia today, we cannot say that these data are encouraging. A small number of rural children are included in preschool education in general, the number of elementary school exits has been reduced and there has also been a marked and significant showering of children in higher grade primary schools. The problems of teaching in these areas are numerous and this is not about the lack of professional staff, because we will all agree that being a village teacher or teacher today is really enthusiasm. The problems are, above all, in the absence of adequate modern means of work. As a member of the Assembly Committee on the Rights of the Child, in November of the month, I had the opportunity to attend an online conference of child rights at the age of hoofs. Members of the Assembly's Committee on the Rights of the Child had the opportunity to hear what the students of Serbian secondary schools had to do with this new online teaching model and it was a really wide topic, but students from all over Serbia agreed in one – they drew attention to the lack of technical literacy of teachers and teachers. Of course, not everyone. They themselves say there are always exceptions, but the fact is that this is also a problem in urban areas, so in areas that have no problems with the Internet. The introduction of a broadband communications network will be a particular challenge and will not only improve teaching in rural areas, but also financially relieve parents who had to buy a set of internet from operators for their students. We believe this is a big and important step in modernising Serbian rural areas. For the Single Serbia, the development of the Serbian village is a priority and for every project aimed at improving the lives of people living in rural areas, the Serbian government will have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4290	Thank you. The word has the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4291	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have said many times in parliament that the greatest tragedy of a society is to lose its sense of recognition of priorities and lose its sense of real values. Unfortunately, critics whom a young colleague spoke of did not lose the sense of knowing priorities and not losing their sense of real values. Many times, it has shown, as it will show, I am fully convinced, and in a period ahead of us, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has through exposures and through six key points, principles and principles based on which the Government of the Republic of Serbia was formed and established, recognised the real priorities. One of those priorities is exactly what we're talking about today. For a little while, my colleague Marina mentioned her assignment. We're in charge. That's right. We are in debt, but there should be a difference between debt for salaries and pensions and borrowings that should enable development and give certain positive effects when it comes to GDP growth. Serbia has more development and not consumer loans. And that's the essence these critics don't understand. So it's true, we're in debt, we're investing in road infrastructure, we're talking about digital infrastructure today, but, sorry, it's investment in the future, it's investing in Serbia's future. And I don't see why anyone would be against it? We have a budget deficit and it is not disputed, but the budget deficit is controlled, the budget deficit is not expensive, the budget deficit did not arise because the president of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia led a poor fiscal policy, but because of the crown. But I'm saying, it's controlled and it's moving right into the parameters that are defined. Public debt relative to GDP is below 60%, which tells us that despite the difficult situation, we achieve good results. The government of the Republic of Serbia achieves good results, good economic indicators, which again means that it can better and more and always needs to raise the scale, because it is good for Serbia's future. This is a controlled deficit, and we are sure that the Socialist Party's parliamentary group of Serbia's Socialist Party is confident that it will enable the implementation of that goal in perspective, which is "Serbia 20-25" or 2025th average salary in Serbia 900 euros, and the average pension in Serbia is 450 euros. I needed to say this at the very beginning before I started talking about a specific topic because it was about borrowing, so we could just deny critics in this way. So, this loan is by nature, as I said, investment, development and should allow for the digitisation of rural areas in Serbia that have so far not been covered by communication infrastructure projects, which is a condition for reducing regional differences and reducing the difference between the village and the city in conditions primarily electronic communications. Strategicly observed digitisation, which we fully agree on, is a necessary condition for both the social and economic development of a modern society, the condition of global integration, and without the high representation of the broadband internet today is impossible to imagine not only the rapid exchange of information but the development of new interests and new branches of human activity, the economy at all, so that it can be said that the Internet has a significant impact on the increase, as I said, of GDP, but the Internet also affects employment. Therefore, the suppression of the digital gap between urban and rural areas is of crucial importance for balanced regional development. What is important is to point out that Serbia is as a candidate country for EU membership, but also as a Western Balkan country, which is seen from the EU's point of view as being integratedly covered by the Digital Agenda for the Western Balkans, launched by the European Commission at the Digital Assembly in Sofia on 25 June 2018. The objective of this agenda is to support the transition of the entire region by speeding up the creation of digital society, thereby achieving the well-being of the digital transformation of the economic sector, such as faster economic growth, more employees and certainly better services. Initiating the agenda, the European Commission, together with the resolute ministers of all Western Balkan countries, agreed on key objectives and actions. One of these objectives is to invest in broadband because electronic communications, i.e. internet connections, are a prerequisite for any market development, above all, that cannot be imagined today without a rapid flow or exchange of information. This agenda is financially supported by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development through loan approval, so that the loan approved by Serbia can be considered part of the Western Balkans Agenda. When it comes to Serbia, the predecessor of this loan project, which we are talking about today, we can consider a donation from the European Bank to rebuild and develop 1.7m euros. The agreement on this donation aimed at the project's right-hand broadband internet in rural areas in Serbia was signed on 27 January, which was already said and is intended for the preparation of project documentation. We can say that there were certain symbols in the date of signing this grant agreement, signed right on the Holy Sava, and that is the school's fame, when we know that this project will primarily cover schools in rural areas, which will be able, as well as their peers in urban areas, to participate primarily in "online" continue. This also applies to educational workers in many rural areas, who were unable to provide electronic communication with children due to lack of internet, or to provide remote teaching, which was a serious problem. In this sense, the loan for the project, which envisions 18m euros in funding, represents a kind of continuation of the project, which will build the necessary communication infrastructure for broadband internet in rural Serbia. Otherwise, the goal of this project is that two-thirds of households in Serbia who do not now have a broadband internet are covered by it. According to the 2020 data, in Serbia, 80.8% of households have a broadband internet connection, making up an increase of 1.2% compared to 2019 and 8.3% compared to 2018. The representation of this type of internet connection is the largest in Belgrade, at 93.9%, in Vojvodina 74.7%, Šumadija and Western Serbia, say 77.5%, etc. When it comes to urban settlements, it is 87%, while only 70.1% of rural Serbian households are connected to fiscal broadband networks. So, thanks above all to this project, so what we are talking about today, the digitalisation project, which is supported by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Bilateral Donors, within the framework of the Western Balkans investment framework, about 80,000 households and 500 schools and public institutions across Serbia, will gain access to fast broadband. The broadband internet connection enables not only fast Internet access, but it changes the overall way the Internet is used, as it allows the download of the necessary and requested information from the Internet in a much faster way. Also, the development of broadband networks also affects the increase in the quality of everyday life of people, and helps to function more efficiently in many areas. The pandemic caused by the coronary virus in 2020 has shown that the fast internet is crucial to work from home, access to administrative, financial, medical, and other services, but also its special role has been expressed in education. The Internet was almost crucial to the smooth conduct of the education process. The “online” course met the entire education system. Therefore, it was not “online” teaching only for urban environments, but for this distance teaching method were directed and students from all over the country, from smaller cities, but also from more remote, poorer environments, in which the internet is very slow or it is unfortunately not even there. Systemic support for the digitisation of formal education in all environments will contribute and develop IT personnel, as well as the strategic objective defined in the IT Industry Development Strategy. It must be done, of course, to improve telecommunications infrastructure and introduce the internet into every village, into every village school, because our Strategy for the Development of Villages and Investments in Agricultural Production implies creating better conditions for living in the country, which is exactly what we do and do. So, not only for older generations, but also for younger generations who today, without electronic communications, without mobile phones, without Internet, do not consider themselves to have a quality social life and the availability of the necessary information for life and work. This project confirms the determination of the government of the Republic of Serbia that all citizens who have been free of the internet or in some way have been released will have access to the Internet, which is particularly true for students in rural areas. The country's plan is that by 2025, with a wide programme of incentives to build broadband infrastructure in rural areas, no household in Serbia will be without access to a fixed broadband internet. This government has put the topic of information technologies and digitisation at the very top of its priorities. The Serbian government recognised the importance of digitisation for the overall economic and social process and progress above all. Digital technologies bring revolution in the way we learn, work and live as individuals, but also as a whole society. In this respect, a higher investment rate is also planned in this sector. At this point, according to data from the investment rate in the IT sector in Serbia, the population is slightly above 80 euros, and the planned growth trend by 2025 is 150 euros per capita. So, the plan is to speed up, almost doubled growth, which is very positive. Speaking of the government's development priorities, Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic stressed that one of the priorities would be to support the development of villages and agriculture. According to her, greater investment in knowledge, the science for application in agricultural production, which includes, of course, digitalisation and the spread of the Internet to keep young people in the country, as it makes it difficult for the rural population to access modern and quality educational services also one of the serious conditions of migration of young people with rural areas or urban areas. Last March, a Digital Skills Development Strategy was adopted for the period from 2020 to 2024, which aims to improve the digital knowledge and skills of all citizens, including members of sensitive social groups. The specific objectives are, in particular, to highlight the improvement of digital competences in the education system, the improvement of basic and advanced digital skills for all citizens, the development of digital skills in relation to labour market needs, as well as lifelong learning of IT experts. So we can say that the digitisation of rural areas of Serbia is an important part of this strategy and one of its objectives, to say the key objectives. Of course, this proposal, which we are talking about today, will have the support of the SPS parliamentary group, also spoke of by counterpart Paunovic. I rarely abuse a congregation pay phone. A little while ago, my colleague encouraged me, and I hope you don't get mad, that there are always critics. I have no doubt there will be critics when we talk about this issue, but it is clear what the aim of these critics is, the destabilising of Serbia. They have no other goal, and that goal is trying to realise through one kind of first of all, pressure, by, say, European parliamentarians or to impose editorial policy in the media, and then threaten all of this again with some kind of street. It's like someone's afraid of that street. We weren't afraid of them in 2000, do they think we're scared of them today, in 2021? That continuity of attack continues. I'm glad, last week I spoke in parliament, and I talked about how an NGO attacked and in a negative context talked about fellow parliamentarians. Regardless of what we are from different parliamentary groups, it is about Mr Martinovic, Mr Bakarec, I told you what the SPS parliamentary group's position is. It doesn't matter who belongs to which political party, we have one goal, which we want to realize together, and that's what's defined in the exposé of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Our second goal is to protect the institutions of the system, to protect the Assembly as the highest body of the legislative authority. That others don't respect, let them think, they didn't respect her even while they were in this House, let alone now. Unfortunately for them, re-entering parliament is a plus-squamperfect for them. It won't happen anymore, I'm sure of it, it won't happen again. But they certainly don't stop with the criticism. Now, the question is, how does it get so nervous? What's with all the anxiety, where's all the hysteria coming from right now? We talked about it here when the president clearly, the president of Serbia, made it clear -- one of six key principles and the principle is the fight against organised crime and corruption, and said that what happened behind us was a serious blow to organised crime in Serbia. When we adopted the Law on the Origin of Property in Parliament, it was only then that they showed nervousness. So why are you nervous if you're not hiding anything? Where, if the president said -- here, I'll be the first subject of verification? If we were MPs, well, here we are, too. You've been checking us out, but there's no problem, we want to be the subject again. Where did you get that anxiety? It bothers you that Serbia is a regulated legal state in which the institutions of the system will function. That bothers you, that this factory affair, recycling, extracting some of the affairs that had a court epilogue long ago. What's the point of all this? The goal of all of this is to cover up the truth, because we can't get to the truth. One day, that is, the subject of the attack is the President of the Republic, yesterday it was the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and they wanted to act funny with a statement. They didn't seem funny, they seemed tragic to us. If they wanted to scare us, we were so scared. One thing is very important here. Gentlemen, come before the citizens of Serbia and tell the truth. A little while ago, a colleague was saying, "If you set up a press conference, let the press ask you a question." That's what everyone does, starts from president to every MP, to every MP's group. It's cultural, it's politically correct, not to play some kind of political monologue, because then why the purpose of such a press conference? Why did you schedule it? Is this the modern democratic society you stand for? Is this the freedom of the media you're trying to impose on us through pressure through European parliamentarians? It won't work. Freedom of opinion, freedom of speech and freedom of expression are the main postulates of a democratic society as Serbia is and Serbia will be in the coming period. We will make that very clear, we do not have a problem, we will also make it very clear to the European Parliamentarians. It was their, among other things, findings. What's the matter with Mr. Gilas? Alexander Wolfie? Yesterday, Hansel Dacic? There'll be someone else tomorrow. You know why? Because he doesn't have the guts, so to speak, to go on a polygraph and answer only two key questions. Mr. Gilas, do you have bills in Hong Kong and Mauritius? Is there that much money in those accounts? What's the fear if you know you're right? Don't just look at that play and that directing again and use tears and unfortunately children for political marketing to make political points, try to make sacrifices of yourself and try to find someone in Serbia who feels like a victim. You've made a mistake, both time and place. This is no longer Serbia when you could transfer that money, and I want to believe that journalists who wrote about it are encouraged by good information and that the competent authorities and competent institutions will respond in the right way. It will certainly support the SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4292	I thank the president of the SPS parliamentary group. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and five minutes. The next is National MP Nemanja Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4294	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, honourable fellow MPs, on the agenda of today's session is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which will finance the construction of broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas. This project consists of two parts. The first part relates to the design and construction of a broadband network up to 500 rural schools, while the second part of the project refers to the construction of a broadband network from rural schools as access points to 80,000 households in rural areas across the Republic of Serbia. The goal of this project is to secure the fast internet to as many rural settlements as possible, which will increase the quality of life in these environments. Also, the introduction of this system will allow for faster development of rural areas in Serbia, further development of industrial areas, but also better integration of economic regions. Realisation of this project will also facilitate communication between the state and citizens, trade and payment from remote places, as well as improve the learning process. It is precisely special attention to this project to secure fast internet in rural schools, to significantly improve the quality of teaching, the efficiency of learning, but also to enable the realization of remote teaching. Realisation of this project will give every student, regardless of what part of the country lives and goes to school, access to fast internet, digital education, as well as a new form of social inclusion that is very important for young people. Our goal is to give our children, children of Serbia, equal conditions for education, because it is just investment in our children- investment in Serbia's future. Also, this project prevents migration to large urban areas, i.e. to enable residents to remain in rural areas, while at the same time encouraging positive migration to rural areas. It will also provide a solution to the problem of digital inequality between urban and rural environments, create new development points in underdeveloped areas and create an opportunity to operate even on conditions of crisis, such as this caused by the coronary pandemic of the virus. Widespread internet access will strengthen and economic and social development of these environments by providing not only public and educational institutions, hospitals, business entities, but also households, newly opened companies, as well as an increasing population of remote workers. I must point out that this project is one of the 12 infrastructure projects Serbia has proposed under the Western Balkans Economic Investment Plan. Just investing in the digital future is one of the priorities of this European Union plan, which put a special emphasis on education, entrepreneurship, health, energy, research, innovation, smart growth, as well as investment in a broadband network. It should also be noted that this project is part of a wider initiative, i.e. the first of two phases and that broadband infrastructure up to 900 schools and up to 135,000 households will be built in the next phase, which is very important for citizens to know. Because investment in infrastructure development, regardless of whether it is telecommunications or travel infrastructure, is the key to further economic development of our country, which is also one of the priorities of this Serbian government. But this project has a broader meaning. He shows that Alexander Vukic and the SNS care about every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what part of the country they live in. We care about every city, every municipality, every village, every local community and every man in the Republic of Serbia, while Dragan Gilasu only cared about the millions of euros he took from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and tried to hide in Switzerland, through Mauritius, to Hong Kong. And it's a little bit like that. He's very little that he's already taken 619m euros from the citizens, so now he's trying to get back to power in every way, so he can pick up where he left off. The only problem on the road is for Serbian citizens who will never vote for him and his former regime frauds again. The citizens of Serbia saw very well what the fight for the state and the people looked like in practice. It is only a struggle for their personal interest, for millions of euros that have been placed in their pockets and countless properties they cannot count anymore, while hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens have left on the street and out of work. That is why Serbian citizens will never give them their vote again, as the vote for Dragan Gilas and his former regime associates is an exclusive vote for the rebuking of the state register and their personal wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4295	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4296	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, I was selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and in the Assembly I represent the United Peasant Party, whose president I am. I will talk about problems and always vote in favour of bill proposals concerning all of us living in Serbia's territory. This law and this agreement that we are now talking about is something very important for our rural population, for our rural areas, for areas with difficult living conditions where there must be more investment, where there must be direct investment, this is a positive thing. I've spoken to these operators several times, now it's "Certain Phone", whether it's "Telenor", whether it's a VIP or another, and I've talked to them, and I've asked them to provide network coverage within their capabilities in some rural areas that are on the road to the Old Mountain, which is just across Svrlig. We also have rural areas and needs. I now expect that we will have the opportunity to cover such an area, because the intensity and desire of you and the Ministry and our Government and all of us in every village is to provide that internet in every moment so that our people, young and old, can be educated, that they can see some innovations and for me as a man who comes from such a municipality, who is beautiful, I say the most beautiful community, but there is a need to invest much more in such municipalities. It's not just Svrlig, there are other municipalities that are mountainous and mountainous areas, demographically one of the most endangered, and we have areas in villages where there are children. It's because of these children that we have to provide what you're potential for right now. I'm sure I'll vote for this, and I'll always speak highly of such things. With the good news that in some future period we have the opportunity to use your function as a minister and trade for something that is positive, which is to ensure better placement of our products from our fields, let's say the purchase of milk, and stuff like that. These are the things that are important to our peasants, that on the Internet, for example, they can provide a good, high-quality cheese, white man or something else that goes through the Old Mountain and a large number of tourists from all over Serbia, here from Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotica. These people are all going through Nis, they're coming to our community, and that's a really big need. It would be good to find a way to make this coverage maximum, and on the other hand to provide other than the Internet, other basic conditions for life and our children, those people who remain in those areas. I will, as I have so far, potentiate on such things. Now, for the first time, we have one Ministry of the Village where we expect that there will be an opportunity for some things to change, with what I've always said and say again – someone else's arm doesn't scratch. It would be good for all those who run certain ministries, who run certain sectors, to feel the problems of our peasants, that martyr of ours, that host who protected, fed and defended the country. Once again, I wish that in these areas and municipalities where I come from, we could provide internet coverage for our children, and the possibility of providing a placement of our agricultural producers' products for those who come from other parts, so through the Srljiga they go to the Old Mountain, it is a resort, a ski resort, something beautiful in Serbia. Once again, I, as an MP of the United Peasants' Party, will support this agreement, because I think this is a need, this is a start, but surely we will have to invest much more in areas such as Srvljig, Bela Palanka, Babusnica, Gajin Han and a large number of such municipalities in southeastern Serbia, and the same goes for Prepolje, for Tutin, this also applies to Subotica, for all places it takes the same life, the same possibility, and we can only do so when we make laws, and these laws apply and make more investment in such areas. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4297	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4298	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, a respected minister with associates, if we had heard a sentence twenty years ago that speaks of easier communication between people, we would all think it was quality roads or bridges, but today when we hear that part of the sentence that speaks of easier communication, most of us think of the fast internet. However, when we talk about rural rural areas, many today still think about roads where asphaltes remain certain infrastructure facilities and their unattainable goal. Since today we are talking about a loan agreement of 18m euros from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we are coming to some conclusions on the broadband internet in rural areas. In fact, when you take a loan or a loan, you expect it to be worth it, or that it pays itself over a number of years. Secondly, we need to know that mostly the old population lives in rural areas and that these villages are gradually shutting down and the question arises – is the fundamental need of society a broadband internet in rural areas? We in Unity Serbia consider this government project justified and in the day to vote, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support this proposal. Why? First of all, it is true that in rural areas predominantly old population prevails, but for a child living and such environments we need to fight and allow those children to have at least approximate conditions like urban children. Schools in those environments, i.e. their outcast departments are often with one to several children who have the right to a better education and access to information offered by the Internet. The support of new technologies, innovation through digitisation results, not in the long run, but immediately because modern technologies pervade all the pores of society, and it is one of the elements that contributes to supporting one such project from the Single Serbia, because any loan or loan to take, and it immediately gives positive results is more than cost-effective. Realisation of such a project so far has not been possible without State intervention, as such projects are not commercially cost-effective. Operators are not paid to invest funds in such areas. When you have an internet in these environments that we're talking about, a return of young people to the country, but coming into such an environment would be a relief. So, with the kind of step we're making today, we have a good starting base in addition to these positive things and to slow down population migration or even in the opposite process. This base can be upgraded by rural tourism, because the XXI century only on paper, the century of the need for a healthy environment, would already be realised in this direct way. In order for all of this to come to life, we must also deal with infrastructure to those environments. Since I come from southern Serbia, this is especially good news for Jablanski and Pcinj County, because we are rich in rural areas, and the implementation of such a project will also allow balanced regional development. At least 20% of the village belongs to one of the categories of rural areas in southern Serbia, and for example, in Leskovac we have 144 settlements, in length of 50 and 40km wide, and by that number we are the most dissociated in Serbia. When I said earlier that many rural villages do not have adequate infrastructure, the conclusion is imposed itself, because of so much dissociation local self-government is not able to solve problems on its own and it is necessary for the state to come to aid just as it is now. Somewhere local self-government has solved these problems alone, for more than a decade we from Jablanic and Pcinj County, but other parts of Serbia have led our citizens thanks to the President of Unity Serbia, Dragan Markovic Palmi, on trips to Jagodina, to see how 52 villages have been arranged, with full infrastructure. It's a good example of what a village in the 20th century should look like. Why does all this matter? First of all, the ultimate goal should be to reduce population migration and to allow the rural population to remain on family fires. It would strengthen families and restore tradition. In addition to what I said, to realize this goal is necessary, and you have well noticed that new development points are being created in undeveloped areas. They'd be a barrier to everything we've been facing for decades. In order to make it more clear what I'm talking about, I'm going to give a concrete example and I'm going to end it. The Leskovac was once made up of 17 municipalities. Today they are larger rural areas or populated towns of the city type. One of them is the Wolf, and the other is the Grub and these are the barriers I was talking about. The center of the events of all village towns gravitating around Vuci and Grdelica were just there, in Vuci and Grdelica, not in Leskovec. Vucije is 17 kilometers from Leskovec, and from Vucje to Oruglica village, which belongs to Leskovec, and on the administrative line, you have another 30 kilometers. Then Oruglica had 40 or more students, today there's only one, and for that one student we have to fight for. That's why he needs the Internet in such villages. That's why he needs an asphalt to every village. That's why we need to strengthen barriers like Wolf and Grub, because then we'll save the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4299	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4300	Dear President of the National Assembly, Honorable Minister Matic with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, on the need to create better conditions for living in the country, as well as on the importance of investing in infrastructure in rural areas in order to keep young people from staying and living in their places I spoke several times in this high house. In this regard, today's agenda item – Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – speaks precisely about the willingness and determination of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make these terms and conditions possible, but also implements them. The project to build broadband communication infrastructures in rural areas in this sense will provide a quality internet that will cover rural areas and will thus have special importance for increasing the quality of everyday life of people living and working in the countryside. It can be said that it is a project that will greatly facilitate life in the country, because today digitisation and development of electronic communications is one of the necessary conditions for the development and progress of each environment and every society. In the past year, we have witnessed that the Internet has been a key tool for overcoming the many problems the Kovid 19 virus has brought us and that in this case we have had particular problems in education, but also the possibility of working and fulfilling our work obligation at all. The whole system continued to function precisely thanks to the Internet, i.e. I mean online teaching, but also on homework. The pandemic, free to say, has peeled an additional digital inequality between children in rural and urban environments. According to data that I came up with in preparation for today's exhibition, over 80% of young people in Serbia use the internet daily, and every nine young people in Serbia do not have good access to the Internet, which implies that in the average class in Serbia at least three students do not have good conditions for online learning. It is precisely this project that we are able to overcome this problem and given that today children around the world are using the Internet not only to communicate with each other but also to create certain programs and software to improve life in their local communities. One of the examples where life in the global community has been promoted is a 17-year-old boy from Washington, who we had the opportunity to read about in the previous months, who created a site to monitor the coronal infection with the virus. That is why it is important that we discuss this project today, as is important the Connected School Project, which we ratified at the end of last year, because it contributes that children in rural areas have available and high-quality computer networks and computer equipment, but also access to the Internet and thus have the opportunity to realise some of their ideas and be prepared for the challenges they expect in the future, i.e. do not lag behind their peers living in urban areas. Of course, the biggest benefit from this project is certainly expected in the education sector, as this project will cover internet integration of over 500 primary and secondary schools, as well as other public institutions in rural areas and over 80,000 households in the surrounding environments. This is particularly important if we consider that during the pandemic of the corona virus in rural areas, there were some problems when performing and organising online teaching, while in urban areas this was not the case and the online teaching took place quite normal. In rural areas, particularly educational workers have brought a great burden to these emerging circumstances, and with this I believe that investment in communication infrastructure, as well as in computer equipment, but also in modernising schools, will help educational workers to make their work easier, as well as to carry out teaching better and better. In a broader context, this investment will contribute to a much bigger social problem, which is that it will have a positive impact on the survival of our villages. So this is a great example of how we can warn quality projects and solve big and wider social problems. Ensuring a quality internet that would cover Serbia's entire area contributes to improving rural and remote areas, creating a favourable economic environment, improving industrial areas, and connecting our country's economic regions. The Internet, as we know, is today a need and business communication and also one of the basic means of electronic business. In this sense, the expansion of the network into rural areas of the benefitephite will also be felt by our agricultural producers who will thus be able to come to customers for their products and will be able to present their products more easily and successfully, as well as sell their products via the Internet. What is particularly important is that young people in the country will no longer feel that they are second-class citizens, because they do not have the opportunity to use mobile phones and computers as a means of communication and communication with the world, and this opportunity to realise this project will certainly contribute to bringing all the information coming from the world closer to our village, the rapid flow of information and experiences that will have the opportunity to exchange, but will also affect the modernisation of the village and the development of rural tourism as a type of tourism that has been in expansion in Serbia for the last years. What is of multiple importance to the development of rural areas is certainly the possibility that our citizens in rural areas can use electronic concessions from the public sector and make life easier for them and reduce many situations and complexity with the administration. Finally, I would take advantage of the opportunity and the presence of Minister Matic and point out the need not only to improve the signal of the internet, but also to the need to improve the signal of mobile telephony in villages across Serbia, which is what our citizens still often encounter, and which makes it impossible for them to function on a normal day-to-day basis. The development of information and communication technology affects not only those habits that are a means of the 21st century and, of course, a reflection of the digital society in which we are located, but also gives us certain equal starting opportunities for all spheres of social life. This loan and the effects expected from the construction of a broadband internet for many rural areas in Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group sees as an investment in the future, not as a cost, and we will support this loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4301	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4302	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is transforming and providing quality services to citizens and creating more and more jobs with high wages and not only in the IT sector, but also in other areas. The draft law on the agenda is important for us to adopt, because broadband Internet is a way of connecting to the Internet, where it will also allow for a greater speed of data transmission. All of this has a major impact on improving the quality of life of our citizens, in a more efficient functioning in many areas. Just now, the President of the Republic, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, when he presented the 2025 plan, announced major investment in education, which includes investment in these areas. So, fast internet for all students and students, and it's especially important for both digital textbooks and digital classrooms. The provision of schools in villages information network significantly improves the quality of teaching and enables remote teaching, which proved to be extremely important during the pandemic in which we are located. The importance of realising this project is reflected in the fact that there are many strategies and agendas relating to improving public governance and the business environment through the support of new technologies and innovations, right through digitisation, in this case and the introduction of a broadband internet. Anyway, when we talk about these things, when we talk about IT technologies, about new software packages, new software, new solutions, it's clear that Serbia is going a good way, it's moving forward with the modern world. Someone can comment, ask if it's expensive or not expensive, how much it costs, etc. This isn't expensive. It's not expensive when you invest in young people, when you invest in education because these are the foundations of our future. Can the price be calculated, that is, how much is the purchaseable software, which serves nothing, which is never used, and is bought by the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? We have such examples in the past. All happiness for the citizens of Serbia is part of their past, but somehow a way of doing so, treating the budget and money of the citizens of Serbia and business themselves, we see what the consequences are today, when the public is informed about the numerous accounts of Dragan Gilas in many countries around the world, starting with Mauritius, through Switzerland, Hong Kong, etc. When I mentioned software earlier, I wanted to make an example, one of many in a series of dozens or hundreds of other examples, of what it looked like to invest Dragan Gilas in the future in Serbia. The former Belgrade government, led by Dragan Gilas, bought software, so-called. SAP ERP in 2009, which has never been used. So they kept up with the modern world. The software paid about 10m euros has never been used. The idea, if I could say the idea at all, was to involve city services, secretaries, some other institutions, and this is the fact that school or education or youth were not a priority, not to talk about health. However, this software has not been used, and what's interesting is that with the same company city government then, after this fact that they bought software, they didn't put it into use, signed another contract. They bought a software package worth half a million euros for what is said to be consulting-service services. So Dragan Gilas invested in the future of Serbian citizens. This is just one example when we talk about IT technology software, youth education and the general IT sector in Serbia. Who knows how many more cases there are? No wonder we're facing these news days ago, especially the last ten days. It is clear here that it is not disputed that someone can earn a large amount of money, make millions, although it is difficult for ordinary citizens to imagine and not disputed to be successful in the private sector, but it is disputed that your bank accounts increase multiplely during your public office while you are in power, while you should be responsible for managing and managing the money of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's no problem to have this much money, if he's registered, if he's acquired legally and if he's paid a tax on it. All of this is causing huge suspicion, because given what's being said, that simply Dragan Gilas, not only cannot deny, but he cannot be polite to answer the question to journalists these days. So many questionable questions, it really opens up space for competent institutions to act. They will need a lot of time and effort and work and energy and strength to track down all these situations we have met in previous days and to present it to the citizens of Serbia that the former regime used their money. When you ask the former regime how they directed money to Serbian citizens, they can come out today with a globe or a map, with a map of the world and show where these money is currently, from country to country, from continent to continent. When you ask the responsible management of the SNS program where money is directed, we show the roads, show the hospitals, show schools, kindergartens, railways, new factories. Today, when we talk about this topic, we also talk about modernization, about the modern way of working in our schools. This is the difference between us and them, and that is clearly what citizens say, from the election process to the electoral process, they are increasingly supporting the policy conducted by President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4303	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4304	Dear Minister with Assistants, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the development of rural areas, the integration of industrial zones, the integration of our country's business parts, the improvement and investment in new technologies and innovations in business, could one of these goals be achieved without stable internet connection and without fast internet? No, you wouldn't. Today what we used to mean under good infrastructure for economic development, good roads, good electricity network also represents good internet access, fast internet, and this is practically today the main communication and main precondition for industrial development. It's something that we SDP insist on, something that can advance our employee, something that can increase his price and really provide him with the necessary skills and knowledge. That's why we'll certainly support this loan of 18 million. Of which nearly two million, 1.7 million are grants and, of course, we want it and I am very glad that broadband infrastructure is financed, I have already talked about it, in the rural regions of our country. That, once again, is a good prerequisite, but a mandatory precondition for development, for the industrial development of our neighborhoods, and we know that the rural areas where this is potential, I'm going to say, the least developed landscapes in our country. So over 500 rural settlements will be covered, 500 schools in rural areas and over 80 local households. Wide access allows citizens, except for phones and TV, to use some very modern services and services – e-banking, e-business, e-Health, e-school, etc. So now some grandmother, for example, will be able to apply very simply for vaccination in our home of health or give us information that we organize our services, which we do in Novi Pazar, and send people who will vaccinate in these rural areas. For example, some student through the COBSON National Library of Serbia in the vicinity of Brodarev, in Prijepolje, will be able to list the most modern textbook in any world library and thus lock their exams with a lock-up and a real quality of knowledge. I know that the Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications in the previous term, as State Secretary, was a member of the Commission for Co-operation with UNESCO for the IT area and for the Information Society. Also, I know that the minister was headed by a task force to define the National Broadband Network. So, you were both a promoter and a creator of this idea so that a fast and high-quality internet could reach all corners of our country. The time we live in today shows in the best way what it means and what it will mean to people in these parts of the Internet, because today we are studying, talking, buying, learning our children etc. So this time has shown that your idea and what you insisted on was very important. In the SDP, the main criterion for delegating our officials to public positions is courtesy and results, minimum pulsism and maximum professionalism. It's the Maxes of our leader he always insists on. The Social Democratic Party is the leader in promoting women's entrepreneurship, women's business, women's leader, and I can conclude that Minister Matic is the real representative of our political lightmen. I want you, Minister, too, to remember us by the hiraths, by the good projects that will benefit generations after us. You're on your way.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4305	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4306	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected minister with associates, respected Serbian citizens, today's topic we are looking for and support from the assembly's majority, broadband internet, digitalisation of Serbia, but with a special accent and a task of developing the internet in rural areas, is indeed a topic that deserves all attention from MPs, but also from the Serbian public. What we are discussing today and what we want to get the support of the congregation’s majority is something that others have thought of as a noun and something that others could not promise even as a pre-election promise, let alone carry it out. The quality of the infrastructure in the rural area is no longer just a road, electricity, water, we need more and we need to do better. Do you need the Internet? The Internet is over-needed, necessary and is another reason why someone will decide to stay in the village. But that's not enough, we have to go beyond that. It must also be the production of healthy food, it must be rural tourism, it must be new conditions and ways of trade where exactly what is produced in the village will find its way to Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac, to find a way to Balkan and European cities as well. One of the reasons why this must be supported is that this window into the world is a broadband internet. In the first phase, here is a conversation with the minister and members of her cabinet, in the first phase of this project it is directed to equip schools, school classrooms, but it will certainly be possible to use in villages and local communities, for the homes of culture and for all those who need the internet. Here is the opportunity, and here is the call for the presidents of the municipalities, for the mayors to take part in their undeveloped rural areas. Let them address the ministry, make a connection and deal with the ministry to help not only implement the work, but also train and apply not only, I say, schools and classrooms, but also in rural local communities, cultural homes and wherever the internet is needed, perhaps in some infirmary or anywhere, literally anywhere. It would be good, too, on the Finance Committee we talked about, that teams from the ministry, professional teams, trained teams, people who deal with the team should be on the ground and help make this software and hardware that ended in schools simple and explain and show students, teachers, those who will be users and how to simply use and use it. For a single student, there is a future for that village, and there is a local community, and there is a reason for these people to stay in those places. As I think about this, here's a brief and clear example, which is exactly reporting for vaccination, immunisation and the way our citizens apply. Of course, with the help of the internet, the digitisation that is in most of Serbia's application, which has already been applied, but another reason why the internet should be available to everyone, of course while they do not have the internet, the president managed to organise and provide a vaccine for everyone. But it's not enough to provide a vaccine that will be placed in hospitals, health homes and hospitals in cities. Mobile teams in the shortest time, in the shortest time to visit older people and also to the older ones, but also to the younger ones who at one point do not have the internet, allow exactly the necessary immunization. The call to the presidents of the municipalities is not formal, it is essential. The presidents of municipalities as elected people for these municipalities, for these villages they are about to join together with their teams in implementing these projects. It's a good thing we have someone to do this for, because if it hadn't been for Alexander Vukic's 2012 policy, we wouldn't have had a place to install this so far, and we wouldn't have someone to explain the Internet widely to the villages. It shouldn't be a great expert now, so it comes to the conclusion that there are serious problems for the villages, but it has shown an example of the Kovid situation that the village has just been found as the first, I think the most significant, in Serbia's defence of Kovid, which is exactly the village, the food produced in the village and the stability that we get. Because we don't depend, on one side when it comes to food, on no one, and on the other hand, on Alexander Vukic, we don't depend on the immunization of neither the West, the East, the South, nor the North, but we depend solely on ourselves, or on our president, and on his power and power to make elections in these difficult moments, literally elections for each vaccine. The way Serbia is now acting can serve as an example to all European and of course to world states. While we are discussing wireless internet, the broadband Internet in rural local communities in the rural area for small schools, and even for one student, while we are taking care to find work for everyone, to do road infrastructure to every village, to each house, have some others thinking about how to hide as much money as possible, who can't precisely determine which countries and banks have millions of euros, and who at the same time for those millions of euros they don't even know how they got them, or how many citizens are damaged, but who know where they are, don't find reasons to apologize, get in and out of the mouse hole, and don't get out of it until someone from the state authorities comes to ask them -- good people, where do you get so much money? I would like at this point to have one of the state authorities simply find a way to tell citizens the truth about 619m euros, how much the company Dragan Gilas, who at the same time is trying to be a leader, just don't know whose. His lies every day, he no longer believes in them, he doesn't believe in his close associates, there aren't many of them, but they don't trust him anymore, and we don't have anything to talk about Serbian citizens. To whom Serbian citizens believe, they show it in the elections. On the other hand, we have people who, in this impotence, are unable to do anything good for Serbia, for their failures, for the failures of a failed policy, of course unjustly blaming Alexander Vukic, the only thing they can do is threaten it. The latest threats in today's day and the threats addressed to the president are another vision and an attempt to destabilise Serbia, to destabilise Aleksandar Vukic, to destabilise the SNS, and this assembly majority. The message is very simple; their threats will not bear fruit. We respond to these threats with new projects, new laws and new investments and new jobs. To their threats, Aleksandar Vukic reacts to exactly new highways, a new tour of all those he should have visited, a man who is willing to listen to everyone and serves everyone as a role model and serves as someone who can be seen has the right to lead this Serbia, he has the right to expect the support of which one of these Serbia gets. Once again, it's worth fighting for every school, every classroom, every broadband internet in any village. It's worth fighting for every student. I insist that in the day of voting, count who voted and who did not vote for the future of our villages, for the future and for that one student. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4307	Thank you. National MP Svetlana Milijac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4308	I thank the chairman. A respected minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, the structure and dynamics of society at global level, its present and its future have determined more and more scientific and technological development and the information revolution. The development of electronic communication technologies is inseparable from modernisation and is a driver of social change. The broadband internet is a way of connecting to the internet that is 10 times faster than basic access, i.e. allows for a high speed of data transmission. Using a broadband internet, namely by enabling 80,000 households across Serbia, about 500 schools and public institutions will receive fast internet, thanks to the digitalisation process supported by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. William Gibson once said - the future has already begun, only it is not evenly distributed. We are aware that the styles of life in rural areas differ greatly from urban environments, differ not only in tradition, but also in the limitations of certain services, especially those of the public. This project will help improve the socio-economic, social, cultural and educational capacities of rural areas, leading to accelerated regional development and progress in European integration. In this way, a stimulating economic environment will be created, quality living conditions for rural residents, as regards the state administration, such as the portal e-Government, then, more quality and much faster services in the field of medicine, services in the area of trade or distance payment services, and not to mention how important it is for education since we are aware that at the time of the pandemic, the corona virus learning has proved to be very significant. This approach will also allow manufacturers to get acquainted with better, new, innovative ways of running production. Their knowledge of market and economic trends in agriculture and agricultural development is increasing. What is also important to point out is that information and telecommunications technologies allow residents of rural areas to act together, to network, to expand, to strengthen not only agriculture, but livestock farming, trade, tourism and especially entrepreneurship. Why is this important? It is important precisely because of sensitive categories of inhabitants of rural areas such as young people and women in the country because of entrepreneurship and new jobs. The development of information technologies and communication technologies has particular importance for sensitive categories because this reduces their isolation from the flow of information. What is significant is to emphasise that not only increases the number of jobs, but new opportunities are being opened for rural people, which encourages socio-economic development. I have to remind the citizens of Serbia and all those people who are interested in it, and it interests many, because in the last 10 days we have witnessed something that has left Serbia and every normal citizen found, and that is 57 secret accounts in 17 exotic countries of Mr Dragan Gilas, which I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the period from May 2007 to June 2008, carried out the job of a minister without portfolio, in charge of implementing the National Investment Plan. What did Mr. Gilas invest in in this Serbia? Is it possible that he invested in some meter of highway, some school in the country, some hospital or anything other than his own pocket, that is, those secret accounts that are now swimming out like when the sea pulls back and remains to see what's left behind? Could he have invested in education, science, technology? No, he invested only in himself, in his secret accounts, in his real estate and is still investing in tearing down President Alexander Vukic's policy, which this Serbia began to raise from the ashes after the desert they left behind. We now have new hospitals, vaccines for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are provided, citizens themselves choose which vaccine they will receive, faster we go from one city to another not only us but also the children of those politicians who left behind the waste until 2012. That's Serbia we don't want. We want Serbia to advance, Serbia to grow, Serbia to be a stable state, Serbia to be better for all our children. Long live our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4309	I thank the People's MP Svetlana Milijac. The word has been made by MP Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4310	Thank you. I would like to take advantage of today's opportunity and pay attention to the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement concerning the project of building broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. More than 30 years ago, there was a thing that changed the course of humanity from the root to the world as we know it. The network of all networks or the Internet, as we call it, was born on March 12, 1979, and after only a few years of existence, the Internet exploded and became an allied thing in every man's life. In our country, the Internet appeared several years later, more specifically in 1996. Since then, the Internet and all other computer and information technologies have progressed at an unimaginable rate. The importance of the Internet has increased and is increasing in line with its development. At first, he represented the transfer of only certain types of information. Today the Internet literally represents the availability of all kinds of information. The benefits of today's internet are enormous and are viewed primarily in the possibilities of learning through the Internet, rapid availability of information, review of current news, communication with other people, exchange of experiences, opinions and information with other people etc. The Internet today provides us with all possible information and instructions at any time in a few milliseconds. Based on data from the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, it has been found that for just over half a million households in rural areas there is no economic interest of operators in developing new generation networks, i.e. access to high-speed internet. To be more specific, information has appeared in the media that half a million households in the Republic of Serbia do not have internet access, but it is a mistake. It's a notorious lie and a lie. So these households have internet, but not internet access at high speeds. Further analysis by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications found that only 5% of households, i.e. around 150,000 households, do not have fixed internet access. Although this number of households is small, Serbia as a responsible state is aware of the importance of the internet in the 21st century has decided to launch a project to develop broadband infrastructure in rural areas, and the result is this bill. What is the importance of the Internet? We had the opportunity to see during the root crisis when a large number of Serbian citizens were in isolation. A good and fast internet has made it possible for citizens to be in touch with their loved ones, to buy online, to get timely information and to cope with the crisis more easily. Thanks to the internet, digital teaching is enabled for a large number of students and students. Also, it has been possible to work from home to a large number of employees, especially during a period of emergency, with some of the economy continuing to function. The aim of this bill is to develop fast broadband networks in white zones, i.e. areas that do not have access to the fast internet, more specifically in rural areas across the Republic of Serbia, focusing on schools as access points and priority users. This proposal for a loan law will enable the construction of broadband infrastructure linking 500 schools and public institutions in settlements in the white zones, i.e. these rural areas with existing broadband infrastructure and ensuring the free and long-term right to use electronic communications operators selected through a public tender. In return, selected operators will build a infrastructure that transmits signals from a broadband network at a relatively small distance, more precisely from house to house, which connects schools to 80,000 surrounding households. We must note that this project, i.e. the bill proposal, is part of a wider initiative and represents the first of two phases, where the second phase targets up to 900 schools and public institutions and up to 135 thousand households and is planned as a separate project in 2021 and 2022 respectively. So despite the crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, it invests in projects that are vital to our citizens, constantly working to attract new investments, to raise wages and pensions, to build new traffic. Now, at this point, respected colleagues and respected citizens of Serbia are working on building four highways, and the idea is to start building four more highways by December 1st. No such thing has been recorded in Serbia's history. In this way, Serbia takes big steps forward and arrives those ahead. Also, I must take this opportunity to commend the visperity of our president and our government in the fight against the crown of the virus and the acquisition of the vaccine. Serbia is conducting one of the fastest anti-coronal vaccination programmes in Europe, providing citizens with the availability of all world vaccines. It's not just me I'm talking about, it's American Bloomberg and German Frankfurter Algemane Teatung. The policy of the president of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, despite the crisis that has hit the whole world, also destroys all barriers, opens an economic perspective, so that we can move as quickly and as far as possible forward. As far as the broadband internet I spoke of is concerned, it has a significant impact on faster access to information, on GDP growth, on employment, on curbing the digital gap between urban and rural areas, and is of key importance for balanced regional development. That is why I will personally, and I hope my colleagues, in the voting day, support this, as well as other bill proposals, in the hope that they will be the basis for a strong and modern Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4311	I thank the People's MP, Boris Bursac. The word has a folk letter from Adriana Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4312	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have today an extremely important proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement. It is a project to build broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, based on analyses and studies of geographical, demographic and socio-economic specificities of certain parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which manifests the responsible policy of our President Aleksandr Vukic, Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, as well as the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, which shows that there is a dislocation in their focus, i.e. a balanced regional development of our country. Special attention is paid to increasing the speed of data flow on the Internet, in rural schools, where access points will be used to expand Internet access to households that could not develop because of their distance from urban areas. The provision of schools in rural areas with an information network, but also with infrastructure building, will significantly improve the quality of teaching, enable the realisation of remote teaching, facilitate and increase the quality of everyday life of parents and children, but also the integration of people, economic regions, the development of industrial zones, as well as the increase of the use of new technologies, innovations in business and education, all in order to reduce the lack of qualified labour force and enable the rest of the population in rural areas, the positive effect of the first phase of the project of building a broadband structure in 400 to 600 rural areas with which it is linked between 400 and 600 rural schools to optical access and providing access for up to 90,000 surrounding households. Because of individuals who will try anything useful and well to challenge, and also because of our citizens, I must also say that it is the conduct of the procedure, i.e. a public call in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner and will be awarded to the operator who delivers the most economically favourable offer, as well as that the terms of the loan contract, thanks to which the decade-long problem will be resolved, is extremely favourable, given that the maturity period is up to 15 years, a grace period of up to three years, while the deadline for the completion of the project is 31 December 2023. Knowing that even in the farthest parts of the largest village of Borsko County, which is the village of Zlot, in the part of Zlaća, but also in Kobila, where there is a school, there will also be a small Maša and small Katarina, my daughter Nina, but also all the other children living in the country, not only in the other 83 that make up an integral part of the Borsko Management District, but also in other rural parts of the Republic of Serbia, I look forward to that, thanks to the responsible and caring policies of Aleksandr Vukic, all children will have the same opportunities for their growing up. From what is said, I am convinced that, in addition to the Parliamentary Group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", what is most sacred to us, and our coalition partners, in the day of voting and the other MPs in the plural, i.e. in the Assembly, unanimously support this proposal, given its importance, but also the fact that our children's lives and growing up have no price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4313	I thank the People's Parliament Adriana Pupovac. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4314	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a Guardian of Citizens. I solved it a long time ago, back in 1988, to be the guardian of the villagers. As someone who is the president of the People's Peasants' Party and as someone who lives in the country, because the village has 3,000 inhabitants, which is 42km from Belgrade, we have both cable and internet and ADSL recently, in many ways we can reach the Internet. We have a pipeline, we have roads, phone communications, all streets are paved, so what we have should have all the villages in Serbia. If we want the village to live first, we need to make sure that there is adequate infrastructure in the country, and I mean telecommunications. Secondly, we must enable subsidies not only to the agricultural industry but also to the food industry that can be earned in the country. That it can be earned from processing, that it can be earned from rural tourism and that in such a way we can attract our villagers who have gone to the city and who have not all managed well in the city, that they can return and have a certain future in the country. I welcome this 18 million loan, because I believe that it will create and increase GDP, or that we will not do what the party of the former regime that ruled before us, which was taking the debts, and in doing so did not create exports to repay the debt. If you're in debt, and you're creating debt recovery exports, it's like buying a loan field in the country, buying a loan machine, and automatically having debt back exports. There are poor agricultural holdings that take credit, unfortunately there are such, so they go to the sea, buy some luxury car, and don't create debt-return exports. Then it's a very bad loan, i.e. poorly placed and badly credited. I think this opens up opportunities for rural tourism, and I think farmers can increase agricultural production because they can find out about new technologies on the Internet, they can learn a lot about varieties of seeds, seedlings, breeding throats, how to hold them, how to find farms, how to build them, etc. However, the loan is good, but let's think about whether we really need all these loans or could work to get some of the stolen money back. As it is about communication, the current situation with Gilas and his 70m euros is now under quote. I won't say it's an exit, for me it's an export of money. So, Gilas is there on, I don't know how many of his accounts, deposited the money that they went through before, and they came from somewhere. That money came from Solak's business. But how did Sollac get them? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian team is playing tomorrow. A large number of these villagers will not be able to monitor Serbia's team. He won't be able to track. Contrary to the law of Article 64 on electronic media, peasants, the rural population will not be able to monitor this game unless a cable operator SBB is present or they have purchased a satellite antenna called Total. They won't be able to track it because the law of Article 64 on electronic media is being violated. This article in 64 says this – REM, RATEL is something else, that REM as a regulator should establish the list of most important events. The most important events include Serbia's team matches. These are the most important sporting events. They are listed as the most significant events and can only be broadcast by television stations covering the entire market in the Republic of Serbia and other than cable access have free access to the antenna. These are legal conditions. So that all our citizens can follow their team, because it is in a certain way and finance both the national team and the clubs that are mostly financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Now we come to a situation that citizens who finance our teams, who love our country, who like to watch these sports broadcasts that fall into the most important events, they can't, they don't have the right to watch, it's the right they're denied by Mr. Solak. How? The founder of the SBB is Kragujevac TV and Dragan Solak. From Kragujevac TV in 1997, it was done by Goran Petrovic, currently in REM, a REM member. So, the man who founded the SBB, then called the KDS, controls what the SBB is doing. So he controls the company he founded. Another master who used to work at REM and RRA is Nenad Jankovic, in Kragujevac known as Nasha cowboy. It's the second co-founder, and the third is Dragan Solak. Now, this Nasha cowboy has left REM on the RTS Management Board. Now watch this. Sports rights can buy any television station, but let's just say that no television station in Solak's SBB section covers the whole market, according to Article 64 of the entire Serbian market, nor has a free access, which means they can buy the right, but they can't use it. It's the same as if I were to buy a plane, but I don't have a flight permit and I don't have the right to drive it in Serbia's territory, let's say I buy it in Luxembourg. Just because I bought it doesn't mean I have the right to use it, because I don't meet other legal requirements in Serbia. He buys sports rights that he doesn't have the right to transfer. They are reportedly registered in Luxembourg. It does not buy sports rights for Luxembourg, but rather buys sports rights for Serbia, and allegedly re-emissions the programme from Luxembourg. What are you re-emitting from Luxembourg when you didn't even buy sports rights that would have been re-emissioned here? If that's true, then they have to buy those sports rights, the game of our team should be watched by the Luxembourgers, and we can re-emission it. Why didn't RTS buy those sports rights? Well, there's Nasha cowboy. Everything's synchronised. In REM, one monitors that REM does not establish the list of most important events, so since these have not been established, on the other hand, the Nasha cowboy in RTS follows that RTS does not buy rights that could be consumed by law and that it places them throughout our public, or all viewers who want to watch their team. What do you get? There's an interest in SBB and Total. So if, and everyone loves sports and football, if you want to watch your team that you finance in a certain way, you have to subscribe to SBB or Total. Otherwise you are deprived of that right, which is contrary to Article 64. The law on electronic media. What else is being created? Halftime is the most expensive, and before the game and after the game, the most expensive commercials are in the broadcast of football, basketball, volleyball, etc., especially football. There's gonna be a football game tomorrow. Count how many commercials will be placed on the alleged cross-border television that has been deprived of transmission rights and is doing so illegally with the help of REM and RTS. Moreover, the Law on Advertising states in Article 27 that domestic advertising cannot broadcast televisions that re-air the programme, and they are reportedly re-transmissioning from Luxembourg. There are several ways to break that law. Except that they are causing greater interest in subscribers, these are monthly subscriptions, so whoever wants to watch the team has to be ready to follow for 12 months, how long the qualifications are, like, the world European championship, that long-term SBB and Total. Otherwise, he won't be able to watch what the law has guaranteed him, and they'll illegally put in commercials. Count the seconds. Every Sports Club has thousands and thousands of seconds of advertising space. The Serbian Radio Television, for example, takes 100 euros, takes 100 euros or 200 per second in front of daily ones. Now, look at how many of these sports clubs, especially when our team is playing, how many seconds they broadcast at halftime, before the start of the game and after the start of the game. Em gets subscribers, everything's illegal, they're still incomeing from marketing, and that marketing is taking who? The domestic media that are registered here and who pay everything to REM who receives personal income from there. Otherwise, cross-border television doesn't pay for anything. They pay RATEL, SOKOJ, etc., all pay and lose part of their marketing market from those who have no right under the Law on Advertising, or by the Law on Electronic Media to take away part of their marketing, part of the bread. In such a way, freedom of the media, believe it or not, is being torn down. If you take that money from home channels, then they are dependent on the state and on the municipalities in those competitions, and that's not good for democracy either, because they appear, they want us to admit it or not, because local regional media is dependent on municipalities, local mangoons, sheriffs, local despots that grow up in that way, if the media are living off the competition, then of course the mayor, who controls it there, is kind of privileged and, of course, suffocating a certain degree of freedom of the media and a certain degree of democracy. Now, that money is huge. They started putting in commercials, except in sports, and I explained how against the law, look at the Fox channels "Discovery" and "Histori", that is, I have proposed a law on amendments and additions to the Electronic Media Act just to clarify the already applicable provisions that I'm talking about now, that REM and RATEL have to control it. The Ministry of Telecommunications and the Ministry of Information that they must control whether they are truly cross-border media, is that so, Mr Arsic, or they abuse that right, because they really are not, broadcast the programme from Belgrade, so as to send a signal, it returns, and is technically considered to be re-emissioning. Cross-border channels and the Convention on Cross-border Channels itself says they are channels across the border, and the very word re-emission of the programme means that the programme is being broadcast across the border, so it's being downloaded here at the same time. That's not the case. I have proposed that the use of this species that is being used every day be removed. Why wasn't United Media complaining? Why wasn't Skye complaining? Why wasn't SNN complaining, classic cross-border channels, Rai Uno, etc., but those who are under suspicion, you know, like we hit the United Group. I did not hit any United Group, but I want the cross-border channels to be protected from fake cross-border channels, and the domestic media also from these fake cross-border channels and I explained, imagine opening a shoe shop and paying everything in this country, registered in Belgrade, and then I come, I open a store in the wild, so I bring some solution from Luxembourg and I say, "I'm registered in Luxembourg and I don't have to pay anything." Of course, I'm going to choke your business, like they're suffocating domestic media, and I already told REM why it's silent, because there's the School's people there, and I already said that certain people were placed in RTS, so RTS won't buy rights that they have the right to carry, and those who don't have the right to buy it, and then, since REM hasn't set up a list, then it's smuggling, and it costs hundreds and hundreds of thousands of euros on one game alone, and I was counting on -- by the amount of seconds the ads they play, they steal hundreds of millions of euros from that part, it's School's money and what Gilas gets, divided. Check the transfers, see how the money got to the School and check how it got to Gilas from Solak and you'll see it's from stealing and it's a classic theft at the expense of domestic media. We shouldn't need a loan, even if they have an obligation to expand their market, so they have an internet per village, etc. No, they stick to city environments, they get caught, they steal marketing, look at History, Discovery and Fox Channels. Do you believe that there are commercials going to the Americas for Zaječarski beer, Diamond, Telekom, etc.? They go to commercials that they play in really cross-border channels that end with domestic advertising, which is also prohibited. And that's why if we want the money back, we shouldn't just return it from Gilas, but from Gilas and Solak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4315	According to the report, the word has a folk MP Ivana Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4316	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with his associates, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is in front of us today an important law, important for the future of our country, important for the further development of digitalisation in our country and important for the further development of rural environments in Serbia. What is very important to me to stress is that the policy of President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia certainly advocates decentralisation, is certainly in favour of the development of our rural environments and will also be done in the future to ensure that all segments, but also all parts of our country are parallel and equally developed. With this 18m-euro loan agreement, we will implement a project that, as I have already said, is extremely important, which concerns the construction of broadband communication infrastructure. We have two segments that are important here, which is a phase relating to the "middle soap" parts, where we will reach 500 schools and cultural institutions in our rural areas, and that is precisely in, let's say, the white areas of our country's rural area where operators will be in charge of continuing these capillaries, and the networks and via the "last mile" segments to cover the network and reach another 80,000 nearby households. What might be best is to explain certain processes through a personal example. I'm someone who was born and grew up in the capital, of course, grew up with all the benefits of life in one urban environment, of course, there's a good signal on the phone, there's a good Internet network at all times. But a few years ago, I went to work in a rural environment to live in a village called Kruzja, where I met some things that are completely normal for us in the 21st century, and they don't get along there. So, with the first wind, we ran out of Internet, with the first rain and thunder, we ran out of electricity, and that's simply the truth that our rural environment meets daily, with which our fellow citizens, peasants and farmers meet each other. That is why it is extremely important that we continue to spread a good internet, a good flow of that internet network across our entire country. Also, I realized that it didn't anyway grow up in an urban environment as a child and grow up in the village. So once again I stress that at least in this segment of digitisation it is important that we fight for our rural areas, it is important that we fight for these children who live in the country. We also have a pandemic and monster situation that has hit our entire world, and somewhere we've all had to face new reality, meet new ways of life, with one virtual format of our lives. All the people who were able to work, moved to work from home, moved to online work, our children switched to online schooling, all the trainings, seminars and other kinds of education also moved into that virtual form. So once again, I stress the importance of developing a broadband communications network in these rural areas, so that all our citizens can step in with digitisation. Today's child who has ambition and desire to learn, and lives in the country, it must not suffer because of it, he must have all the additional classes and mathematics and physics, all the other courses of foreign languages, and all the other visions to say this training, quick learning, quick reading. Simply, our children across the country have to have a window into the world and for that reason we have to provide them with good Internet flow. When we mention this digitalization, we can't even mention the electronic administration, we can't not mention an extremely good state project that helps our citizens in all these administrative affairs, we can't even mention that digitalisation in medicine. With just one example of the link between pharmacy and digital prescriptions for medicines, we make this healing process extremely easier for our citizens. Also, what comes first to me when we mention this broadband communication infrastructure is digitisation in agriculture. When I visited the Biosens Institute in Novi Sad, my view of the future in agriculture certainly changed drastically, getting to know their research, their inventions, their technologies. I realized our peasant in ten, fifteen years won't look the same as today. I hope that we will have the opportunity to see our farmer holding the tablets in his hand and from one location, using sensors, using robots, using drones, can monitor his entire household, can be in progress with all the irrigation processes, with soil sampling and monitoring the precise growth and development of his seed. I repeat, all this would not be possible unless this important step was taken first. That is why I call on all my colleagues to support and vote in favour of this law in the voting day, because that is how we vote for a window into the world and vote for a better future for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4317	I thank the MP Ivana Popovic. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4318	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is important and it is important that we discuss today a very important project to implement a broadband network aimed at rural areas in the Republic of Serbia. I have no doubt, Madam Minister, that you will have knowledge and that you will have sufficient capacity to implement this project which is very important for the decentralisation process, to strengthen the even regional development and policy that we have established in 2014, which is based on doing everything possible to strengthen our infrastructure that, along the highways, railways, airports that we have built over the past few years, makes one very important factor and factor in attracting foreign direct investment, of course, by increasing the number of jobs, especially in rural and underdeveloped areas and of course strengthening state administration and local self-government. I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and my colleagues that you are one similar project, related to the digitalisation of television, successfully implemented several years ago. This is enough to tell us that we will have this opportunity for the team in your Ministry and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia to deal with this problem in one quality way and provide an even better soft infrastructure that will benefit the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our country and that will improve what they say, and as statistics say, if the broadband network is strengthened by ten percent, this means that GDP will increase by 1.3 to 1.5%, which is in the phase in which Serbia is located, which is accelerated, dynamic, economic development, attracting investment, opening new jobs, opening new small, micro and medium-sized enterprises very significantly. It is very important because it comes from the state and where the state shows that it has good enough and quality management and people who are aware of the importance of strengthening the infrastructure, how important this type of capital projects, which has this multiplier effect, are safe and that when it is set up, it will have a very, very good and positive impact on new investments, on the quality of life of citizens. If we talk about developing parallels and education in this sector, if we develop this hard infrastructure, it tells us that all these rural parts of the Republic of Serbia will be able to develop and we will be able to implement our strategy, as established by President Aleksandar Vukic, on demographics itself. This means that our policy for the next period, not from five to 10 years, but for the next 50 years that he defined, as someone who is a visionary, who is a leader, who defines this country's policy for one strategic and long term, is to make us more. The prerequisite for this, in order for us to be more, is not to concentrate all of us in two or three major cities, such as Belgrade, such as Novi Sad, such as Nis, Kragujevac, but to simply young people, as my colleague Popovic said, have motive and stay in their homes, do jobs and have a quality of life similar to those of their peers and colleagues living in urban areas, therefore in urban areas, or urban areas. Definitely, our country's chance for development and growth is both in agriculture and in ethnic tourism, which will make the implementation, that is, the realisation of this project enough to make all these sectors develop well enough, to develop this infrastructure well enough, so that we can increase the potential for these people to stay, to develop their jobs, to develop their entrepreneurial initiatives and all that they have as ideas as well as to provide them with conditions to get better education and to make their quality of education as best and quality. I will give only one very good example of how Serbia has succeeded and how important it is, how important this process is and how much digitalisation, and the expansion and strengthening of capacities in terms of internet and telecommunications capacities in Serbia have shown precisely this crisis caused by the coronal virus. Serbia is today another country in Europe after the UK by percentage and quality of the immunisation process. So the first country Serbia becomes after decades, someone at the top of Europe, and this has shown when it comes to vaccination and immunisation. It is at the top of Europe, especially at the top of the region when it comes to geopoliticals and, of course, when it comes to the vaccination process and the acquisition of vaccines and the health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and should be said openly, it is better achieved than many more developed, more modern and rich countries in Europe and around the world. It is the product and fruit of the art of President Vukic, his good and quality foreign policy and has finally proved that Serbia is able and able and that it has friends and is a reliable partner with the strongest players in the world, such as the People's Republic of China, such as the Russian Federation, but also in those from the EU and the United States. We are one of the few countries around the world that can offer four vaccines to its citizens, can offer this choice What is even more important should be noted that we may not talk enough about countries like the Czech Republic and Hungary having a sufficient number of vaccines, they have obtained them, but the vaccination process does not, unfortunately, run as it does in Serbia, and it runs exactly as Serbia has been prepared and has conducted the digitalisation process in the right way, which is what has practically digitised its state administration, public administration, local self-government, and which in real time can control the situation in the field in terms of vaccination and therefore, in Serbia today, you can in Belgrade today, inject several thousands of people who will not wait in line for a few minutes. This has been happening, ladies and gentlemen, for several months now and here in Belgrade, but when we talk about equal regional development and decentralisation is the same process in Lebanon, the same process in Leskovac, is the same process in Presevo, Užic, Piroth, in any part of the Republic of Serbia. In doing so, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Vukic, shows how much they care and how much the field does not mean when you care about every part of your territory and every citizen, when all your citizens are equal. Some in the previous session, I remember that as yesterday, when Mrs. Brnabic became Prime Minister, spoke and mocked us, and talked about it, so there are many places in Serbia that have no sewerage, what are you talking about, what digitalization, what kind of artificial intelligence? Those who not only did not create the sewerage, who not only did not raise any factory, who did not attract the maltenes of any foreign investor, who brought us to the field that we had 26% of the unemployed people in 2012 criticised us for the digitisation that contributed to Serbia being today, after seven years of Alexander Vukic becoming prime minister, after that in 2017, the president, to be champion. What's very interesting is that I can understand the political struggle and I can understand the exchange of arguments that can also be fierce in the political struggle, but I can't understand that someone can't understand the truth and say that, we congratulate dear friends, colleagues, even though we disagree politically, congratulate you Aleksandra Vukic on what you've done for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because you've raised pride in this country, because after three decades of losses and the fact that we've been in and constantly lost, you've become a country that is a winner. It has become a country that has all the conditions to come out of this crown of crisis the fastest not only in the region, but throughout Europe. Here, Israel, look at the images from Israel, in Tel Aviv, Jafia, Haifa is living a normal life, 60% of the citizens of Israel have been vaccinated and rehabilitated, and they have declared victory against the crown of the virus, starting strongly with the development of the economy and economic and investment projects. We're a little short, we need a little bit. I think we'll be in that situation in a month and a half, up to two months, but that's because we had a clear strategy. If someone really wants to be explained to him, it can't be that progress in two months, not three months, but it's a process, it takes time, a few years. In fact, today all the results of the Vucic vision are seen, from the construction of highways, the construction of railways, partnerships with key players at global level, the Far East, the Middle East, the Russian Federation, the United States, the European Union. Besides, that same Wolf was building this so-called. soft infrastructure. We invested in education, we invested in science. We cooperated. We were not ashamed to learn from the Chinese, learn from the Israelis, learn from some of our other German and other European partners and apply it here and be champions today. We should not be ashamed to say that we are another country in Europe at the rate of immunisation. This means that we are another country in Europe that manages to save the lives of our citizens. And those who used this state and the budget to open up accounts in tax havens so that the money they took from state firms and state enterprises would transfer to tax havens to enrich themselves, their families and clicks around them, they are criticizing us today, and they today have the right to attack each of us, anyone who dares to publicly say that this was wrong, that this is for the worst and most negative, therefore, for the greatest conviction and for the sanctions, of course. Because Serbia is a legal state and a state in which to speak. It's our job here at the National Assembly to talk about it. No single dinar of national money, no single dinar of unpaid tax will be left without Serbian Progressive Party MPs speaking publicly about it and condemning whoever did this to this country. Because every dinar we, led by Alexander Vukic, want to invest in a broadband internet, in the education of a child in Surdulica, in Vladic's Han, in Piroth, in Negotin, in any part of Serbia where they are not the same conditions as here in Belgrade. We will instruct and encourage all state authorities, prosecutors and courts to effectively and uncompromisingly process all those who have abducted and taken miles of highways from this nation, took the same internet and that broadband network, took their right to live, work, create, open their businesses wherever they are. The same are, as far as we can see, only proven, my colleague Bakarec was talking about this this morning, it's about dozens of accounts in various tax havens where tens of millions of dollars have been spent for now. We have to raise our voice against it and say it - that's why someone has to answer to these citizens and to this people. We can't talk, and we won't have a compromise on how we should be silenced in this process, because we want to build this country and because we want, as President Aleksandar Vukic says, to be more, because only if there are more, if we create, if we create conditions for our young people to stay here to work, to create a liberal, economic, entrepreneurial society where it's good to work, where there's no shame to earn, but in a fair way, and this should serve as one of our children's examples. It's not an example of Hong Kong, or Mauritius, or Moldova, or Geneva. An example is a colleague Popovic, an example is a farmer in Vojvodina or in southern Serbia, an example is an honest foreign investor who came to this country to hire people and to secure salaries for our citizens. In this policy, in this direction, we will uncompromisingly follow President Aleksandr Vukic and we will fight and we will fight for modern Serbia and Serbia in which children have a clear, good future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4319	I thank the People's MP, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic. The word has a national emissary Jelena Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4320	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the project to build broadband communication infrastructure is certainly one of the priorities for the state of the Republic of Serbia. It is a priority because it is a strategically important complete digitalisation of Serbia. We as citizens of Serbia every day can see the benefits of that digitisation. Benefite through the integration of state administration, through eGovernment, through eRecepts, through electronic teaching, online teaching, eDnevniks, as well as monitoring and organising vaccinations in Serbia. In order for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, like every student in the Republic of Serbia, to have free internet access, the internet needs to be introduced into rural areas and villages. For the time being, this was not possible, not only because of the specificity of the geographical position of the villages themselves, or because of their demographic image, or because of their economic and social status, the providers were unable to develop, or because of their economic gain, to develop a network in rural areas of Serbia, but these contracts also provide signatures with the 18m-euro European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, provide justification for such projects where the internet will be available throughout our Serbia's villages. During 2017 and 2018, a full analysis of the state of internet availability in the Republic of Serbia was carried out, and during 2019, maps of areas that do not have adequate internet access, i.e. they do not have a flow of 100MV per second, or have no internet access at all. Such areas are about half a million in Serbia. In order to improve this, the goal of realising this project is, above all, to map 500 schools that will have the Internet in the first phase, and hence, to develop a network for 90,000 households that will also be imported through it. It's just phase one. A project like this will continue during the following year, when both the realisation and other projects covering 900 schools and 130,000 settlements are planned. Ladies and gentlemen, even though the last few decades the whole world has been taking great steps towards digitization, various areas, through health, education, industry and new innovation technologies, unfortunately we have stagnated. That is why today, for the first time in the XXI century, we are able to bring the internet into all the villages of our Serbia and to every citizen, resident and student of our Serbia. If the previous regime and their tycoons had even thought about rural development, at all, regional development, our children, our schools, we probably wouldn't be doing this today. We are witnessing today that the tycoon of the former regime, Dragan Gilas, has been in power for years, sucking money from the Republic of Serbia and putting it in tax havens, on accounts around the world, on Mauricias, Hong Kong, Switzerland, and 17 other countries around the world. What was his goal? Its goal, of course, is to assume that tax evasion, i.e. not to pay taxes to the Republic of Serbia by reselling multiple times its own company. And today, ladies and gentlemen, we have a paradox, a paradox in that this same Dragan Gilas is coming before us, in front of the public of Serbia, where he speaks unscrupulously and presents himself as a politician who wants to lead this Serbia, and this same man has silenced the tax and has not paid the state of Serbia, where the full budget of the Republic of Serbia is through that tax. So today we're building schools, kindergartens, building infrastructure, and we're just digitizing our Serbia. A recent visit to Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic Šumadija, the villages of Šumadija, as well as Vuk Jeremic and Miroslav Aleksic to the municipality of Knic had a complete debacle. Not only did they not have any program, a political programme, to show our hosts in our forest villages, or that their only program was to speak hate for SNS and Alexander Vukic, but the biggest debacle is to look at the fact that they did not come across the support and approval of their host policy in our forest villages. Our hosts, as they remember, remember what these same, former regimes and their tycoons have left in their amanets and their children. They left a broken infrastructure in the field of education. They destroyed not only roads and education infrastructure, but they left schools that didn't even have drinking water, they didn't have toilets, not to mention digitisation in villages and internet access to every citizen and every student in Serbia. Also, these hosts and how they know and see that for the last four years only in the municipality of Knić have been reconstructed almost all schools, that these schools are energy-efficient today, that for the first time in ten schools in 2017, drinking water has been introduced in our rural areas, that these schools are digitized today, that they are equipped with computers, that they are equipped with cabinets for physics and chemistry, that schools in Knić and schools in Gruži fono laboratories for languages, where just these village students have shown incredible interest. It is these village students today who have the same conditions for education and work as any other child in the Serbian city. That is what is proud of President Aleksandar Vukic's work with his team and the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's our forest hosts and how well they remember. That these hosts have always been on the front line through history have shown many times. They have also shown many times that they also know that they are struggling when it is most difficult, as is now during the Coronal Virus pandemic, when the largest economic surplus in the Shumadi region has been achieved throughout Serbia, and they have shown that they are fighting a pandemic of the Coronal Virus when over 52,000 inhabitants in the Shumada region are re-reacted. The government of the Republic of Serbia knows how to reward the best. I would take this opportunity to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Ministry of Government and Local Self-Government, which as the best local self-government in the Republic of Serbia, for the efficiency and effectiveness of the municipality of Knic. Thanks for that. It is precisely because of such dedicated work, along with SNS and Aleksandar Vukic's policies, that more and more of our hosts and more young people in the municipality of Knić who remain living and working, which they have had the opportunity to see recently my distinguished MPs from this high house who have spoken to such young people in the municipality of Knić. I must point out that these are the first representatives of this high home of the National Assembly of Serbia who have even visited villages in our municipality, in the heart of Serbia, in the heart of the forest. Honestly, thank them for that. That our hosts and how they know that they recognize the leadership of the Republic of Serbia have shown in recent elections. They showed that the biggest confidence was shown by SNS and Alexander Vukic when they gave over 60% of their votes. Some municipalities in Šumadia, such as the municipality of Knic and the municipality of Rač, and over 75% and up to 80%. So, dear Gilasovci, Alexici, Jeremiah, you have nothing to look for in our forest villages, because our hosts and how well they know who they trust, and how well they know that when we work and when we fight, no one can beat us. Long live Knic, lived Šumadija, lived Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4321	I thank the MP Jelena Obradovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4322	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, of course, are the purpose of raising this loan, which I can say is not at the very nominal amount of something great and to regulate a part of the country and society that many have assumed will not be coming soon in Serbia, it is about duty to improve the internet signal, to translate the most ordinary citizens, into rural parts of Serbia, which have been decimated in each respect over the past decades, decimated by migration from these communities to large cities, decimated from these environments to EU countries and looking for a better tomorrow. Now, if I were to remind myself of the period when Aleksandar Vukic began to rebuild Serbia and how long it was to have a law today that regulates one of these things, I can say that we passed it relatively quickly. Just to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, in 2014, because at that time as a candidate for Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic began to visit rural parts of Serbia, to visit schools, to visit homes of health, to visit municipalities that gradually died, then called him the Prime Minister for the toilet and mocked everything we did, which we would try to do and mock our plans to restore Serbia. I guess they thought they'd destroyed her so much she'd never be restored. Of course, this area that we are currently discussing is very important for our citizens to stay in these municipalities, to develop economically, to build their future there, to give them the opportunity to give these people they didn't get from the former regime to stay where they were born and to raise, to school and to leave their offspring. You know, the second step of our reforms was building traffic infrastructure. I must remind you again that the former regime and Dragan Gilas attacked us. Most often they say, "Well, it's not a highway or a road that you eat and what you live on, the people need a job, so I ask a logical question -- and how many investors are you going to bring to some place if there's no traffic, if there's no roads, if there's no electricity, if there's no gas pipeline, if there's no rails, if there's no means of telecommunications?" We have now shown this last piece that Serbia can be restored, that Serbia can be a better place to live, but it would be much easier for us to, instead of putting several million euros in the pocket, instead of the same Internet communication and its use and rental, to make these rural parts of Serbia better in the 21st century. To put aside what a crime it was in financial terms, but I have to ask how many of our tens of thousands of people have left Serbia so that Dragan Gilas, Solak and others can get rich in the period 2001 to 2012? It's a very high price we've paid, in the losses of the population. Now, again, those people who are just because of their carelessness have driven their loose ends out of Serbia in various ways. Only one example of our citizens, who are in the diaspora, as a mangoon named Dejan Atanakovic, is trying to force them to give up Serbia, to give up queens, countries from which they originate. They're still stressing, look out, he's a professor from Florence. So, what? Are we less worthy of staying here in Serbia? I don't mind if any of our scientists, artists, do anything to improve the quality of their scientific knowledge, do their art in the white world. I absolutely don't mind, but I hope that one day he will return to Serbia and transfer his knowledge to the generations that are in Serbia. If he doesn't, he's no professor for me, especially if Culibrk gives him a NIN reward, then he's just a hohstappler and nothing else. They abuse the fact that tens of thousands of people have made them think that Serbia no longer has a future and that they need Serbia to leave it empty and that it is sold out by Solak, Gilas and Miskovic. That's the problem. It seems to me that all of this today, whatever Aleksandar Vukic is trying to do, has only one goal in the former regime – to present it in such a way that it is unsuccessful. We're not going so far as to go, two, three years ago, here just last year, to remind you of what happened when it started, when the pandemic actually started, caused by the coronary virus. The first was – why don't you close Serbia, so why don't you introduce a curfew, and later it was to violate civil rights and freedoms because of restrictions on freedom of movement over a certain period of time. Just remember those ugly slaps in the pots, pots and pisses that they sent to our doctors, nurses and technicians who fought in the red zones. In every way, they tried to disabling Serbia to be modern, developed and that this people would exercise their right to a better life. And today they're fighting one of those fights. The water is via the anti-vaxer lobby, although Dragan Gilas has received a nice vaccine, but he will find his followers who will represent it as something bad, that it is dangerous. Guys, this team accused the Internet of communicating that it caused the coronary virus, that the 5G network caused the coronary virus. They're saying that whoever receives the vaccine will be injected with a microchip that will control his behavior and all sorts of nonsense. According to them, according to those who talk about how the earth is a flat plate... I need my fellow Members to remind me of where this ideology came from. It starts with the Roman Catholic Inquisition. It's one of the darkest parts of human history. Just remember, Jordan Bruno was burned, Galileo had to give up his science work to keep his head alive, they burned women accusing them of being witches, throwing them in the water, strangling them, what they didn't do to them. I don't see the difference between that inquisition and today in the antivaxer lobby. Maybe they're right, which is if it wasn't for this civilization right now, we probably wouldn't be tortured by the crown, but we'd be dying of the plague, of the leprosy, of the great goddesses. Probably, according to them, both Paster and Tesla and Pupin were supposed to be burned at the stake, but today they and we would be driving around in oxen wagons and living in mud houses. I don't see any difference between an antivaxer and an inquisition that was in the Middle Ages. It's a serious problem that we have to face as a society. I find it a little funny that in the 21st century, someone needs to be convinced that due to their personal health and responsibility to others, they receive one vaccine, but that chaos that would result in Serbia not going through immunisation properly and that one of the leading countries in the world and Europe only corresponds to Gilas, because Gilas can no longer win any more elections, let alone Alexander Vukic. He dreamt of only one thing, which is that by violent means he will regain power in Serbia. One way is that antivaxer lobby. Now, that anti-vaxer lobby, if you thought about it, and if they burned Pupino, Tesla and Paster, there wouldn't be any Internet. I ask the question – what would be the meaning of their lives? They'd probably still be accusing the women of witches and strangling them and burning them on fire. It is just a small part of the problem that has remained, a small part of the problem Serbia has today, and the goal is that in the near future every part of the Republic of Serbia has the right to its economic development, that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia feels that the state cares about it, that it can count on the state to do everything to bring back a man's life, that it doesn't have to go through the white world, to be its own. When we talk about the quality of life, I know that in a large part of Serbia it is not just an internet signal that may be necessary first, but certainly is one step that must be taken to improve the economic environment, that such regions are also developing economically. I can't forget when Prime Minister Ana Brnabic spoke about digitisation in 2017 in his first exhibition, what he plans to do as a prime minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. If you look at the Schools and Gilas media again, it was attacked and represented as science fiction. Now for the first time we have serious results and not only results that show that we moved from the dead spot, but results based on which a good part of the globe envys us today, which, unfortunately, we had to prove at the time of a pandemic. But it has been shown and proven that Serbia can also be a better place to live, that it can build a future in Serbia, and I don't blame my countrymen for anything that has left Serbia, because they have been driven out of Serbia by their disastrous policies, Dragan Gilas and Solak. But don't attack the results and wins Serbia has. Everyone has the right to make their own decisions. Someone decided to go into the white world and look for their happiness there, I don't mind, but don't attack the results of those of us who have decided to fight in Serbia to make Serbia a better place to live, to make Serbia a place worthy of living and that we are not ashamed of being from Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4323	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is Mariana Krajnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4324	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, is before us today the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which also refers to the project of building broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas. Based on everything my colleagues have said before me, we can conclude that this project affects the improvement of the quality of everyday life of people and that it helps to function more efficiently in many areas, that it also has a positive impact on the development of industrial zones, the integration of economic regions and, above all, the development of rural areas, which implies new jobs, new jobs, new employment, GDP growth. Speaking of GDP growth and employment, I must remind the citizens of Serbia that we have the smallest GDP decline in Europe, and when it comes to unemployment that our unemployment is less than before the pandemic. In the next period, all necessary measures will be taken to preserve financial stability and to ensure as much economic growth as possible. We are now talking about the announced third aid package for the state, so to the citizens and the economy. First of all, citizens will be allowed, of course, to those who apply for it, to help twice 30 euros, once in May, once in November. The pensioners will also receive an additional 50 euros, so pensioners will have total aid from the country of 110 euros, and for the unemployed, an additional 60 euros will be paid in these two times 30 euros, so that the aid will be 120 euros. In addition, assistance will also be given to micro, small, medium and large enterprises, autocarers, hosts, workers in tourism, and this list will certainly be updated in the coming period. While we as the responsible government worry about providing Serbian citizens with the best standard of living, preserving jobs, opening new factories, representatives of the former regime care exclusively about their personal interests and already well-known accounts abroad. Here, for days back, we've been hearing about the base figures on the accounts in Mauritius, Hong-Kong, Switzerland, and I'm just wondering if there's any end to this series, which I honestly seriously doubt. Serbian citizens deserve to know the origin of this money, because it is not possible for someone at the start of their political career, such as Dragan Gilas, to report a 75 000-euro fortune, and after a few years, that wealth is measured in tens of millions and even hundreds of millions of euros. You'll agree that there really is a lot of illogicalness in that calculation that should be examined. So this is just another one in a series of affairs of former regime representatives, and it doesn't surprise me at all that they lie, steal, deceive people, threaten violence because it's really the only thing they can do. While we wait for all their malfeasances to come out, since it is indeed only a matter of time, we will work hard and hard to improve the future of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4325	Thank you. The word has Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4326	Thank you, Vice President. I've studied both of these laws well that we are considering today in a united debate. I must say that I have always been happy when both these agreements and agreements that are regionally, in line with European legislation, we are signing, somehow and in this mandate, we have just found that we are more and more harmonising these agreements and annexes and that in some way we are sending out a message from Belgrade to talk, to say, and regional binding, but harmonising our regulatory, so whether it is a common airspace, whether it is about everything else, that they are just coming for ratification in this Parliament's concisement. I hope that such agreements will be more and more, and now I would refer to this topic which my distinguished colleagues today have practically the highest part of the time and dedicated to, as far as this new task is concerned. I wouldn't say debt or loan, I'd say investment first. Why the investment? So for the simple reason, for all the reasons that we could hear here today, I don't like to repeat myself with my distinguished colleagues, but maybe from one angle I would describe this situation that many today have referred to as one of the preconditions for staying and young people and educated and those doing something in rural areas, that they have a fast and high-quality Internet. In any case, it promotes the quality of life in rural and rural local communities, but I would say from another point of view that it may be more important that it be a prerequisite for many young people in this era of urbanisation or working ability who went into urban areas, first of all towards Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, to think about and return to those places that would allow them what they once had, but now in far better quality conditions of life. Along with this digital infrastructure that is being done systematically in the Republic of Serbia, there is daily infrastructure, road infrastructure and every other one that should essentially enable basic things that, in the meaning of words that mean the quality of life in one place, certainly improve in every sense. Speaking of quality of life, I've had a chance twice in my life or two in my life since I'm from the urban community to go to the country. That's unfortunately, one was a period of war when he was in my hometown, he was showered with grenades. I was in elementary school then, we had to go to nearby villages where the range wasn't so easy for our enemies who came from across the Sava River, who today look at Serbia in a completely different way, I'll talk about it later, they thought that Serbia would fail in every sense of the word, but to go back to the topic. Those moments, the departures, even though there was war and all that could be seen what life in the country was, for me the rest of my life had been carved up. In a positive way of saying it. I would appeal today from this position, from this place, first of all, not in this sense the rest, but the return of all those who may have rushed to Belgrade and other major areas, or gone abroad, to think about some preconditions today, and this loan I said, investment, also means that virtually everything they may be trying to achieve in some other places will have or already have on their own doorstep that can't be replaced anywhere. In that sense, I want to say a few things that are also important in all of this, we have seen that in this era of digitisation our Office for IT, for the electronic administration of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done a huge and fantastic job. How important that is, perhaps in this pandemic era, just in the other sense that I wanted to say when I was just talking about it, the second chance I had to do for my children, to take them to the country to practically spend two months last year when everything was locked up was just in the Corona era, in the Coronal pandemic era. By talking to the locals who live in the country, not to talk about which village and what area it is, not to point out anyone, I think these are the very things that may be the greatest handicap for them. During that period, an online school began, etc. The speed of the Internet can indeed speed up that decision that parents who make decisions on behalf of their children do not make that decision to sell some rural property worth dozens and perhaps a hundred times more, to move to an urban environment, so that their children can go to a better or better quality school. This now and with these system improvements is going to melt and there will be no difference at all, and far more quality will be living in suburban towns, in rural areas and there will be no reason to leave unless you have some job and call that can bring you other values to provide your household. What I want to say in all of this, which is very important in that kind of story, is the moment that we are in today, which is practically a period that is complete, not only in the region, but in Europe and the world, it is a pandemic of the coronary virus, which has brought us now into a position that the Republic of Serbia, unlike other countries in the region, has been significantly better set up at this point by its policy, which it has based on foreign policy, has allowed us to have a huge number of vaccines and a huge number of vaccines. What is important, and from this place to appeal once again, to all other citizens who have practically not yet crossed the crown, and those who have, to be vaccinated, to be reviving themselves, and that practically by doing what they do best for both their families and their neighbors and their friends, and also for their country Serbia, because it is the most sublime patriotic act that any individual in our society can do at this moment, whether he lives in the country or in the city, and especially since we now see that we are going with campaigns and in rural hospitals, and in mobile teams, that it is practically made possible, and not only with these electronic methods, digital, electronic administrations, applications and everything else, now and physically, anyone who has intentions, and should have every intention, should be vaccinated and come, even if it was the ambulance. The messages sent by the Minister of Agriculture and the President of the Republic by announcing where they will be vaccinated are heading in that direction, and I once again want to appeal in this regard to everything. What I also want to point out as one parallel in all of this, let's say, with the Republic of Croatia, if we compared the Republic of Serbia, who unfortunately over the past 20 years all thought that the Republic of Serbia had been defeated, that everything that happened in the 1990s, and unfortunately what happened in the beginning of 2000, and all of those politicians who, in the past period of time as representatives of the former regime, were able to listen to how they apologized for everything that happened in the 1990s and that it was the fault of the Serbs and Serbia, that we came to this difficult economic situation afterwards and that Serbia, in relation to, say, the Republic of Croatia, was certainly lag behind and it was their perception, every average citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Today when you go to the Republic of Croatia, I have a chance because I often travel, perception has changed. They believe that the Republic of Serbia has not only equalised itself with the Republic of Croatia, which has become a member of the EU in the meantime, but that it is making significant progress, that they are making significant progress with their position, their EU membership, and this has best shown themselves in the era of the pandemic on the crown virus, it is best shown in the context of the story of precisely obtaining the vaccine, the previous and the respirator, that the EU, in what has been promised and what has happened, did not get what was expected. If we were to compare it here with Dragan Gilas, who promoted... The system, we in the Republic of Serbia today, as well as, unfortunately, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is bazaar... The system wouldn't have any vaccines and we'd have the numbers that today the dreary ones had for sure 10 to 100 times more. Therefore, the political responsibility, the vision of President Alexander Vukic, to have foreign policy immediately after the takeover of power in the Republic of Serbia's four pillars, made it possible for the visionary visionary that we can be put in place today and that we have these results in terms of primarily the provision of vaccines, but through digitisation and through the work of the Office for e-Government, through the promotion that we do daily and this number of vaccines that are among the largest in Europe and the world. In that sense, I just want to point out once again one thing that is extremely important. We had a board of directors today. We've been thinking about something that has to do with the Internet and everything that's been going on these past few days. Today, on the Administrative Committee, we discussed the requirements for breaking the Ethics Code of People's MPs Martinović, Atlagic, Orlic in terms of this story that they violated a certain code of ethics that we are all here together at the proposal of Dr Martinovic, who made a practical proposal and respected all these supplements that allowed someone to abuse and submit these applications today, that we came to the position to discuss what someone in the National Assembly here said as his freedom of expression as a national MP. We have had the opportunity to see that certain public creators who primarily act on Twitter are trying to justify their existence through various forms of projectism to attack not Mr Martinovic, Orlic, Atlagic or any of us, but to humiliate the Assembly and show that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is an institution that is not worth anything and in which MPs speak some difficult qualifications, not looking on the other side what they do on these same social networks, on these same portals, that it does not advertise them, and some today write columns, not only are they one-way, but they are so ugly that they are not nice or repeated here. What they write on their portals, on their Twitter accounts about Dr. Martinović, Orlic and everyone else should be honored to them, and I tell them here from this place – let them be ashamed. We will continue to fight for Serbia, for its children whether they live in the city or in the country. In any case, what awaits us in the future means only one thing, which is that we will not withdraw from their attacks but that we will fight for the future of our children with a broad smile and a high forehead.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4327	Thank you. The word is Milos Bandur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4328	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased to take part in the debate on the law confirming this loan, which makes citizens of rural areas, areas and citizens of high urban areas equal, at least in this area when it comes to the Internet, when it comes to data exchanges, when it comes to high technologies. Namely, it is known that in urban areas, in cities you have several operators, you have their competition and the struggle for the market, and where there are fewer people, where some villages are harder to reach and need to cross more kilometers, and the number of users is small, that no one invests there. It's because simple operators look at everything through economic interest. They fight where there are many customers, or users, where there is much to be invested in infrastructure, in a communication network. Simply, these areas are not interesting for them and it is good that the state recognized that in this situation it must intervene to make citizens living in rural areas equal to citizens living in high urban areas. Where the operator does not have an interest, there the state will jump in and as far as I can see from the material in 2017 and 2018, talks with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, i.e. our ministry and the bank have studied the modality in which they stimulate operators to simply develop the network in rural areas. It is likely as a result of these conversations, i.e. those analyses, the model presented in the material, which is that from the highway communication owned by the operator to some point of access in the village, which is usually a school, the state will invest in the communication infrastructure and hand over the operator to the management of 25 years, with the operator still obliged to go from that point of access, and I say it is usually a school, home of culture or some public institution, stretching the network, the optical network around the village. As we can see from the data, somewhere less than 3% of the households in Serbia, but it's about 70,000 households don't have a broadband internet at all, i.e. there's no way he can communicate with the broadband, and that's what they're called. white zones, as I recognized in the material, i.e. white dots on Serbia's map. In addition, we have areas where somewhere below 40% of the population has the ability to communicate more than 30 MB per second, there is a fast internet, but the coverage of the territory is insufficient. It's something below 40% of households, or the population. Such households are 250,000 and that is about 11% of Serbian households. As I recognized in the material, these are the gray zones that are spoken of, in which at least one operator has a developed broadband network, but the coverage of the area is not satisfactory, or it is not covered in a satisfactory way. I think they're the subject of this project and the first phase we're talking about and the next phase, just white and gray zones. They're Targets, right? White and gray zones. Those in which there is no internet at all, or broadband internet and those in which broadband Internet exists, but there is a fast internet, over 30 MB per second, and we want ultra fast, or over 100 MB per second. The concept of a job assignment to the operator is very interesting and he has my support, I hope, and the support of all MPs. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which provides the funds, insists that their consultant be present at the assignment of jobs to operators, i.e. that all operators say where their nearest access points are to their highways and from there to certain rural areas, i.e. schools that are rural access points for the local network. The communication optical infrastructure is being created and, of course, there will be a public tender. Whoever is best, who offers the best conditions will pass. All of this will be supervised by a European Bank consultant who is a lender. I said at the beginning, it is the operator's obligation to develop a local network and offer to citizens, i.e. residents of those sites the internet is faster than 100 MB per second. The material says that in the first phase, about 500 schools will be covered, although I see that there are 1,500 settlements, or 1,500 of these white dots, white zones, probably not every village or section of the school, so probably from one place that's bigger, which has a school to form an access point where the operator will have to stretch the net into other smaller places, so it was a data that was a little confusing, but your confirmation tells me that it was, that I was right. When both the first and second phases of 900 schools and 135,000 households are completed, which is somewhere in a total of 230 thousand households, then all users from white and gray zones will be able to use or introduce the ultra-fast internet. So the one that implies speeds greater than 100 MB per second, which allows all services. We have a situation that now in the crown children in education, regardless of the level of education, whether it's a primary, high school, the university is following an online course and should participate in the online course. We have that those who have opportunities can work from home. Why wouldn't people from rural areas have the same possibility if they had ultra-fast Internet. So this introduction of the ultra fast internet will solve many problems, equate the status of many citizens living in these environments and citizens living in urban areas, absolutely increase interest for those investing in investing there and will certainly contribute to an increase in GDP. What is interesting is that the terms of the loan, i.e. the loan, are classical. When I say classic, I mean very convenient. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank, the Bank of the Council of Europe, all these institutions when investing in green energy, protecting the environment, in some basic and promotional things, give very favourable conditions. I see this loan has the same conditions. Three years is a grace period and it's actually the period until the implementation of the project is completed and then the wars start, 12 years times two wars a year, every 22 December and 22 June and everything ends with 22 June 2035. As regards the percentage of interest on undrawn assets, early repayment options, etc. Everything is the same as in the other loans this congregation had before it. So the loan is extremely favourable, the objective for which the loan is used is more than noble and good and useful and I think that citizens living in rural areas will best assess it. Of course, the fact that schools are access points and that, above all, schools are connected to ultra-fast internet, i.e. to get ultra-fast internet connection to a wide-ranging network is very useful, of course, and for the very process of education in our rural schools. I see that with this loan goes a 1.7m-euro grant from the Investment Fund for the Western Balkans. It's a pretty high grant, it's almost 10% of the total loan. I can see, of course, that the grant also has its specific purpose, these are consulting services, design services, study making, etc. Usually, grenades designed for these technical activities are much smaller. I hope that the Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Telecommunications, which appears as a project management unit, will also take account of how the most rational and in the best way will use the funds it receives from this grant. I thank you for giving me your word and, of course, I want a successful realization of the project.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4329	Thank you. The word is Vladica Maricic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4330	Thank you, Chairman. Today, we have a loan agreement on the agenda that will allow a broadband internet to arrive in 135,000 households in Serbia. This internet, i.e. a broadband network for Internet access, will build a state for them because private commercial operators do not have a commercial interest in building this so-called ". Master's internet network. With these households in about 800 villages in Serbia, they will be able to feel all the benefits of the 21st century, they will be able to engage equally in the digitalisation process, they will be able to use electronic administration services, they will be able to trade online, they will be able to use electronic banking, they will also be able to work online. The time of the crown has shown us how important the Internet is. Anyone who had access to the fast internet could somehow easily adapt to the new conditions of emergency, the conditions of partial or complete closure, rather than the one who had no internet access. I'm also talking about kids in schools, but I'm also talking about all those who could do their job online. Large cities in Serbia, even the centres of municipalities in Serbia, have a relatively good internet. The problem is remote villages, villages to which it is difficult, or expensive to build infrastructure that would be paid to commercial operators. This is why the state comes and the state will build that infrastructure to access points in the villages. These access points are usually schools and schools will start everything. About 800 schools will have access to high-quality and fast internet, and then commercial operators will be able to divorce that so-called. The "last soap" network, which will go up to about 135 thousand households in Serbia. Commercial operators building the "last mile" network and benefiting from it will have an obligation to maintain the "middle soap" network, which the state has built. This brings us to greater equality between the citizens of Serbia in the city and those in the village of so-called. digital equality, because it will no longer matter if you live in downtown Belgrade, whether you live in Nis, Novi Sad, or live on a mountain, where the air is beautiful, where the food is healthy, where the water is healthy and from your place where you live, where you may have inherited a house, a grandfather, you will be able to engage equally in all world streams, because as in the 1960s and 1970s TV was a window in the world, today we can call the Internet a window in the world. Unlike a one-way TV, the Internet is a two-way window into a world where you are equally involved with all the participants on the globe. The construction of this wide-ranging internet network in Serbia's villages belongs to the SNS. No, by chance, those before us didn't care much about the citizens, they were more concerned about how to fill their pockets, and then hide that money from the citizens of Serbia and export it to their accounts in the Paradise Islands, such as Mauritius, to export it to Switzerland, which is a tax haven, to export it to Hong Kong. The Serbian Progressive Party, headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, is the first to show genuine concern for the country's citizens, i.e. for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. President Aleksandar Vukic, declared Serbia's 20-25 programme, which will allow all Serbian residents in each village to receive a water and sewerage network by 2025. The SNS has just had the strength to introduce a new ministry within the state administration, it is the village's ministry. All of this, both the Serbia programme 20-25 and the Ministry of Agriculture and the construction of a broadband network, up to about 800 villages in Serbia, is a village care, is a concern for peasants, is a concern for every citizen of Serbia. That is why I, as well as my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – will support this proposal for our children in the voting day. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4331	Thank you. The word is Vesna Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4332	Thank you. I would first look back at everything that actually affected our lives, all segments of our lives, and that's the pandemic of the Corona virus, and it only further confirmed that Internet use has become necessary and that the Internet has to be available to everyone in order to adapt to the new conditions. This raises the question why we need access to the Internet, but not only that, but also the higher speed of data transmission. First of all, for a course that takes place online over the past year. Everything that was done before the pandemic in the field of education, I mean the introduction of digital textbooks and digital classrooms, made it easier to function during the pandemic. Serbia is among the rare countries in Europe where students have not lost a single class during the pandemic. We live in an era where even the youngest basics in the remotest villages use smartphones. It is really necessary for all of them to have more quality, faster and cheaper access to the Internet. On the other hand, the number of employees who do their work from home is increasing daily. The sale of online products has increased for various purposes, i.e. ordering from home, and this is in these terms the only branch that records major growth. Our activities in parliament are also related to communication with colleagues from other countries, from other parliaments, also take place online, but also numerous other conferences. Today, world diplomacy, whether it's bilateral or multilateral meetings, is unimaginable at this moment without the internet. We are witnessing that the meetings of the world's most important leaders are also held online. From all of this, we can conclude that today is unimaginable to do business, to educate, to simply function in a modern world without using the Internet. We are all users of the services I have listed whether we live in the city center or in remote rural areas. I think that using the Internet may be even more necessary for people living in remote rural areas, first of all, which saves not only money bigger and time, because using these technologies allows us to quickly inform ourselves, to pay bills without going to the post office, not to wait in lines, we can apply for different types of incentives to start a job without waiting, to follow up on competitions from different areas. And if we want to move forward with the development of technology, network coverage must be the same intensity across Serbia's territory. It would briefly refer to the exposés of Prime Minister Brnabic, in which she highlighted digitisation as one of the priorities of the Serbian government. She also noted that the Serbian government's goal is to make our country one of the leading digital hubs in Europe. Our potentials in the area of human resources in this area are globally recognised. Belgrade, a newly-sad start-ap ecosystem is among the top five in the world when it comes to quality and accessible engineering personnel. The government invested about 100m euros in the area of innovation infrastructure, in science and technology parks, start-up centres, scientific institutes and university infrastructure. We all need to work together on the digital future of Europe, because stronger co-operation between European countries, better knowledge sharing and experience are necessary to strengthen the single European market and its competitiveness at global level. I would now also refer to the Western Balkans digital agenda launched by the European Commission in 2018 at the Digital Assembly in Sofia, and one year before that, the idea was actually launched at a summit in Trieste held in the framework of the Berlin process where Western Balkan leaders supported digital integration as one of the four components of a multi-annual action plan for the establishment of a regional economic area. The objective of this agenda is to support the transition of regions to the digital economy and to achieve the benefits of digital transformation such as faster economic growth, more employees and better services. The Digital Agenda for the Western Balkans includes investing in broadband in the first place, and we are also talking about it today, according to Minister for European Integration Jadranka Joksimovic, who is one of the signatories of this treaty, Serbia has run for a project to introduce broadband internet in rural areas of Serbia for the EU's Economic and Investment Plan for the Western Balkans, which is important for linking with European economies and sources of new growth. This project is important for Cluster 4 in the context of negotiations with the EU under a new methodology, and Cluster 4 concerns digital integration and green agreement, but is also linked to Cluster 5 which is dedicated to the resources and development of agricultural policies. The Digital Agenda for the Western Balkans also includes increasing cyber security, trust and digitisation of industry, then strengthening digital economy and society, this means strengthening tools in the areas of e-government, e-procurement, e-Health, but also developing digital skills among citizens, without which of course this would not be possible. Finally, perhaps the most important segment of this digital agenda, which is to encourage innovation research, as the digital agenda will support the establishment of national research centres and the development of the most modern e-infrastructure in the Western Balkans and integrate them into the digital European Research Area. This will include new generations of research and engineers organising top-notch training and at the same time promoting co-operation across Europe. Serbia is ready, of course, and has the capacity to lead the region in changes that create new and equal opportunities for all. The digitalisation process will improve the standard and quality of life, reduce costs, create new values in almost all areas of life and work. The digitalisation process is the most important catalyst for innovation and growth. The adoption of this bill will certainly be a significant driver of development in all areas that I have already cited, and I find it extremely important to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4333	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Milan Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4334	The respected chairman, respected representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected fellow citizens, is here today a very important topic for a balanced development of Serbia, a very important topic for creating conditions for equal chances for all citizens in our country, regardless of where Serbia they live, whether they live in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis or in some rural areas. In previous years, state leadership led by President Vukic has made huge efforts to restore the country economically, to create new jobs, so today, in addition to having the economy with the highest growth in Europe, besides having new factories, new jobs, besides having a record low unemployment rate, I would look back on a very important fact. Today, in Serbia, factories are not only opened in large centres. Today, in Serbia, factories are also opened in smaller, less developed, rural areas, such as Leban, such as Dimitrovgrad, such as Mali Zvornik. Of course, up until a few years ago, it was unimaginable, it was impossible. First of all, it was necessary to provide for preconditions, quality travel infrastructure, quality municipal infrastructure, quality electrical infrastructure, which was largely achieved in previous years by state leadership, government and president of the Republic. The Serbian Progressive Party is leading a policy that seeks to provide the same or approximately the same living conditions for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, wherever they live. The next step in this direction is to realise the project that we are discussing today, therefore, the project of building broadband infrastructure in rural areas. Therefore, in rural areas, where operators had no economic interest, the state will build a broadband infrastructure where focus will primarily be on schools as access points, from which households that had not been able before will be connected due to the distance of these settlements from urban areas. In the first phase, 500 schools in rural areas will be connected to the existing broadband network, hence to the internet with a fast flow of data, and further to schools as access points will connect in the first phase around 80,000 households. This is very important for our rural environments, especially for education in these parts, because in this way we will allow for a better quality teaching process in these schools, but also for the realization of remote teaching, which we have seen how important it is in these difficult pandemic times of the coronary virus. In this way the same or at least the same conditions for education will have children in both Belgrade and Kopalnik and Zlatibor and Novi Sad, etc. What is also very important is that the development of broadband networks will have a major impact on improving the everyday quality of people's lives, affecting the realisation of daily activities, and we hope that to some extent it will affect the rest of the population in its villages, so in rural areas, that if we do not prevent it, we will at least slow down the outflow of the population from rural areas. In the first phase, this project will cost our country about 18m euros. Dear citizens of Serbia, let's imagine what we could do with the 619m euros that Dragan Gilas stole from the state, stole from the citizens, stole from our children? We could build hundreds of schools, hundreds of school halls, sports courts, miles of roads and highways, provide every household in Serbia with a high-speed data flow, every student, but unfortunately all these potential roads, schools, terrains ended up in more than 50 accounts in 17 countries of the world. Research journalism has come up with data that only on accounts in Switzerland, Mauricias, Hong Kong, Dragan Gilas owns more than 10m euros. I wonder what will happen to an honest man for whom Dragan Gilas 50 bills are issued in 17 countries of the world, several offshore companies, if the media are not some illegal action, if the media is not an attempt to hide some clues, if the media are not some kind of malfeasance. Weeks ago, Dragan Gilas worked hard, persuading Serbian citizens that he didn't even have bills in Switzerland or in Mauritius, then, miraculously, it turned out that there were no bank accounts in the two countries, but even in 17 countries, and the question is whether it was a final number. I hope, I am deeply convinced, that our competent authorities, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Tax Administration, will investigate the details of what was going on and how, in what way and above all whether it is illegal, and based on the fact that investigative journalism has taken place, there have obviously been illegal actions, or above all, when it comes to tax evasion. It is now clear to the citizens of Serbia why Dragan Gilas is not allowed to have a polygraph, because you know who is not allowed on the polygraph, the one who is lying, who is hiding something. There's no third reason, and that's okay, man knows he's hiding something, he doesn't want to do a polygraph, we respect it. But it's not right, and this is the time I would express my astonishment, my dismay at the relationship between Dragan Gilas and the journalists, according to the journalists who are inappropriate to him, or, as he says, who do not satisfy his conditions or in translation those who are not on his payroll. On this occasion, I will provide maximum support for journalist Andrijana Nesic and the entire "Evening News" research team to continue to endure in this job they started, because Serbian citizens deserve to know the truth. I'm telling Dragan Gilasu that it's past the time when they burned RTS, he and his click, or the team he was part of. It was a time when they beat up the then general director of RTS Dragoljub Milanovic. Time has passed, and the state authorities will no longer allow incursions to public media service saws just for reasons they don't like reporting to journalists. When it comes to this bill, of course, like all my colleagues, I will support it, especially because it will give an additional impulse to recover our most endangered villages, an additional impulse to try to keep young people in their seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4335	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4336	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, for the Serbian Progressive Party, for the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, the equality of all citizens, both children, young, adults and old people in all segments of life is a priority of all priorities and that is what SNS has been working on all these years. Investment in education for SNS, government and President Aleksandr Vukic is an investment in the development and progress of society. Equal conditions for every student's education, regardless of whether it's a student from Belgrade, whether a student from a hill-mounted village, in the Sjenica area, in the area of Priboj, in the vicinity of Nova Varoshi is quite the same. Every child and every student must have equal chances of access to education and education in accordance with their abilities and their potentials. The 20th century is a century of digitization and a century of the Internet. The 20th century is also a century that will be based on knowledge, innovation and an economy based on knowledge and innovation. It is also the aim of the SNS, the goal of our government and the goal of President Alexander Vukic. The project is extremely important for improving education and for the availability of children's education in villages, but it is also important from the aspect of equal regional development, both those citizens in cities and those in rural areas. Here I would like to reiterate the mountain-mounted villages, especially villages located in the border areas of the Republic of Serbia with neighbouring countries. This, of course, means a better chance for young people to stay in the country, not to empty our villages, for young people to find a chance for their survival and employment right where they were born, on their hearth and where their roots are. This loan contract will also allow farmers from rural areas to have a much larger market for the sale of their groceries, or for the sale of what they offer on the market, sometimes in the markets, and now they can have a much larger market, precisely because of the internet. This law and this loan will contribute and develop tourism potentials because we know that Serbia is especially in its rural areas and how rich the country is when it comes to tourism potentials, cultural and historical monuments and our heritage. What I must point out is that since the time of Alexander Vukic, when he was prime minister in 2014 and how she worked on establishing a strategy for the digital development of society but also later, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic has just as one of the goals led to further digitisation and capture of the fourth industrial revolution, which finally also showed that Serbia was almost the only country in Europe that, thanks to the electronic teaching, had not had one, the only hour of lost teaching. I have to point out that the government has done a lot in the construction of scientific and technological parks. They were also built in Belgrade, both in Novi Sad and Nis, and in Cačka. I have to say, it's done a lot to improve the quality of life of an ordinary citizen through electronic administration, through a system that allows every parent, for example, to enroll a child in the first grade of primary school, not by going to school, but by using digital services. Also, as regards the birth of a child, the application of birth certificates, the application of residences for children, enrolment in kindergartens and so on. I want to point out that this government has inherited terribly difficult conditions, school conditions, and here I mean objects, school facilities almost in all places, especially in places that are beyond Belgrade. Dragan Gilas, a robber and tycoon of people's couples, the one who robbed the Republic of Serbia's budget by a billion and 200m euros, the one who hid his money in accounts in 17 foreign countries, kidnapped by Serbian citizens, left schools to students such that they had Polish toiletries and squatters, or toilets. All these years, it's been about rebuilding education infrastructure. The government has worked hard and responsibly and I must say that in the municipality from which I come to Priboj, two schools and this OS "Desanka Maksimović" and machine electrical engineering school thanks to the investments of the government, i.e. the Office for Public Investment Management, 600 million dinars were given so that these schools today could be praised for having the best conditions not only in Priboj but almost and throughout Serbia, and besides, the Government has done much to equip and upgrade and preschool institutions, the "Neven" kindergarten in the old part of the city, and such facilities as in Priboj are of course throughout Serbia. I must also point out that it is on the digitalisation plan and how much it has been done during the Kovida-19 pandemic, which is the opening of the State Data Centre in Kragujevac, which is the largest electronic database that our citizens, states and businesses can use. I must say that there is a first platform for the development of artificial intelligence at which the Republic of Serbia tends. The Republic of Serbia, in line with the "Serbia 2025" plan, advocates that young, educated people with new knowledge and new experiences remain in their country and that it is even stronger to launch the economic wheel of history and Serbia forward. The fact that the Vienna Institute of International and Economic Relations has published a study in addition to the fact that 90,000 young people have returned to Serbia by the age of 24, means people who have completed college and who have seen their chance to return to the country of Serbia, because they see the future in the country of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4337	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear guests at today's session, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I support this bill that only confirms the need for the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic to take care of each part of Serbia. Once, in 2012 and 2013, we had 44 undeveloped municipalities in Serbia, and now they are far less. Why? Thanks to the good work of the Serbian government, by investing in all sectors, especially as regards the sector concerning this bill, with regard to digitalisation, investment in the IT sector, investment in education, investment in science, Serbia is developing. If it hadn't been for investment in the IT sector, the question of how online teaching would take place today for all primary and secondary school students who continued online because of Corona, and the question how would citizens throughout Serbia be informed about all the important things and about the fight against the crown of the virus and all the important news. Speaking of fighting the crown of the virus and good news, it is certainly good news that new 100,000 doses of Sputnik vaccine from our friendly Russia arrived in the afternoon in Belgrade. It will arrive between April 5th and April 10th and a new million vaccines from China. So it just confirms how much the state of Serbia invests in fighting the crown of the virus. I want to give this opportunity to give an excellent example of Israel, which when it reached a percentage of over 60% of the people who received the vaccine and the renaissance, so both doses, were abolished by every single hospital ward. An appeal for all citizens – who has not been vaccinated, urgently to be vaccinated, for in our history, the whole world has been saved by personal hygiene and clean water and vaccines. However, while the Republic of Serbia is fighting the crown of the virus, while we are here fighting to adopt another great bill on investment in infrastructure regarding the IT sector across Serbia, both in urban and rural parts, we have been struck by the opposition, by the former regime, by Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak. Mr. Vladimir Lucic's last address also tells him how nervous Solak is. Solak went wild, Solak cannot forgive that Telecom Serbia has not failed. Solak and Gilas can't forgive that SBB is not the only leader. They cannot forgive Serbia's development. So Solak and Gilas have shown great anxiety about the latest data, which I am very pleased with, as well as my fellow MPs, that a state-owned company such as Telecom Serbia has reached 50% of the market, of which more than 50% of the online market participation and about 50% of the market participation in television. As soon as Telekom starts to develop, as soon as the state starts to strengthen, they immediately become tycoons and those criminals who are also against Alexander Vukic, both against the Serbian government and against everything that is state. On this occasion, I would like to point out one more thing about the Internet and make a call to the competent state institutions to especially account for the safety of children on the Internet. Unfortunately, we are witnessing these situations that children are often abused online, that in several cases their safety, both for their children in Serbia and for those who criticise Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak. On this occasion, at the very end of my presentation today, I would like to give full support to all of those, starting with Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, via Sinisha Malo, Serbian Progressive Party presidency member, Ms Vladka Malovic and all those media, and all of my fellow MPs who have been telling the truth in the past days and only the truth about the tycoon's activities, his accounts in Mauricias, Switzerland and who knows all of which countries. A man has become a true world traveler. I don't know how he gets around all his accounts. So whoever is talking about crime, organised and commercial crime of Dragan Gilas and millions of money in his accounts, is immediately exposed to the worst possible attacks. Of course, I would also like to welcome what our colleague Adam Šukalo has conveyed, from the session of the Administrative Committee, because I believe that Mr. Aleksandar Martinović, Mrs. Sandra Christmas, Mr. Vladimir Orlic, as well as many of my fellow Members, all my fellow Members from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – are doing their job honestly and honestly for our children, and they are blaming Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak, their media and their associates, just because they are telling the truth. The truth about what? Their crime. That's why I support this bill. I am very glad that today, in this modern age, the Internet has a big role to play, has a big role in reading and reading, hearing and seeing everything and another 619m euros in Dragan Gilas, of course, not on most portals and media, because a good part of the media, i.e. Most of them controlled by Gilas and Šolak, we can see everything about organised crime and read Velje Belivuk, those who were or were in state structures, we can read all about criminal activities and Marinika Tepic and Vuk Jeremic and again Gilas. Every day, I will mention Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak, until they are processed, until they comply with the law and until that money has been taken from Serbian citizens back into Serbia's budget, returned to those of whom he was abducted. You can only imagine, my dear citizens and dear fellow Members of the People, present guests what could have been done in Serbia as regards investment in infrastructure, in IT structure, not with 619 million, but with 61m euros, and with 619m euros could have been built and kilometers of highways, and new hospitals, and schools, and kindergartens, and invested in our children, and in science, and in education, and in the IT sector, and in the economy. Therefore, on this occasion, I am giving full support to both the proposed law and the voting day, and I will support this law, while at the same time providing full support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and to President Aleksandr Vukic, and to all my fellow Members of the people mentioned who are congratulating, courageous and just fighting for better Serbia, for the future for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4339	Thank you. The remaining time for the 37-minute parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Milica Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4340	The Honorable Chairman, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the politics of the Serbian Progressive Party and President Aleksandr Vukic has always been based on the even regional development of all parts of our country. The goal is that every city, every municipality and every village has developed, both travel and water-based health infrastructure, has become feasible. In addition to all these basic conditions for life, in accordance with the time and development of telecommunications, today is one of the basic needs and the existence of a broadband internet, in all parts of our country. Unlike developed cities and municipalities where it already exists, rural areas are unfortunately lagging behind. That is why today we have an agreement that, after its adoption, will allow as many as 500 schools and public institutions in rural parts of Serbia to be covered by a broadband internet. The schools will be places from which the internet network will expand further to 80,000 surrounding households. This will certainly facilitate student access to digital education, and on the other hand, access to citizens by electronic services. How important it is that the Internet network is made available to every citizen of our citizens and this crown period, when almost all activities can be carried out via the Internet network. The development of the digitisation of society and the economy the government of the Republic of Serbia has worked on over the past few years will certainly help us to overcome all the root challenges. Our country may be the only country in Europe where students haven't lost a day of school due to the pandemic of the Corona virus, because we started investing in digital education in time. If we hadn't just been successful in this field of speech and information that we were the first in Europe by the number of reaccinated citizens, and we certainly couldn't have done so with the responsible policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we did not create stable finances thanks to which we were able to obtain and pay even four types of vaccines. Internet availability in schools in rural areas will certainly improve the quality of work and teaching, improve student networking and generally improve the quality of everyday life of young people in the country. In addition, it will certainly contribute to the further development of rural areas, the integration of economic regions, the creation of some new jobs, and, perhaps most importantly, to the development of rural areas and the rest of the country's population. President Aleksandar Vukic and his team have been working intensively to improve the conditions of life in the country since they came to power. In addition to hundreds of kilometers of newly built roads, alongside new schools and reconstructed schools and infirmarys, it has been implemented over the past few years and a large number of subsidies that are of great importance to all farmers and those who want to start their production in the country. Last year alone, as many as 3,000 young farmers received subsidies from the state for the purchase of new machinery, for the purchase of fruit material and for the launch of start-ups. Four new competitions for incentives for farmers will also be launched this year, as well as for the purchase of machinery, the purchase of tractors, livestock, fruit and vegetables, as well as for beekeeping. What is really important is the importance of investing in young people in rural areas when I saw myself a dozen days ago, together with my fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, in the municipality of Knić, where we met young people who, although very young, had a desire and motivation to stay on their land, to start their production successfully and to decide to build their future there. We work for them and their generations, we fight for them, and they give us the strength to step out of all these attacks that are suffered daily by President Alexander Vukic, and with him by many other senior SNS officials. The attacks by those who, while in power thanks to your money, dear citizens, managed to buy hundreds of properties and fill numerous bank accounts in various exotic destinations. Those who have failed to create even the basic existential needs for life, today know that they are attacking us and that they honor all the successes Serbia has managed to achieve by coming President Vukic to power, but what gives us the strength and will to move forward, that even more determined and combatable are the results and support that you citizens gave us in the June elections last year when the Serbian Progressive Party reached over 60% of your votes. Such results have just led us to the responsible leadership of the state, effective planning and management of public policies. Our only interest is citizens, our children and their future. Of such a policy, the Serbian Progressive Party and President Aleksandar Vukic will never step down, and what is most important, they will never trade with that interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4341	Thank you. The group's remaining time is 30 minutes. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4342	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Orlic, a respected minister with associates, my colleagues and colleagues, spoke about this law all day today. Let me say something left by the party Dragan Gilas, formerly and presently, so that we can understand what the Serbian Progressive Party led by Alexander Vukic has done over the past seven years. In 2012, Djilasova, Tadic and Jeremic's party left us a country that was economically, industrialally and infrastructureally devastated. They left us a country without the safety and security of its citizens. They left us a land that was totally humiliated. They left us a country with no plans and no programs. They left us a country with no hope or faith for its citizens in a better future. They left us a country with too much responsibility. They left us a land of destroyed state institutions. They left us a country with no international reputation. They left us a land where the people were completely Satanized. They've left us a country where robbery privatisations were conducted. They left us a country with a completely destroyed army, and then in 2012, the Serbian Progressive Party came in, and especially when it became Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic was created a programme, an exposé that we often talked about here with precise tasks, which meant the accelerated modernisation of Serbia, and these are the reforms we talked about here very often. The loan law, the respected Vice-President of the Assembly, contributes to the process of Serbia's accelerated modernisation and our rural environments. When we talked about using the Internet in the last term and getting into schools, our political opponents laughed at this high house and said it would never work. The law will also contribute to improving teaching and schools in rural areas. It will contribute to a balanced economic development. It will contribute to improving the entire infrastructure and remaining young people in the country. Dear citizens of Serbia, honourable Members of the people, what did the former government leave us, and what did we, led by Alexander Vukic, do? Built infrastructure, schools, hospitals, business facilities, etc. Dragan Gilas had no need for such a thing, so he filled his accounts. He robbed not 619 million euros, God knows how many. Since my colleagues have talked a lot about it, I'm just going to ask a few questions to Dragan Gilas, who is probably watching this transmission. Dragan Gilas, is it true, and it is true that we are informed by the press, especially "Evening News", that on 12.12.2020, you had 5,730,000 euros in one of your firm's two accounts at Deutsche Bank in Mauritius? Look at the wonders, the media under the control of Dragan Gilas, a sign, they shut down that bank, but he opened up a new one and transferred the money. What are you not saying, gentlemen of the press under the control of Dragan Gilas? Is it true, and as the Evening News and the Second Press inform us, on December 12, 2020, you had 620,147 euros on the account of the "Sosite Generale" branch in Zurich? What's very important, is it true what they're hiding, what I'm going to ask, is the media under the control of Dragan Gilas, and it's true how the Evening News informs us that the account users were the brothers Gilas, Gojko and Dragan? I repeat once again that they hear the newspaper well under the control and the press under the control of Dragan Gilas - is it true, and it is true that we are informed, that the authorised account users were Dragan and Gojko Gilas? Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Gilas, on his behalf, has five accounts of who knows how many million euros. That's the money that was robbed by Serbian citizens while he was mayor. That's important. That's why we need to examine the financial-mafia connection between Solak and Gilas. Respected citizens, the profits of Gilas's companies grew in time when he was in power, especially while he was mayor of Belgrade, while the city of Belgrade was financially sinking. Gilas has 3.3m euros in Hong Kong's account. Look at the wonders, respected citizens, we talked about Hong Kong in the last term two, three years ago. That's where his party colleague Vuk Jeremic met with Patrick Ho. The two made one of the largest international gangs of bandits and money-launderers with Tidia Gadija. That's why we need to examine the connection through Hong Kong, Gilas and Jeremic. Dragan Gilas is listed as account user, underlining, as account user. He refused the polygraph. He's been pulling this money out of Serbia in 15 countries, known so far, and who knows how much. I underline it once again, in the financial resources of Serbian citizens, your respected citizens, he dragged them into those destinations. Gilas, a respected citizen, cheats and lies on us every day. He has not only in Mauritius, Switzerland and who knows which destinations in 17 countries over 50 accounts. That is why media attacks on President Vukic are becoming more intense by the performance of tycoon-mafian political groups and individuals and some charlatan analysts, whether domestic or foreign. Respected Serbian citizens, they have only one goal, which is to bring down President Aleksandar Vukic and stop the accelerated process of modernising Serbia, knowing that Alexander Vukic is the engine of an accelerated process of modernising the Republic of Serbia. As the president of the state, Aleksandar Vucic, returns daily from certain places within the country, where he is promoting and building our country in economic terms and passing Serbia's international reputation around the world, implementing peace policy, solidarity policy, a policy of accelerated progress in these difficult pandemic conditions, until then tycoon Dragan Gilas, and for Europe, Gilas, as a bastard, is doing everything he can to preserve his poisonous millions of euros in accounts in Mauritius, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Bulgaria and God knows what destinations. The Serbian Progressive Party headed by the president will fight to defeat the mafia regardless of religion, nation and party membership. Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, in voting day, as well as my colleagues from the SNS will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4343	Thank you. The word has a national MP Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4344	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is ahead of us with a proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for a project to build broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This law enables the construction of communication infrastructure in the rural areas of the Republic of Serbia. This is a strategic project aimed at building non-existent infrastructure, all to connect all public institutions and primary schools to a broadband network and surrounding households. Before the implementation of this project was launched, the RES carried out a comprehensive analysis of the needs of this project and during 2017, the Ministry of Resolution carried out an analysis of the situation. The conclusion is that there are more than half a million households in the Republic of Serbia that do not have access to a broadband optical network. It is also concluded that there is no economic interest of operators to develop infrastructure and to connect to a broadband network of public institutions. The results of the analyses carried out have shown that it is necessary for the state to take incentive measures in order to build infrastructure in the rural areas of Serbia and thus allow for a balanced development of all areas of our Republic. I think it is essential to talk about the importance of Internet accessibility in the 21st century, especially in the current situation, in the pandemic caused by the coronary virus, and how much this will generally have to do with the development of all parts of the Republic of Serbia, because nowadays every job that allows it to go online. This is very important if we consider that the accent is primarily on connecting primary schools to a broadband optical network. Today, teaching is done online, and the issue of Internet access should not even exist. The Internet would have to be accessible to every citizen. Speaking of schooling, what is the significance of modern technology today? In addition to the online course, I must point out that Belgrade will be among the first cities to provide basic school students with tablets from 1st to 4th grade, provide access to the Internet and textbooks in the electronic version. We try to give each citizen an equal chance of development, not taking into account whether he lives in a circle of two or in suburban settlements, whether he lives in the capital of the Republic of Serbia or in some rural area of our country. Speaking of Belgrade, were we able to afford textbooks before our students? We could have, but former mayor Dragan Gilas wasn't interested. His interest was exclusively personal, his personal wealth to the detriment of all of us. Dragan Gilas went into politics as someone who was not a particularly wealthy man, and from politics, after a few years, came out with accounts in Switzerland, with accounts in Hong Kong, in Mauritius, with companies in Holland, Luxembourg, but this is only part of what we know is what Dragan Gilas owns. The question is, what does this man have today? We in Belgrade didn't get free textbooks for our children, but we got the most expensive bridge in the world. We didn't get free textbooks, but we got a replica of Theazi which today serves as a mockery in Belgrade. We did not ask for underground containers, nor Spanish trams, nor many of the suspicious projects Dragan Gilas carried out, and he only performed them so that he could transfer another euro from the state budget to his private accounts. Belgrade lost a lot while Dragan Gilas was mayor and Belgrade citizens are most aware of it, and they know it best. Dragan Gilas won a lot when he was mayor. He got an increase in personal capital by over a thousand times, got millions in tax dollars. In the end, he turned off the light in the DS, but he bought himself a new political party, where now employees from his firms represent as opposition politicians. On their public ballots "Today" and Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic and Borko Stefanovic and many others, whom Dragan Djilas is paying for our money, are constantly talking against us and against the authorities, and all because of the acquisition of cheap political points, in order to regain power, because they view the state functions as the only chance for personal wealth. I will vote in the day, along with my colleagues, support the set of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4345	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4346	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, the bill that provides for this contract and everything we are talking about today cannot be seen as a loan, a loan, a loan, can't be viewed as a mere bill or viewed as simple finances, as someone is trying to present today and not in this room, and I believe that previous MPs, colleagues who spoke before me, explained to detail everything that is being done here. I think the real term used here is investment, investment in our country, investment in our children, investment in Serbia's future. If you take into account that we are talking about digitisation today, talk about the fast internet, if you take into account that we are talking about the Internet today that will be available in the rural area, and if we talk about that 500 schools will later get the internet to 80,000 households, see how much our country has advanced today. Many times we were able to hear the conditions of teaching attended by children in a rural area. I used to bring pictures of schools in Belgrade. So, not schools around Serbia, or as some people like to say -- in remote parts of Serbia. Unfortunately, you had schools in Belgrade that were without a toilet by 2016, 2017 or 2018, the children used Polish toilets. You've had such a situation and to build a school that doesn't get a building permit. You've had schools like this. These are schools that were built at the time of Dragan Gilas. This just shows how much our country has advanced in every respect and sense and how much we don't think about some basic needs for our students right now, but we're promoting, we're going in step with Europe and with the world. The Internet is something that has become an inevitable thing today in the very sense, whether it's business, whether it's about shopping, whether it's about learning, and simply if you want to step up to Europe and the world, you have to rule at least some basic knowledge, and it's about the Internet. When you invest in your children, when you invest in students, when you invest in someone who has yet to inherit all of us, that's how you invest in the future. We are proud that the list of the Serbian Progressive Party was called "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children". These are concrete moves which, despite many so far, show how we plan and want to fight for the future and Serbia, but primarily our children. Because it's a waste of our land and everything we do and we build roads, new schools, health homes, what we build bridges, what we develop and travel infrastructure and everything we develop in our country, and we increase wages, if there's no one in our country to stay. Thank God for the responsible policy and for the big push, and above all for President Aleksandr Vukic and the Serbian Government, so the outflow of young people is slowing down. You see data showing all relevant institutions, that we have the largest inflow of young people returning to their country, highly educated people returning to Serbia, because they finally see the future in their country. When we talk about all these things, we cannot look back – and what is it that brought these young people six, seven, or eight years ago into a situation to get out of our country? They had to leave because their parents were out of work. The Democratic Party's policy, decorated today in Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, is responsible for why 500,000 people are out of work, why half a million people are out of work. When thousands of factories closed down, citizens couldn't know if they'd have to pay food in the next month or two, let alone think about whether they'd pay the bills. By 2012 and 2013, Serbia was on the verge of an economic ambition. We were thinking about whether or not we'd have a place to pay off our pensions. Don't let me remind you that both salaries and pensions were paid out of credit, to remind you that our economy was threatened by the scenario, some at that time called it the Greek scenario, where you were recorded in front of bankruptcy. And all this because someone didn't want to deal with the job that the citizens chose him for, and all because someone thought it was more important from the future of Serbia and Serbia's citizens that he provided extra income for himself and made himself a very rich man. Today we were also able to hear the great presentations of my colleagues who pulled out a clear parallel and what we could do, whether for the 619m euros that Dragan Gilas made to his companies, and for God's sake what we could make for these nine million euros that appeared in three accounts, only three accounts that Dragan Gilas has in Mauricias, Hong Kong and Switzerland. What I, as a folk MP, who, like all of us here, have been chosen by the citizens, is particularly troubled by this relationship, by someone who was in power, who doesn't have a single result except for these minus results and all of this disaster that the Democratic Party regime has left behind, I am particularly interested in what these people are thinking today new to offer to the citizens and do they really think that Serbian citizens have such short memories that they have already forgotten who brought them to the edge of poverty and who brought them into the situation that as long as Serbian citizens fail, they are only personally rich. I can't even look back today at the fact that we witnessed a bad performance, a weak act, and a terrible scenario, that this same Dragan Gilas today filed criminal charges against people who were just telling the truth. He brought all of his 20 supporters to stand behind him and applaud him every time he insults one of the journalists, to applaud him when he thinks he's scored, and so to his boss who pays them, because we all know that Marinika Tepic is employed in his company, so that they all give some kind of wind in the back and try to wave their leaders' wings, so that he feels safer. When you take a closer look at that conference, except for the continuation of insulting journalists, the misrepresentation of anyone who asked him a question, you can see nothing more than one frightened man, crushed with truth, arguments that no longer know which way to keep it from the truth that came to the surface and that he will now finally admit that he lied when all the evidence says he has bills on Mauricias both in Hong Kong and Switzerland. I'll just remind you that about seven or eight days ago, he also said he didn't have those bills, so he said there's not a single account in a foreign country, in another country, and now he's changing his story slowly, so he admits that he has a firm in Switzerland, that there's an account, and that same company has an account in Hong Kong. For Serbian citizens, there are more than fivem euros of money in Mauritius, in Switzerland more than 600,000 euros, in Hong Kong more than threem euros. Only in those three accounts does he have over nine million euros and the citizens rightly wonder if the money is the one that was taken from them and when they have poored, is there a dinar or some euro of that money in these accounts? Unfortunately, when journalists ask him the most normal question, can he confirm what he thinks they are, according to his criteria, investigative journalists, so when they ask him if he trusts them, and trusts them as he says, can he explain to us why in 2018 the source he trusted admitted to having 25m euros in real estate alone? So that's not what I said. No one has said this from the SNS parliamentary group, but as a candidate, Dragan Gilas then applied for his property, which by simple calculation if you take into account the square and price of the square, as well as the number of properties he has, is estimated at more than 25m euros. You can't get an answer to that question. The second question he asked, which was also left without an answer, is the fact that he can now confirm to us and admit that he owned or owned 26 companies during that period? So imagine someone who was mayor, who put 74 or 75 000 euros in politics, the wife's house and a car used by the SAB, after eight years with this much wealth. As representatives of the SNS, we were particularly looking forward to the Property Origin Act, which came into force on 12 March. I believe this law will help all Serbian citizens finally see and get concrete information about how this comes from failed entrepreneurs, gum sellers and some window washer comes to the richest man in this part of Europe. As for us from the SNS, as President Aleksandar Vukic said more than once, he will be the first to stand in line for this check, because unlike Dragan Gilas and the whole bolument gathered around the Democratic Party was at that time, Aleksandar Vucic was the only one to be led, and today he is also guided by the interests of Serbian citizens and not for one single euro richer than he had when he entered politics. This can easily be confirmed and established. It's hypocritical when for weeks, months and years back, Alexander Vukic and his family are criminalizing themselves, when we're all witnesses of numerous lies, lies, when we're talking about his brother as some kind of tycoon, when they accuse him of owning both this and that and some property and some fields and chains of bakers and distinguished restaurants, and when all this turns out to be a lie, you don't hear any excuses. That Alexic, the errand boy Vuk Jeremic, accused him of having ties with him and Aleksandar Vukic in the "Jovanjica" affair. When it turns out that the liars have not heard any excuses, Alexic announces some kind of "Jovanjic 2". You're just wondering, how long will it take? When Aleksandar Vucic comes out and says publicly that he agrees to a polygraph and agrees with all 50 possible questions that Dragan Gilas or anyone, any polygraph to take, wherever at any time, you don't hear from the other side – here we are, on the polygraph, but Dragan Gilas is cheating today – I won't do the polygraph. If you're clean, if you're telling the truth and if you think this is all a lie, if you think the arguments are on your side, why don't you come out and say, "I agree to a polygraph and take away any doubt from you and your name?" You'll never do it because you know it's true yourself and because you yourself know that you're the position of mayor, director of some kind of office, but you've generally used your political career only to get rich. For the very end, dear minister, I hope that you, as Government, will bring before us the next responsible policy of Alexander Vukic MPs even more constructive and for the general benefit of the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia of the bill. I am convinced that this way we will prove that SNS policy is exactly what we are called a list, which is - for our children, for generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4347	Thank you. Since the list of speakers is no longer registered, do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Minister, would you like a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4348	Dear President, honourable MPs, I just want to thank you for today's extremely constructive debate and once again to thank all the exhibitors for supporting this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-23-0.u4349	Thank you. Since there are no more entries on the lists, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm concluding a unique search. Let me thank Minister Tatjana Matic and her associates for participating in today's session. Once again, let me say to the end that, of course, it is an extremely important topic that shows how important the role of the responsible state is for and evenly the region I must once again remind myself that in a time ago many operators were getting work permits, so-called. "licences", but it did not occur to anyone to ask them to invest in certain non-profit areas, and it was logical that some foreign operators who received licences had an obligation to invest in exactly these areas where it might not be economically cost-effective. It all eventually falls on the burden of the state. That is why the role of the state is important, and it is also important that this investment plan exists. In that sense, we as the National Assembly, of course, support all of these projects and based on what President Vukic said and on what you said in the Expose of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm concluding a unique search. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members to insert your cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that, at this time, 107 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it is March 24th, I would like to ask you and I would like to invite you to pay tribute to all the victims of the NATO pact's criminal aggression on the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for a moment of silence. Let it be their glory. We can forgive, but we can't forget. Thank you. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Aco Petrovic. We continue to work and move on to a single search on the second item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Decision 1/2019, the Joint Committee of 31 July 2019 replacing Annex I of the multilateral Agreement between the European Community and its countries, members of the Republic of Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the Mission of the UN Interim Administration in Kosovo (in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999) on the establishment of a common European aviation area. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the meetings were invited to attend Tomislav Momirović, Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Veljko Kovacevic, Deputy Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, and Mirjana Cizarov, Director of the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a unique search of this bill. Proposer representative, Minister Momirovic. Here you go.
