ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-10-0.u11415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 13th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 149 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure, I shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure and exceptional for Friday, i.e. other than those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft law in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2021. That's what I put in point one of the proposed agendas, if we accept this proposal. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: for – 159, it did not vote - three, total – 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Ten National MPs of the National Assembly proposed that the emergency procedure be put on the agenda – a motion for a resolution on the Ustasha genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma in the independent state of Croatia from 1941 to 1945, which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 December 2021. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am stopping the vote: for – 21, it did not vote – 148, total – 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I'm putting the Rules of Procedure to vote on a draft agenda, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: for – 167, it did not vote – two, a total – 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the 13th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, which was submitted by the Government. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that they are invited to attend the meetings of Marija Obradovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Maja Macužić Puzic, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Milan Culjkovic of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government. I welcome them. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) When it comes to the lists of MPs, only Vladan Glisic is on the list. Mr. Glissic, would you like a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-10-0.u11416	Thank you. The law was good, and the motions for change are good. Of course, it's not good enough, so I won't vote for it, because I think the referendum quorum or the referendum censorship is something very important for the legitimacy of democratic decisions. The referendum census is not here, although the people of "Transparency of Serbia" have also made objections to oversaw the signature, in some ways in application it will be problematic because the applicants will not be able to make more folk initiatives, i.e. referendum proposals sent. The problem is that those who give lists are electronically privileged compared to those who do it physically. Of course, it is a good thing that the authorised legislators who propose a referendum will be in the bodies following the referendum process. It is also good that there are four years after which you cannot do the opposite of the people's will expressed in a referendum. We're missing, of course, a referendum census, because it's just not... Italy itself, which also has a referendum censorship, did not accept the Venice Commission's opinion and did not lift the referendum censorship. In the EU, we have Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, which also have a referendum censorship. We have Slovenia, we have Italy. Their referendum census is as hard as ours in the old law - 50% plus one came out, while Romania and Lithuania have a referendum census of 30% and 33%, respectively. So it's not necessary that we follow the direction of the Venice Commission, but it's very necessary to ensure the legitimacy of our referendum decisions, so in that sense, I think there was a space to include a referendum census that couldn't be this hard when it comes to changing the law. Fifty percent of the voters went out plus one voter is a really hard referendum censorship, but it is understandable, because we need it because you are all aware of the pressures on our country and the pressures to change the constitution, especially in the part of the preamble where Kosovo and Metohija are mentioned as an integral part of Serbia, and in some ways this is the last line of defense that even when they press the political class they will not be able to implement it in the people. We have so far had the pressures of foreign embassies, but to be clear, not any foreign embassies, but the embassy of the political west, and now we have the pressures of their corporations. That's why the referendum census is needed as a defense, so they can't carry out everything they can through the political class. These are mostly reasons why I cannot vote today for such a change, and what I want to tell you independently is that, above all, friends from the SNS, this is not a defeat of the SNS, neither is the Serbian president. It's a good thing you listened to the voice of the people and were ready to show that your great party could act in the interests of the entire community and bring down tensions. However, it is a kind of defeat for you at the SNS MP's club, but I don't want to take it out and declare the winners and defeated, I just want to remind you that many of the things that I bring here as objections to the drafts of the law, because as an independent MP, I don't have a follow-up service and I organise everything myself, and that is why I can't provide the very quality of work that an MP who has a parliamentary club and a follow-up service can do. I'm telling you something that I'm willing to say in public and I'm not ashamed of. A lot of things I find out from a friend of the SNS in the towers. Many of you have very smart and good criticism of what once the government pushes quickly and it is my call to you to respect party discipline less, and to be more representatives of the people, because you will do much more for your party and for Serbia, as well as for the president of Serbia. I would like to commend people like Gjorge Komlenski, who gave me a proposal on a degree-of-censor and 15 plus one percent for the local level and 30 plus one for the Vojvodina Statute, for example, organic laws and, of course, 50 plus one percent for the Serbian Constitution's defence. I would like to commend Mr Radislav Jugovic, who had the courage to say that it was not for Rio Tinto, to criticise the decision of the board of the Serbian Progressive Party in Loznica to give a plan of space that is currently changing, where the dump would be in the Jadar River valley and I would like to say that there are proposals from other people who are now making a constitutional movement, who will simply want to prevent that requirement from being separated from their people and their national representatives only in Serbia. Thus, let's say that Ms. Milice Djurdjevic's team, Stamenkovski, proposed that the censorship be such that the referendum request be adopted the moment most of the voters went to vote for him, but if most of the voters enrolled in that area go to the referendum. It's a milder version of what we have now. So there's a whole spectrum of things that we can adopt and not be in a situation of confrontation and that we look like a arrogant legislative authority and that, in that sense, I take responsibility for perhaps not being a little more aggressive to tell you that this shouldn't be done. In all, this is what Serbia has won, even though you may have lost a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-10-0.u11417	Mr. Glissic, I don't want to be confrontational, but you're out of time. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, head of the parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-10-0.u11418	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a colleague who spoke before me remembered that there should be no party discipline the moment he entered parliament through a political party and then when he became an MP, he realized he should be free. I don't know how moral that is. It is necessary to go out with your list, enter parliament, then be free as much as you will, and enter parliament on the list of a particular political party and then become an MP, and then you will become conscious and conscious of being free, it doesn't seem very moral to me. Since you mentioned the Serbian Progressive Party MP group, and since you mentioned this situation that is current these days in the Republic of Serbia, we had an agreement at the National Assembly College today that no one speak from the presidential groups or any of the MPs, but I answered the word. I may be criticized by my president, but I just don't want some things to remain unclear and you to be right. Here's the thing. I want first of all to say that today many triumph over Alexander Vukic's alleged defeat. Triumfuju Djilas, Jeremic, Tadic, Savo Manojlovic. I see some Croatian media are also triumphant. Yesterday, "The Morning List" announced: The leader lost his first half, thinking, of course, of Alexander Vukic. I'm telling you, Alexander Wolfie didn't lose. Alexander Vukic won. Aleksandar Vukic won because he showed that politics in Serbia can be led in a completely different way than how it was led by the same ones who today celebrate his defeat. So in a different way than politics is guided by Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and similar to them, because he showed that eventually the constitutional duty of the President of the Republic to go to his people, to listen to him, to hear what his troubles are and to try to help that same people. Now I ask, not only you, but I ask all these sinless people, political apostles, who have never sinned in their lives, who have done all things well for the state of Serbia and its citizens, and when have they gone into the people and the people spoken? There have been a lot of difficult situations just since 2000, so we don't go back to those famous 1990s. I will only give you a few examples of when the presidents of the Republic, the Prime Ministers, high-ranking state officials, and how they had the need, had an obligation, to go to the people, so they didn't leave. Has anyone gone into the people and explained to that same people that it was the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in late 2000 that became a new state and sought as a new state admission to the organisation of the UN and thus placed itself in the ranks of states that had secededed in an anti-constitutional way from the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and thus admitted that they were both right in Slovenia and Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia. This happened at the time of Vojislav Kostunica's 2000 term. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the successor state not only of the SFRY, but of the successor state of the Kingdom of Serbia, which created that great Yugoslavia itself, by the move of its president's feather, has brought into the ranks of a Slovenian country that has never existed as an independent state in history. Did one of the presidents of the Republic, did any of the Prime Ministers go to the people and explain how it is possible for three sugars to be sold for nine euros? Has anyone explained to the people the meaning of that robbery privatisation that was conducted in Serbia since 2001, so in the next few years, when we sold out our entire state and social property and when we left it to Alexander Vukic in 2012 a completely ruined state, and when that man had to literally build it on the ground, because nothing was almost there? Has anyone gone into the people, and tried to explain to that same people how it is possible that those who came to power in 2000 managed to destroy the SRJ, to destroy the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, without bearing any responsibility for it? Has anyone gone into the people, and explained to the people how it is possible for the People to declare independence in Kosovo and Metohija in February 2008, and the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, who is giving lessons today and who says that Aleksandar Vukic was defeated, did not go into the people and be with the people, but fled to Romania on that very day? Imagine, no man could choose any other day, but just on February 17th, 2008 to flee to Romania. How could no one have gone into the people to explain to the people the great force of recognised independence of Kosovo and Metohija? None of the ambassadors were expelled, so to explain to the people how it is possible that only two ambassadors were expelled, and that was Ambassador of Montenegro and Ambassador of Macedonia? Imagine the size, imagine the strength, imagine the dignity of these great statesmen, Boris Tadic, and similar to him, banish the Montenegrin ambassador and banish the Macedonian ambassador. Did someone go to the people like Alexander Wolfich did in those Upper Weeks at Loznica? Well, he explained to the people what the purpose of the application was to the International Court of Justice, that the International Court is to justify an advisory opinion on whether the Kosovo Albanian declaration of February 17th 2008 was a declaration of independence, so-called independence. Kosovo in accordance with international law or not, so as to explain to the people what the procedure is before the International Court of Justice. Has Vuk Jeremic, who came to this brilliant idea along with Borko Stefanovic, gone to tell the same Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, in Šumadija, in Vojvodina - the procedure is ladies and gentlemen next, the judge at the International Court of Justice does not vote as he wills, but rather votes in accordance with his country's position and then you take a good look at the list of judges of the International Court of Justice and you see that the absolute majority of the states that have already recognised Kosovo's independence and Metohija? And it was clear to the little child that the decision would be negative for the Republic of Serbia. Well, has anyone deigned to go into the people and explain to the people all the tragedy of that decision that Albanians are calling for today? And today when a representative of the so-called Kosovo comes to the Security Council of the United Nations, it is calling for the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice, requested by Vuk Jeremic, who these days celebrates victory over Aleksandr Vukic because he refused to sign a bill on amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act and because the government has withdrawn him from the procedure. Many today say - Alexander Vukic was supposed to react more sharply, he was supposed to send water cannons, send a gendarme to those who protested, but he, in that way, did not do it again, proved to be different from those who attacked him. Again, he showed that he was different from both Boris Tadic and Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, who did all this to their people. I'll give you an example, on July 29th, 2008 we organized a rally, fully in accordance with the law, reported the rally, reported the directors, was a completely peaceful rally, no windows were broken, no one was injured. No police officers were attacked, no radines were broken. A rally because we wanted to protest the way former Republika Srpska President Radovan Karadzic was arrested. What happens about an hour, an hour and a half after the beginning of a completely peaceful, civilized, in accordance with the law of organized rally? On all sides, we are surrounded by gendarmes and start beating up the crowd, to throw tear gas, and on that occasion a few punches in the stomach also got Alexander Vukic, and unfortunately, Ranko Panic killed her. Ranko Panic was killed by having his skull smashed by a police hen. Now I ask you, who triumph over the defeat of Alexander Vukic, did they ever go to the people, did they go to the mother of Ranko Panic, the man who came from Republika Srpska in 1995, to explain to the mother why her son, who did not attack any police officer, who did not break any windows, who did nothing against the law, but, behold, he found himself at the rally? It bothered the regime at the time led by Boris Tadic, which is why the young man had to be killed. What should Alexander Vukic now do, the same thing that Boris Tadic did, to send the gendarmes to his own people, to send water cannons, to send helicopters, to send those images from the Republic of Serbia that Serbian enemies would like to go? Not pictures of new factories, not images of new days of centers, not pictures of new hospitals, not images of new highways, but images of broken heads, but images of people fighting with police. Such images were supposed to leave Serbia. Now, I guess Alexander Vukic was defeated because he did not allow such a picture of Serbia to go public, but in the world he remained a picture of Serbia as a modern, advanced, civilized country, a country in which the President of the Republic is allowed to go to his people, can hear what pains and troubles of that people and do whatever is possible to help that people. Now let me say something about this conversation in these famous Upper Weeks, I say famous, because every day the most incredible stories are presented about that village, and all in an attempt to disqualify the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic. Alexander Vukitch went to that village. In my personal opinion, it was supposed to be someone from the Serbian government, someone from the local self-government, but well, they weren't, it was him. Sam, as president of the Republic, went to that village and spoke to the citizens of Upper Sunday. But when you analyze the conversation he had with these people, what can you conclude? People have also talked about Rio Tint, have they expressed their concern for the environment, but have you seen the other part, perhaps the bulk of those people's statements - President Vukic, we don't have a factory in our area, make us a new school, make us new ways to get our kids to school on a hard road, not mud, make way for us when they go through the woods, so they don't get bit by by a snake, make us a new bridge so we can cross from one side of the Adriatic? Is Alexander Wolfe responsible for these problems? It's not. Is he going to solve these problems? It will. How can a man who is the President of the Republic be defeated if he has gone to talk to his people, to listen to his torments and troubles that he has not done, but to some previous authorities and who will help that same people. So Alexander Vukic is not defeated. Aleksandar Vukic won because he showed that politics in Serbia can be run in other ways, not from the cabinets, not from the office, but from one real authentic folk policy. So everything for the people, with the people, and what's very important, in the people. Did you have in modern history Serbia and a president of the Republic who had the courage to go into his people, except for the myths that were pre-organized and where did the President of the Republic address his supporters? If a president of the Republic had gone to some municipality, had gone to some village to talk to people, it was not anyone but Alexander Vukic. Therefore, he was not defeated, those who today think they triumphed over Alexander Vukic and his politics and everything that Alexander Vukic does is in fact the opposite of what they would do, absolutely the opposite. They say today -- it's democratic fluid to block the highway, it's an inalienable human right, no one is to look at people who block the highway, so they find even one professor at the Law School who says that a government that doesn't touch any protesters with its finger, no one who has blocked the roads around Serbia has touched it with her finger, let alone a pendejo. They say that the government has committed three violations of the law. Now to remind a little of those who triumph over Aleksandra Vukic, who were in power in 2001, were in power in 2001, or were in power by their party heads. Do they remember the riots of the Special Operations Unit in November 2001 when the unit blocked the Sava Center highway, so an international traffic station, but it didn't block it completely, but one of the tracks worked, and they now blocked it completely. That's when they said -- it's a coup, it's non-democratic, it can't be blocked by an international road, it's a scandal. The Special Operations Unit blocked the highway because these same ones, therefore, are Boris Tadic, Djilas, Jeremic and similar to them and their party heads, told them that they should arrest the Banovic brothers because they are dangerous criminals, and then turned out to be no criminals, but that they are people who were subsequently delivered to The Hague tribunal. Today, those who triumph over Alexander Vukic's alleged defeat were the same ones who fraternised the Special Operations Unit on October 5, 2000, hugged them, photographed them, called each other brother, bathed in their pools, drove their jeeps, used their money, traveled around the white world about their cost, failed to prevent them. Imagine, these great winners, those purest moral, and moral giants, those political apostles who have done nothing wrong in life, who have done everything right, who have the right to salt our brains every day, so they have failed to prevent the death of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic, from being killed in the day after day. The day of today, the same ones are putting their hands on each other who's to blame. Is it more the fault of Zoran Zivkovic, whether it is more the fault of Dusan Mihajlovic, whether he is more guilty of this or that and now they have stood up and said to you - here he is, we beat Alexander Vukic, we beat him by making him go among his people and talking to that people and that he hears from that people what pains and troubles that this people have had, and these torments and troubles have been done by the same ones who today present themselves as the people who have done everything right, who have not made any mistakes in life, have not made any controversial privatisation, no country has broken down, who have not escaped to Romania, therefore, who are saints. All we have left is here in the National Assembly of Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, to enter into some calendar of political saints. They're innocuous people. They did everything great for the state of Serbia. When they all did so great, as it is possible that the people will not, neither will 2012 nor 2014 nor 2016, not even in 2020. They won't. Because they didn't do anything for that people. Alexander Vukitch did a lot of good. All that they haven't done since 2000, and new schools, and new hospitals, and new highways, and hundreds of new factories, and hundreds of thousands of new jobs, all that man over whose defeat they are celebrating today. I didn't, I said, intend to answer my word, because that was the deal, and that was the instruction, but I had to answer what Mr Glisic said because I think he's wrong and because I think Serbia is a lot of hypocrites, that morale, that political honesty is told us by those who have become rich in people's torment and troubles. As the people poored, they became richer and richer from day to day. It makes me sick to remember the name of Dragan Gilasa's party, says the Party of Freedom and Justice. In his time, neither freedom nor justice, but absolute injustice and absolute injustice, but killing Ranko Panic, he stepped on it with a police boot because he had the courage to say not to Boris Tadic's regime. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-10-0.u11419	Since there are no more applications for discussion, before the conclusion, the proposing representative does not want a word. I am concluding a principled review on the draft law amending the Law on referendums and the People's Initiative. According to Article 87(5), Rules of Procedure, I order Friday, December 10th, 2021, starting at 13.00 a.m. as a day for voting on the 13th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 182 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative Before we move on to a decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 1) of Article 105(1) of the Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the referendum and the People's Initiative with the majority of votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the Bill's proposal, we approach the decision on the bill. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I stop voting and declare: total – 193, for – 193. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill in principle. I remind you he's a 6. The draft law amending the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative provides for this law to enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please press the corresponding key. I stop voting and declare: total – 193, for – 193. I find that the National Assembly has unanimously decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have completed our decision on early entry into force, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative in general. Please press the corresponding key. I stop voting and declare: total – 193, for – 193. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the draft law amending the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. As you know, I scheduled the next session for Tuesday at 10.00 hours. Since the National Assembly today has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the 13th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Thank you.
