ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10221	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, I refer my questions to the Ministry of Mining and Energy, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. The first question - when will the construction of the pipeline be completed and when will it be released to work to Novi Pazar and Tutin? The second question -- how long did it take to replace the high-voltage and low-voltage grid in Sandzak space? I planned to ask this question on Thursday, when the government was here, however, since Minister Mihajlovic was not present, I believe the topic is very current and I am asking him today. Why? Minister Mihajlovic during a visit to Priboj, where she opened a new heat plant, promised that gas pipeline construction to Prepolje, Priboj and Nova Varoshi would begin next year. That's the news that made us so happy. I would like to point out that in a coalition agreement between the strongest Bosniak party, the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the strongest party in the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party, the construction of a pipeline to the Sandzah municipalities takes a very important position and I want to say that it is indeed a historic matter for us that for the first time we have had a party and leaders, and that is the leader of our party, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, who, in one coalition agreement, insisted on infrastructure projects, generational projects, such as gas pipeline, not on human resources. The civilization step is that we also had partners from the other side in Belgrade who understood our political need, but also the need for a Sanjay man to have the importance of obtaining some basic conditions for life, such as the pipeline. We can't have big foreign investments and we can't solve the problem of demographics and all the other accompanying problems until we have a functional pipeline, and that's why it's very important that this Assembly, primarily citizens and citizens living in that part of our country, get information when they're being released into the work of the pipeline to Novi Pazar and Tutin? Also, what is very important is that in the budget, as the minister announced, we also plan for the following year to build gas pipelines to Prepolje, Priboj and Nova Varoshi, where business entities and citizens will also get cheaper and better and cleaner energy for their households and for their companies. As for replacing the high voltage and low voltage network, it is also part of an agreement between the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the Serbian Progressive Party. Something was working on the exchange of power during the summer, however, I would like to say that the situation is catastrophic, that the situation is bad, and the low-voltage and high-voltage network is certainly the worst in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the area of the Sandzah municipalities, and we had the situation the first Deputy Prime Minister Ruzic was on an official visit to the town of Novi Pazar and that the city's core had no electricity. So it's autumn, maybe it's a drop of rain, and you can imagine what it's going to be when the snows start to fall on the cave, in the Komaran villages, in Zlatar, etc. So, citizens and citizens certainly won't have an orderly supply of electricity, and again we can't talk about big foreign or domestic investments unless we have an orderly supply of electricity. Therefore, it is essential for a balanced regional development for investments in the area of the Sanjay municipalities to replace a high voltage and low voltage network and is a gasification. When we solve this issue, when we have an orderly supply, when we have better coverage of the network with concrete pillars, that moment we will solve the problem of demographics, but also of investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10222	Thank you. The word is Akosh Ujhelji.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10223	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Serbia is now in a large multi-billion-euro investment cycle aimed at raising the infrastructure to a significantly higher level and becoming an engine for the development of our economy. Motorways, fast traffic, high-speed railways, municipal infrastructure are being built in many municipalities in Serbia. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians supported the second budget rebalancing for 2021, as it provides for additional funds for capital projects, a total of 234 million dinars, allowing for the realisation of capital projects that are of special importance to us, which are the reconstruction and modernisation of the railway line between Subotica and Segedin, whose realisation reduces the retention of border crossings and develops cross-border co-operation. Furthermore, the reconstruction of highway parts between Horgos and Novi Sad, the construction of a highway between Belgrade and Zrenjanin, the construction of a traffic station between Novi Sad and Ruma, the construction of a second phase of a water treatment plant in Kikinda, the improvement of the conditions for the ship's translation of the dam at Tisa near Novi Becej, the construction of an overpass near Pakir via an ipsion of arms. Dear People's MPs, SVM has defined in a coalition agreement with the SNS in addition to the projects mentioned above the most significant projects, travel, rail and water infrastructures that speed up Serbia's infrastructure with the region, thus creating a basis for accelerated economic development and strengthening. Since our parliamentary group believes that the implementation of projects defined by the coalition agreement improves the living conditions of residents in populated areas in the area of the local self-government of the AP Vojvodina, I want to ask a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure – at which stage is the preparation of the following projects: building a road between Orom and Chantavir, whose length is six kilometers? The road is important because it will facilitate communication in a wider area, which is the border area of the town of Subotica and the municipality of Kanjiž. Also, the construction of the road will provide more efficient and safer transport of municipal waste from the municipalities of Choka, Bačka Topola, Mali Ijoš and Senta at a regional dump that is close to this route. The reconstruction of the link road between the state road 1B13 and the town of Martonoš in the municipality of Kanjiž, is 3,150 meters long. Part of the road was reconstructed in 2016 in the length of 550 meters. Further, construction of a traffic light at the intersection of Palic, i.e. Veliki Radanovac on the 2A100 state road and a traffic light on the 1V11 state road near Zorkina Street in Subotica. Further, construction of an unbuilt stock between Subotica and Senta from the loop of Subotica East to Sentra. The total length of the stock is 24km, of which 11km has been built and rehabilitation is needed, while 13km needs to be built. This share is practically a continuation of the ipillon arm towards Senti and Banat. It's part of the Banatian highway. Further, construction of a bypass around Kanjija, a planned documentation envisioned over a total length of 4,64km. Project documentation exists. Further, construction of a circular intersection at the intersection of 2B303 and the local road Suotica - Chantavir in the populated village of Chantavir. This circular intersection is needed due to safer traffic and traffic regulation of freight vehicles moving along this route to Serbia's largest livestock food producer, Gebi Chantavir. Further, rehabilitation of road 1B12 Sombor – Subotica. The total length is 45.8 kilometers. This route is extremely burdened, and the state of the August structure is in poor condition due to imbalances, even unsecured for vehicles. Finally, to underline, our parliamentary group welcomes all efforts made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, which invests in the realisation of the above-mentioned projects that infrastructureally link our country with the region, thus creating a good basis for accelerated economic development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10224	Thank you, Mr. Ujhelji. The word is held by the Vice-President of the Assembly, Stefan Krkobibić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10225	Thank you, dear Vice President Orlic. Dear Vice-Presidents, distinguished fellow MPs, for more than a decade has been the current problem that farmers have with the debt to pay the pension-inhabited fund's contributions, but also with the way in which pension insurance contributions are paid in the future. In short, farmers first acquired the right to pay off agricultural pensions in the mid-80s. After the start of the flight, a large number of agricultural producers were no longer able to pay the required contributions, and debt was growing. According to expert estimates published in the public, almost 95% of this debt is non-refundable and therefore we ask the Ministry of Finance – is it feasible for farmers who have debts on this basis to write off the corresponding interest and that the principal debt is reprogrammed for a relatively long period? In the PUPS Group- "Tri P" we believe that this solution would all be a win-win. The finance ministry would solve one of the biggest problems of this huge debt, and farmers could breathe easier in the future. These days, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture have informed us that several models of the change in the method of payment of contributions for the pension and disability insurance of farmers to overcome the situation, that for example, the same amount of salary contributions and that tiny pair that has only a few hectares and that master who handles hundreds of hectares of farmland. The PUPS parliamentary group -- "Tri P" supports the solution that the level of payment of contributions to PIO is consistent with the size of the property or as an alternative to the level of annual income, specifically agricultural land. The United Pensioners' Party of Serbia has repeatedly voiced its pledge to introduce so-called for all older citizens of Serbia who have not made pensions on a regular basis. guaranteed pensions whose customers might then be those farmers who do not exercise pension rights on any basis. That is why my second question is also addressed to the Ministry of Finance on this background, whether mid-term and long-term estimates are such that there could be enough funds in the republican budget to pay the so-called so-called "republic budget". guaranteed pensions? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10226	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10227	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Orlic. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, before I ask the question, Mr Orlic, I know that by the Rules of Procedure at the beginning of Tuesdays and Thursdays, when questions are asked immediately before the remainder of the session, it is not possible to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I want to ask myself, you did not chair, I want to ask you and everyone who chaired, to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and first of all, I am becoming a bit boring myself, but I will always repeat that, Sandzak does not exist. There's a Rasko administrative district. I am convinced that all the questions asked by a colleague will be resolved and that the Ministry of Mining and Energy will meet, as they say, by a coalition agreement, but please the Rasko administrative district. This is what the SPS parliamentary group insists on, because each of us, 250 here, has committed to respecting, signing an oath, that they will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. My question today is this. Namely, the question of KIM is our daily concern and a question of vital importance for our country, and this time I want to draw attention to the large number of news that have been present in the media for the last two days, which refers to intensive militarisation, namely the weapons of Pristina. With the help of its external helpers, Pristina is arming itself, in breach of above all Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council, which implies that the only armed forces in the KIM area can be the UN peacekeeping force, or KFOR, but unfortunately not. First of all, the question for me is whether the weapons of Pristina with the help of external helpers essentially means that it is those who arm Pristina that do not only do so for Pristina, but also purposely fuel conflicts with Serbia to achieve their interests in the Western Balkans, which is vulnerable because it is a kind of zone of intertwining of various military political appetites and interests. Daily presses, as well as serious military analysts, say the West is planning to arm Kosovo, which is in line with UN Resolution 1244, and KFOR is obliged as a UN peacekeeping mission to care for the peace and security of all at KIM. Despite the enormous damage to the UN's reputation, the Security Council is not responding to this weapon. It does not react, unfortunately, to the EU either. This image of silence and lack of adequate response by international institutions has, unfortunately, been repeating in recent months, which concerns and suggests that international acts are openly violated and that those in charge of preserving world peace are unable to meet their mission, not because it is not possible, but because many who have led KFOR have measured the situation with double arches and double standards. We believe, however, that the new deployment of General Kyarya, who arrived from Hungary, will have the opportunity to see the situation realistically and see who is indeed a threat to peace and security in Kosovo and Metohija and to inform his superiors about the fact that Pristina is arming itself. The media said Pristina bought 3,000 anti-arming handthrowers from Bosnia and Herzegovina, that they had acquired 150 aircraft cannons, and that they were getting 12,000 mines from the west. This aggressive and illegal militarisation of Pristina, with the aim of creating its own army, although it is not a state and under the UN's protectorate, says in support of all means of strengthening pressure on Serbia. To this end, it also announced the takeover of the Valac Trafo station, located in the north of Cosmeta in the municipality of Zvecan, through which the north of Kosovo and Metohija and in the accumulation of Gazidovo, more than 80% of the power comes from central Serbia. Such a possibility is a disaster, as the northern Cosmeta on which the Serb population lives would remain completely without the supply of electricity. That's what I was talking about last time. These threats are an obvious plan for Pristina and their allies to scare Serbia and give up its rights. It is also clear that militarisation, i.e. the arms of Pristina, is not allowed, but, unfortunately, the weakness and silence of the entire international community goes hand in hand to Pristina separatists. Of course, it is clear to Serbia that such military moves of Pristina are always current when any dialogue is to be blocked. Until they agree to anything, Serbia makes concessions and advocates a mutually acceptable solution. My question is to support our leadership more, to continue making every effort to preserve the state of sovereignty and integrity through diplomatic means and never to give up on the protection of Kosovo and Metohija and its people. At the same time, my question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I end with this, would it be if the Republic of Serbia as a UN member could ask the UN to respect Resolution 1244, i.e. to ensure conditions for KFOR forces, in accordance with Resolution 1244, to maintain peace and security, not only Serbs, but also other citizens living in the area of Kosovo and Metohija? Is it possible, in that sense, to request a greater presence of KFOR members, above all, who could provide peace and the rights of the Serb people to live in their homes in the case of militant behaviour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10228	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Last question, MP Ugljesa Mrdic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10229	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Orlic. Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at moments when President Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian government recorded new, serious, good results in all fields, the opposition gathered around Dragan Djilas, Dragan Solak and Vuk Jeremic is becoming increasingly nervous and they are now seeking support from individual foreign centres of power for the demolition and authorities of Aleksandar Vukic, the collapse of the Serbian government, and I would add Serbia's destruction. Both Vucic and the Serbian government are disturbing them to continue their financial malfeasances that they worked in Belgrade until 2014, and in Serbia until 2012. Who now criticises the power of Alexander Vukic and seeks the support of foreigners? It is certainly Zdravko Ponos, who, as chief of Serbia's Army General Staff, destroyed Serbia's army and Serbia's army in his recent history, was the weakest when Zdravko Ponos led the army, then Vuk Jeremic, who is the worst foreign minister in Serbia's history. Of course, foreign support also requires Dragan Gilas, who is Belgrade's worst mayor in history. They seek support and organised criminal structures and Western embassies, from tycoons and do not ask because they are tycoons, primarily Gilas and Solak. On this occasion, I would like to thank the answers I received from the questions asked by the MUP and Minister Alexander Vulin, which concern the role of the MUP in disclosing the affairs of Dragan Šolak and Dragan Gilas. So I received a notice on Dragan Šolak's debt, that the Ministry of Organized Crime officials filed a criminal report against several employees in the public media institution RTS and several replies to the company Darekt Media d.o.o. due to the existence of grounds of suspicion that they committed a crime of abuse of the position of responsible persons by causing damage to RTS amounting to about 688 million dinars. Let's move on. Following requests to collect the necessary information from the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade regarding the abuse of Dragan Gilas in the period during which he was mayor of Belgrade, after the checks were carried out, the MUP will submit a report to the competent prosecutor who will make the appropriate public prosecutorial decision regarding further proceedings. Let's move on. The organised crime prosecutor's office, acting on a report filed by the city of Belgrade against NN persons over possible illegalities in the process of building a bridge on Adi, submitted a request to the MUP for the collection of necessary information by police officers. We have more material on the time when Dragan Gilas was mayor of Belgrade. The senior public prosecutor's office in Belgrade, officials of Serbia's MUP, have filed several criminal charges against several people employed in the ICTY "City Cleanness" because of the existence of grounds for suspicion that they have committed a crime of abuse of their official position. Police officers then found that during Dragan Gilas, the JKP "City Cleanliness" was damaged and police officers filed a criminal report against the Belgrade City Administration's responsible persons from the time of Dragan Gilas on the grounds of suspicion that they had damaged the city's budget. My question concerns the role of other state institutions in all proceedings against Dragan Gilas and his associates. I hope that as a parliamentary group, both as MPs and as a public, we will receive answers as detailed as we have received from the MUP. Those who participated in these affairs, Dragan Gilas and his associates, they took hundreds of millions, kidnapped hundreds of millions of Serbian citizens and are therefore nervous. They're nervous because they can never return to power. They're nervous that the investigative authorities determine all their illegalities, which the people won't. That's why they're threatening President Alexander Vukic's family. That's why they're organizing a follow-up for his son, Daniel. That's why they want to involve Western factors in destroying this government. They are disturbed by the strong Serbia led by Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10230	Thank you, Mr. Gristle. This concludes part of the session scheduled to ask questions. Before moving to today's joint search, pursuant to Article 90(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 101(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Rules of Procedure, I am now terminating this session for holding the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, which has been convened for today, starting at 11.00 p.m. In accordance with Article 101(5), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session will continue immediately after the end of the Sixth Special Session. So we'll be back to work in ten minutes. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. We are moving to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions set out in points 7 and 8 of the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192(3) of Article 157(2), Article 157(2) shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the termination of office and appointment in the Republic Election Commission, the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10232	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Orlic. The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, therefore, is a third joint single search: a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the termination of office and appointment in the Republic Election Commission, as well as a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the SPS. Of course, as a promoter, I will first explain what it is when we talk about the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Committee's composition. There have been some changes in the parliamentary group to the rotation, as we say, and the replacements of MPs and it is perfectly logical that new MPs get a certain membership on committees, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on Labour. We have submitted this proposal not according to an emergency procedure, but as agreed, among other things, and how it is insisted, among other things, that we avoid an emergency procedure, but that we go into a regular procedure. So, accordingly, we have made certain changes to the committees and we are fully convinced that the MPs and MPs we have proposed in the resolution committees will be responsible, serious and committed to doing their job, because we believe that the SPS parliamentary group considers that the work of the resolution committees is of paramount importance and importance, because every legislative proposal that is found in front of us is first passed by the resolution committee. The resolution committee shall be able to make specific suggestions or formulate a committee amendment prior to the session itself, provided that it is necessary. As far as the proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the termination of office and appointment of the Republic Election Commission is concerned, I will also take the opportunity to refer to this topic as well, because I think it is extremely important and I will try to make a parallel with all those events that we have had over the past few months, and it concerns specifically inter-party dialogue. So, the replacement itself, i.e. the motion for a decision is not disputed and he, of course, will have the support of the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day, but I say, because we were talking about the Republic Election Commission, which was the topic of what we talked about several months ago, I want to make one retrospective of all events and I want to open today, since we had that rule "ready house", so we couldn't talk about an interparty dialogue that was conducted on both one and another track, but since the inter-party dialogue with European parliamentarians was concluded, given that the inter-party dialogue had been concluded and that an agreement with the political parties who didn't want to talk to the European parliamentarians was signed, I think that today we can talk openly about all this. First of all, I want to say that when it comes to inter-party dialogue itself, the aim of participation of the SPS parliamentary group in inter-party dialogue was to try to find some solutions together with our coalition partners, find a compromise, respecting primarily diversity, but respecting the Constitution and respecting the laws adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is a free and democratic state and, of course, we express our willingness to always talk about electoral conditions, if there are, and to accept them, of course, if there are legitimate suggestions, justified proposals, which will be a step forward, when we specifically talk about the election process and when we specifically talk about elections that will be held in Serbia on 3 April 2022, I mean presidential, urban and extraordinary parliamentary elections. The Socialist Party of Serbia has defined itself as participating in talks, as we say, on both tracks. And we think that a very good initiative by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is in agreement with the President of the Republic, because it was very important to have the presence of the President of the Republic, of course, on this second track, when it comes to political parties who do not want to talk to European parliamentarians, as someone who is a factor of political stability at the moment in Serbia. So we've defined ourselves as participating in conversations on both tracks, wanting to listen to suggestions and suggestions, and it's important that there are both tracks, because this is a simple process that you can't exclude anyone from. You can't rule out any political parties, and it's your turn to hear if they have specific suggestions and suggestions. I think that, first of all, when it comes to inter-party dialogue with European parliamentarians, I will say quite clearly and completely precisely, since a few months ago the public has been dissuaded by a part of the opposition, that boycott is the reason why we as the ruling coalition have talked to European parliamentarians. That's a notorious lie. So we talked to the European parliamentarians because the conclusion of the first round, or the first phase of the inter-party dialogue, was to continue the talks on election conditions immediately after the elections. I would also like to point out that everything that was defined during the first phase of the interparty dialogue has been implemented, more than 95% of the agenda we have jointly defined has been implemented. So no boycott is a reason. The boycott has failed and it is clear to everyone today, but it is definitely not clear to those who have boycotted the election. First of all, we are not the ones who invited European parliamentarians to discuss election conditions, as very often some political parties respect it. Most of you were sitting in these assembly benches in 2019. The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was then Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. As early as March, she urged all parliamentary groups to discuss parliament's work, to discuss election conditions, how to improve parliamentary dialogue, how to improve parliamentary practice, how to improve parliamentaryism in Serbia. No one did, but absolutely no one responded. After that, we have a boycott of a part of the opposition in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why the boycott? They say they are not allowed to debate democratically and democratically to face opinions, which is a notorious lie again, another notorous lie in a series of lies I will tell today. So, at no point did there exist double standards and double arches. Their exit is precisely impossible, a reflection of the impotence and political impotence to show their strength through democratic debate and arguments. Then they all went out to this assembly hall together and the only requirement they had at the time was to call an extraordinary parliamentary election. When they realized that the extraordinary parliamentary elections for them would be political failure and would not survive them politically, in order to be a plus-squamper of Serbia's political scene, they had to figure something out. They came to call for the help of European parliamentarians, thinking that European parliamentarians would put some kind of pressure on the ruling coalition in Serbia, thinking that European parliamentarians, which was the ultimate goal, would, without a vote, lead them to power and privilege. He can't, ladies and gentlemen. Democracy in Serbia only takes place in the elections and elections can change Serbia's political course. So we did not insist on talking to European parliamentarians. Why didn't we say no? If we had refused to talk to European parliamentarians, it would have turned out that the ruling coalition wanted something to be hidden, that the ruling coalition wanted unfair and undemocratic elections, which was not at all questionable. So then the fictional flossula election conditions. The electoral conditions for them were just a farce and a distraction to the public. They were not interested in election conditions, but wanted to present themselves to the Serbian public as a victim, to turn their inferiority into a weapon, although they knew in advance what their final political move would be, which is a boycott of the election. I had to say this for one simple reason, because, I say, a few months ago, the public of Serbia has been devastated that we are forced to talk to European parliamentarians and that the boycott has forced us to do so, which is absolutely not true and that it absolutely does not stand. During the first phase, I will remind you, we have performed very constructively, very correctly and very concretely in the Republic Parliament, and in accordance with the agreement with European Parliamentarians and with the parties participating in the discussion, which we were later honored, as negatively in the European Commission's report, that during the election year, we have changed electoral legislation. There they certainly didn't think of these laws they insisted on, but rather of reducing the censorship from five to three percent, which was not in favour of the ruling coalition again, but was creating the possibility that those who are far from censorships of five percent had the opportunity to have their representatives in the Republic Parliament and the Republic Parliament as one relevant demonstration of public opinion in Serbia, to try to get the policy back from the street where it belongs to parliament. They didn't get it the best way. We have accepted the second phase of inter-party dialogue, I am now talking about an inter-party dialogue with European parliamentarians. In particular, when we came to the final document, the final document did not respond to those who called on the European parliamentarians and talked to them all the time. To be clear, each parliamentary group, each political party has had the opportunity to deliver its platform, suggestions and proposals that it believes can improve electoral conditions in Serbia. As a party, respecting the institutions of the system, we delivered the platform to the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and European Parliamentarians. While other political options, one part of the opposition that insisted on talks with the European parliamentarians, all the time communicated, not with us, not with the National Assembly, again bypassing the system's institutions, in violation of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but directly spoke to the European parliamentarians and on the eve of conclusions, final conclusions, we received a proposal from one part of the opposition. The proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is tragic, and where it is required to host alone on RTS and RTS every day from 18.30 to 19.00 hours, where three times a week's debate character of the show will, of course, take part in 21.00 hours, where it is required to appoint a single supervisory body that will have an executive function. To get to the executive position, you need to get to the authorities, and to get to power, you need to trust the citizens. Imagine, they say, Beta, Fonet, Truemer, KRIK, CINS, Time twice a week to broadcast their programs precisely on national frequency, or on RTS. We received this platform on the eve of the conclusions defined by the European Parliament. I want to get back to the conclusions, because they're tied to RIK, and that's all they're talking about, and they've made a shorter retrospective. So, when it comes to the conclusions of the European Parliament, the agreement is to form a temporary supervisory body consisting of 12 members. Six members would make up REM representatives, and six members would give opposition. This regulatory body would aim to monitor the work of the media, especially by paying particular attention to RTS and RTS, because that was most interesting for them. It is also agreed, when we talk about RIK, that a precedent has been made and I think that no ruling coalition has ever accepted this and would not adopt this as this ruling coalition did, which is that instead of 17 members of the RIK we have 23 members of the RIK. So you know very well, we have 17 members of the RIK, the number of members is defined by the same parity, or percentage how much representation you have and what number of MPs you have within the Parliament group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have allowed non-parliamentary parties who do not trust citizens to have their six representatives and six deputies, and these are the conclusions that were unacceptable to them. However, I am convinced that most of the opposition that held talks with European parliamentarians would accept this request, but it should not. Why wasn't she supposed to? Because the Gilas media would consider them to be someone who co-operated with the government, and that certainly wasn't their interest. Otherwise, I am fully convinced that these requirements are acceptable to them. As for the second track and the talks with political parties that did not want to talk to European parliamentarians, we have repeatedly said that these talks still have one democratic spirit, that there is one political threshold for tolerance and political culture and what is very important -- there is a high degree of political responsibility. First of all, I think about national and state interests, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, Republika Srpska, so that's where citizens expect us not to share in power and opposition, but to achieve the broad consensus. But, as Mr Zukorlic did, you won't mind me, once he told me during the dialogue -- it's a completely one story when we sit down and there's no cameras, and as soon as the cameras come up, then it's another story, which proved to be the moment when we signed the agreement, finally signed an agreement with political parties who didn't want to talk to European parliamentarians, their press conferences and their address in the assembly hall at that point was more like the start of an election campaign, but specifically what we were talking about, and these are election conditions. So, what is it that allows representatives of the opposition? Well, they will have about 85,000 representatives to control election committees, polling stations on election day, which should exclude any suspicion of the legitimacy of the election process. The agreement provides for the establishment of a working body to control the voter's list, through which opposition representatives will be able to compare each day with various data including data on how many dead and those who have gained the right to vote in order to remove suspicions that false voters are voting. Also, representatives of the opposition, which is once again indirectly related to RIK, as it is related to the permanent composition of the electoral board, are represented by one member, a permanent member of the electoral board, who will have four members in all. Again, the party that did not participate in the elections has a permanent member of the election board and that is something that the ruling coalition has accepted. It means eight thousand representatives of the opposition in the same number of electoral committees in Serbia, with at least 10 to 20 more people from the opposition controlling elections at each polling post, where each opposition party has the right to have its own representative. Can such agreements be discussed at this time with some kind of irregularity, unfair and undemocratic elections? Once again, I am fully convinced that no ruling coalition would accept what we accepted during the inter-party dialogue with European parliamentarians, during an inter-party dialogue with representatives of political parties who did not want talks with European parliamentarians. I'm just going to say a few more short sentences that were going through. Of course, it's always been the pressure on voters. This has nothing to do with RIK, but I'll take the chance to say it. There was always this pressure on the voters. The question now arises - how did some political parties in 2017 specifically have their representatives here in the Republic Parliament? Is it that someone brought them all together, and I don't want to talk about who brought them together, but they all got together then and Pajtic and Radulovic and all together, to invite their constituents and simply force their voters to support that election list, is that the pressure on voters? I think so. Here, I'll tell you the specifics. For example, the polling list in Backo Topoli had 3.5% first and 23.27% again. Did their ratings grow that much? In Sremski Karlovci, 1.31%, at a repeated 19.02%, in Jagodina 1.63%, at a repeated 22.36%, in Kladov 2,59%, on a repeated 9.70%, Nis Pantely municipality 3.85%, on a repeated 15.90%, Vranje, as an example of 2.71%), at a repeated 12.57%. Is this, ladies and gentlemen, a kind of pressure on voters or what else is it called? The second topic that was interesting is to separate parliament from the presidential and city elections. Since the introduction of the multi-party system I do not remember, there is Professor Jokic, professor, that the practice was to separate the elections, and in particular 2004, 2007, 2008, 2012. Why would they separate the election? We are campaigning for both parliamentary and presidential campaigns. We do not prevent citizens of Serbia from pleading in any way for any presidential candidate, any parliamentary list or list at the city level. The third thing that's most important, and that's the financial effect. In the Corona period, during the pandemic period, we will organise in one year first presidential, then parliamentary, and then city elections. Isn't it more logical to focus that money where it's most needed at this point, and that's in the hospital cove, in the infirmary, to finally solve the issue and put an end to the battle against the crown? One more thing was very interesting and it was the media, freedom of the media. I have told the European parliamentarians several times – it is very interesting that in 2019 you are engaged in the freedom of the media, without doing so in 2011 when Verica Barac made a report on freedom of the media and made it very precise and clear who owns every second of the national frequency. The freedom of the media is spoken of by someone who says – do you support the idea that one day the Pinka building will be torn down on the grounds that it does not meet the municipal criteria or any other legitimate reason, and that in its place a monument of freedom of speech will be erected through a transparent process of public procurement? This says one of the leaders of the opposition's political option today - so Brussels is not the only one who wonders, we will address the United States, a new ambassador is coming. Guys, you don't have enough support for the embassy. You need citizens' support, and when you say "scarredness, remandism, lustration," you don't know what "lastration" means first, and we've been lustrated from the SPS for 31 years as a relevant political factor, the lustration is being conducted by citizens in elections. When you say all this and say it in the end – keep in mind that you need citizens who are not there for these protests. As far as media representation is concerned in the last elections, just one piece of information, this is an official REM report. The official REM report makes it clear -- the second most representative when it comes to media services is the Alliance for Serbia. So, a political option that did not participate in parliamentary elections. And we fight hard against the political options of the electoral list that boycott the elections cannot have representation in the media. And it seems to me that they're misreading and misanalysing equal representation in the media. Equal representation in the media does not mean that you will deal with editorial media policy. The media must be autonomous and free to decide. As for equal representation, we in the Platform, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović and I, wrote that we advocate equal representation, but as many thematic debates as possible, so, ladies and gentlemen, here's the program, the people who guarantee the implementation of this programme, so that we cross the spear, and let the citizens decide in the elections to whom they will show confidence. Finally, the Privatisation Strategy of the media was created in 2000. That's when the privatized media. Someone wanted capitalism, got capitalism. Where is the need to interfere in the private sector today? So we can, and that's what we agreed to, pass the rule to the public service. But we can only pass on recommendations to private broadcasters. The agreement reached was that, following an agreement signed by the National Assembly president, an invitation or a letter to all the media on how they predicted that the electoral lists should be represented during the election campaign. I think that this agreement, both with the European Parliamentarians and the agreement that we signed here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has made one big concession, primarily a concession, in every respect, because all the time we make that concession to non-parliamentary parties, to someone who doesn't trust the citizens, but I think we have shown a democratic determination that we have nothing to hide and that we are fully convinced, we will have fair and democratic elections, and in 2022, the citizens will, on 3 April, tell who they will show confidence. And these six RIK members and their deputies and the supervisory body and all that we have agreed to implement in the period ahead of us and let them choose, if they think there is anything hidden in the election process. Once again, the President-in-Office, we, of course, will support this proposal that we are formulating, but will also support the parliamentary group's proposal when it comes to replacing the RIK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10233	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. As a promoter, People's MP Samir Tandir also called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10234	The esteemed chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens and citizens, are very important points on the agenda today, and I am glad that my colleagues had the understanding of this proposal, which I, as head of the Parliament's Group of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party, has proposed, which is on the agenda today. We as the strongest Bosniak party in the Republic of Serbia will vote for both points in voting day, because we believe that they are essential to the development and democratic processes and democratic discourse in our country. The issue of elections, proper implementation of elections, voting and results is a million-dollar question. And when we analyze how election processes were going both before World War I and after World War I and after World War II, even in something that's in multi-party since the '90s, we'll realize that there's never been a consensus here. Satyrians often dealt with the issue of choice, so the term "lock box" came up. I don't think anyone ever, if he lost the election, said he lost because he had bad ideas, bad politics, weak candidates, would necessarily resist the regularity of the election. When I talk about that analysis, I'm not going back to 1920, not in 1936, not in 1948, not in 1990, 1991, 1996, etc., I'm going to talk about something that just happened as an example recently. In 2010, for the first time in our country, elections for national councils of national minorities were organised. I had the honour with my friends and associates to be on the list led by our party leader, then Mufti, Muamer Zukorlic, and the list was called "The list of Bosniak cultural communities" and it was despite all the irregularities, and the irregularities were so great that when I looked at this dialogue and what we were saying in the previous months, there could not be a story or a choir about something like equal representation in the media, the same number of controllers or observers of the election process, participation with their controllers and representatives in city or municipal election commissions, etc. What is essential and what I want to point out today, respected colleagues and colleagues, is that despite all the abuses of the regime in 2010, the regime of Boris Tadic and DS won 49% of the vote. And when the constitution of the National Council took place, where the winner with members of his list and others who wanted to support it, when it was to be established, there was an explanation, a change of the Rules of Procedure on Labour, a brutal violation of the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia, and the Rules of Procedure was changed to read -- Bosniaks are special, so they need a special Rules of Procedure. That's what democracy looked like and held the 2010 election. Nothing that year, not in 2012, was better neither local nor parliamentary, nor presidential elections, but, thank God, there have been some political changes and therefore we can discuss today and talk about improving certain rights. We participated in the dialogue, the leader of our party and the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, were actively participating, and I want to say that I am proud that, on a proposal from our party's leader, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, has reduced that number of signatures to hand over the list of national minorities, and I think it is a major democratic step. We have sent our platform and representatives of the European Parliament. This time I want to thank them. The dialogue has no alternative. It's important to talk. Democracy cannot be realized and won in the street. The place for debate, for discussion, as much as our views were opposed, is parliament, are round tables, are defined, whether it is a "read house" or do not know "tet a tet" meetings, whatever we want to call them, and forms of conversation. Any form of conversation is welcome and we absolutely support it. What I want to point out is that the Republic Election Commission is crucially responsible for the conduct of the elections and we believe that the staffing of the Republic Election Commission will gain it on an even greater level of legitimacy, on an even greater level of expertise. We've tried to make sure that our candidates or our candidate absolutely meet all the required standards. We are proud of every candidate of ours and I am absolutely certain that all these changes we have adopted are going towards absolutely never again and no one points a finger at the Republic Election Commission and raises their suspicions when it comes to the election process. I think it's the goal of absolutely all political actors, whether they're in power, whether they're in opposition. What I want to point out is that when we, the MPs who come from Sandzak, say Sandzak, we think of a cannon in our language. It's not a problem if someone doesn't know something, they don't know. Out of ignorance, prejudice usually arises, and sometimes these prejudices turn into hatred. My fellow MPs and I, when we say Sandzak, are talking about a geographical concept, a toponym, a space where we come from, and we call it that for centuries, absolutely in no way entering the territorial organization of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10235	Thank you. Since the proposings have explained their proposals, we are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The vice president of the National Assembly, Dr Muamer Zukorlic, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10236	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, will certainly support this proposal, of course, not only because it is the procedurally necessary decisions to vote, but also because of the fact that we are experiencing this as another important step towards fulfilling the capacity of the Republic Election Commission waiting for this day and this point for a year. So, even though there was no interference to do it before, here's what we're doing with a certain, let's say, delay, but better yet, no one at all. This will give us a complete composition of the Republic Election Commission. What is another significant step is the fact that the Republic Election Commission will win as vice president of a person, i.e. candidate from a minority nation, or community, which is another significant step towards the perception of the Republic Election Commission itself, which should mirror the overall colour of our country here in this country, both ethnic and cultural and confessional, but certainly also political. So it definitely represents another important step that can certainly be interpreted or interpreted from different party-political positions. This is an indisputable fact and in this respect, I say, it is another step for us to take into account the realisation of the policy of understanding, dialogue policy, reconciliation policy, justice policy, relations policy, therefore healthy relations within a country and the relationship between political entities, but implicitly and in relation to different national and confessional and cultural collectiveities. So, we are certainly completing the capacity of the Republic Election Commission, but by doing so, with all the opportunities we have already had to listen to in the past weeks, and as regards two colossals, different talks and negotiations on the improvement of election rules, that is, the country's capacity through firstly this representative and legislative body, but also through other key entities in this country. So what makes me extremely positive is the willingness to talk. So one country, one nation, one nation, or all the collectiveities in one country, through their representatives, show their cultural and civilizational quality and capacity at the ready to talk. Where there's a willingness to talk, there's security, there's a belief that you have the tools. Where there is no capacity to talk, where it escapes conversation, where an attitude is imposed by force, even if it is a state, legal force, it is an indicator of weakness and one authority and one system and certainly, implicitly and one state, or nation in terms of sovereignty. So these are all indicators that despite the fact that, even though there will always be various shortcomings, all that is human work, whether it's the law, whether it's any other decision or programme, we all know that when we put all our efforts and our best intentions to make it good, we'll always find something that's missing, something that's missing, something that's missing, and there's such a frequent change of law. So, not only because circumstances change, but because they are seen through the experience of applying certain laws, they see clear shortcomings that need to be eliminated and certainly because there is a National Assembly that does not view its laws as sacred, because only God's laws are sacred and unchangeable, while human relative and variable, and they are more quality to the extent to which they are essentially in line with principles, values principles, God's, spiritual, ethical and all those who, through the ages, are time-consuming from the creation of human civilization to date have been proven and confirmed as principles based on valuable quality. So, in fact, what we are doing now is further improving, improving, removing the shortcomings, and I am very glad that I had the opportunity to participate in these negotiations and talks in that column with the European Parliamentarians, they were intense and direct. So, at all the sessions, we were all together. In this second column, we participated only at the outset, and later the key authorities who were taken to the two key strongest parties in this House together with the President of Parliament, occasionally the President of the Republic, ended this dialogue as we see it, although we have not officially received the text of the agreement ourselves. We expect to get it as parliamentary parties and clubs so we actually have details of it. We're unofficially informed and what is unofficial information is that huge steps have been made. So, the very fact that all these political entities, dissatisfied political entities from whom many or some have boycotted the elections, which means that they were dissatisfied, have now accepted the agreement, have even put their signature, only in itself points to the fact that a serious step has been made. Of course they always agreed to compromise. They always arranged some point of encounter between one side and the other. Never can an agreement be reached through the expectation of realisation or acceptance of your own maximumistic expectations or demands. So the best deal is the one where everyone's a little bit satisfied, a little unsatisfactory. That is the meaning of compromise. Therefore, in this respect, I welcome this, not only because I expect that the arrangements or the text of that agreement will bring you some sensational results. Honestly, I don't expect that, because it's not about some things that can make turns about the election process or even the election outcome. No, but the process itself delights me, the very ability of the system to organize. Chuck, I was also asked by the European parliamentarians – what do you need this second column for? I think I've been very constructive in the clarification and I think it's also made a positive impression on them, that it's not about anything that's now opposed to this second column. On the contrary, it is only an indicator of capacity, primarily of the National Assembly, but also of other entities at the very top of the state, that it simply leaves no room for anyone to exclude themselves from the talks and agreements, unless they exclude themselves. So it's the only way here, only those who didn't want to talk, they were kind of turned off, not because someone made it impossible or disabled them, but because they shut themselves down, which was happening at a certain stage in this second column with Europarliamentaries. So it's all very important to me, I say, as a broader process. I would like to thank my colleague Samir Tandir as a proposing, who reminded us of what was going on in 2010. As the people say, whom the serpents have eaten and the lizard is afraid. We who have had such terrible, very terrible experiences for me, that one community, in this case, the Bosniak national community, will be in such a disdained, insulted, discriminated openly, with the explanation of the then minister, seems to me to be Chiplic, who was the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, and his state secretary, who answered why you changed the rules during the constitution of national councils... Therefore, all national councils have been established under one rule, and they change the rules only for the Bosniak community. He says he's dead cold, he's alive, he's unpunished, he says the Bosniaks are something else. Imagine, if there were a rule of law then, it would surely have ended up being prosecuted for a crime of open discrimination. Beware of the paradox, it is pronounced, or represented by someone who is a minister, i.e. the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. So someone in charge of protecting minority and human rights. Imagine, if such an attitude comes from that position, what about other mechanisms that have been designed to carry out certain particular, party, above all, and the interests of the government, that regime? Of course, one who goes through such torture is always concerned about election processes. When we add to this various other events that have followed not only this, but also some other electoral processes, or, more specifically, paradox to which no one has ever given an answer, that the exit from this situation in which the government and this ministry have not recognised the constitution of the Bosniak National Council that had its majority, do you know what the outcome was? The way out of it was that there was no bigger. For four years, there has been no National Council of Bosniaks, or Bosniak National Council. What are you waiting for? It is expected that the actions of the regime that have been mirrored in the permanent abuse of the gendarmes, the abduction of mosques, the brutal use of levers of power, courts, prosecutors, so various other mechanisms, would be allowed by the electoral body that then dared to support the majority, absolute, convincing support of the Bosniak cultural community, which I had the privilege of personally leading to, of course, after four years in some way or at least turn that result. Why is he turned around? One part, of course, caved in under the punches of the pendreka and various other pressures, etc. Part two was disappointed in the state. The second part said -- wait, what is the point of you harassing us with various elections, that you are taking us to polls, so when you don't like the result, the Bosniak National Council, or the Bosniak National Council, is not recognised for four years? What's that laugh? We actually had the outcome that tens of thousands of people gave up the vote. In the next election, they would no longer participate in such a parody, in which such insolence is manifested. Why? Just because he won someone who wasn't supposed to win. That's what made us join the political process and full capacity. So you know that my activation in politics and entry into politics in 2016 looked like some kind of paradox and that it is a unique case for a religious chief to be activated politically. Many times I've answered such questions why. Of course the answers are very multilayered. They made me go into politics. I want you to hear it from me. They made me. My field was never politics in my vision. My field was faith, culture, education, science. It was my life in my dreams, thinking and acting until 2016. But when I became convinced that what we were building hard from this poverty, from that neglected, humiliated people who had been neglected and political and infrastructure and economical, persecuted, threatened in various ways, then since 1993 through the Islamic community, through various other projects, we have raised that community that looked more to the dead than to the living, more like a funeral society than an Islamic religious, spiritual, educational and cultural community, as it should be in its full mission, and when we raised that community for twenty years, and made it the most modern, most modern, religious, spiritual, educational and cultural community, which should be in the full of its own, educational, educational and educational capacity, from time to time. So it's the only community that has managed to build a secular university, not only religious, but secular university. I've cited one example several times. I read it somewhere in Canada when someone hires six people to get an order from the president of the state because six people took it off the back of the state. He hired six people, six families were removed from the gates of the state. In that system, which we have established under, that is, I must say, even if it sounds immodest, under my leadership, for 23 years, a spiritual, religious, educational, humanitarian, publishing, media, intellectual, charity and every other system has been established. That system employs about 600 people from zero. So if we look through the form of employment and economy, we've hired 600 people and created a self-sustainable system that didn't live on the government's budget as some other institutions, organizations, whether religious or cultural or any other. So make one system that's self-sustainable, which doesn't depend on the state budget, even if it's a right. It doesn't even depend on foreign contributions, as is often thought, even though there were such ones. Make such a system and then your political haters, competitors and any other opponents, with the support of the regime at hand, try to crucify you because you have succeeded. Because you've been able to prove that it's possible in one environment called for someone Sandzak politically, for some Sandzak geographically, however, for someone different, etc., which is the right for everyone to call something whatever they want, but right now we're talking about a geographical concept. So what is considered a periphery, as I said, very neglected, and economically and infrastructureally, raise all of this here and from the position of the then government, from the position of local authorities and political competitors, who cannot reconcile to turn the wheel of history to the other side. What was that wheel of history? Until then, we all had to move out. Why? We don't have enough kindergartens, we don't have enough school, we're in bad shape, if we want to get modern school, we need to get out of Sandzak. We don't have a university, we have nothing, and then what do we have to do? Let's move out. Our idea was to prove that every piece of this country, and even those most neglected parts of this country, that they are so beautiful, good, fertile and that it is to people, that it is not to the ground, that all that God has given to this country is the most beautiful, of course, what people have done over various times is very bad. Our ambition, our illusion at the time, and I say the idea, which was taken in the end, was to show, we walked in villages, what you need, why you move out, so it says – there is no child to teach me English and information. Right? Now you'll have educational centres next to the mosque. Then we made a decision through the form of an Islamic community that no mosque could be made without an education center. There's no room? He's got more to do. Is there room? Next door. And it turned out to be very successful. Of course, those who wanted to move out, but at least at least we had our daughter-in-laws out of our hands that made their husbands run away to the bazaar for the sake of the children. Now it's not about the kids, it's about something else, because you don't like the cow, you don't like the buffalo, you don't like what. All right, you go, it's your right, but it's important that we cut out your hands so you don't go objectively, but subjectively. No one can stop anyone. So we made such a community, and then someone decided to punish it. Well, since it was like that, where do you take down our community? It's from politics. Right? I was challenged by my opponents: "Take off the Achmedium", that's the white hat, "take off the Achmedium, so run," thinking I can't escape from the comfort of religious, you know, there you're protected, there you can do whatever you want, because you have autonomy, thinking I won't come to their field. Then they convinced me to come to their field, now they'd give billions to get me back, but late, late, process goes forward. I'm here in politics. Why? Because politics has ruined my community. I'll be done in a minute, colleague. Because my political community was destroyed, and then I came where I decided to protect that community, but not the way they expected me to be some Bosniak Seselj here. No, on the contrary, but with the idea of reconciliation, the idea of dialogue, the idea of agreement, and you can see that it can. We have proved one more thing, and I am ending it, which is – we have proved what has never been possible from the perspective of Sandzak. You had from Sandzak representatives – either semitrons or primitives, and two versions. We have proved – partners, never half-trons, never primitives, never enemies, but partners who agree and build together everything that is good for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10237	I thank Vice President Zukorlic. The word has, also vice-president of the National Assembly, MP Stefan Krkobovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10238	I thank you, Vice-President Kovac, Vice-President Zukorlic, the honourable MPs, today we have before us a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission proposed by our honourable MP and colleague Samir Tandir. We of the PUPS Group – "Tri P" in particular want to refer to the proposal for this act, although this whole proposal consists of only one sentence. Why do we feel that it is so important that today this motion for a decision is on the agenda of our Parliament? In the light of the proposal for this decision, it is recalled that the legal basis for making a decision is contained in Article 33. The Law on the Election of People's MPs, which found that the Republic Election Commission, in its permanent composition, was appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament, and that the adoption of this decision would fill the permanent composition of the Republic Election Commission, thus obtaining conditions for its smooth work. So, honourable MPs, we have been doing this for less than half a year, and before the next elections, we are practically entering that part of our legislative activities that are in the most direct relationship with the upcoming election process. Our oldest citizens, pensioners, farmers and proletaries and all of the most socially sensitive categories of the population look forward to every election, because the elections are a holiday of democracy, but also an opportunity for each of us to report to those who chose us, to draw the line, what we promised, and what we had promised. That is why we think that it is time to start immediately with the implementation of everything that is related to the electoral conditions agreed in both inter-party dialogues of authorities and opposition with and without the intervention of foreigners, especially with the realization of that part of the agreement that requires and legislative interventions here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are likely to be followed by amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs in several directions, as well as several other congregation decisions. First of all, it is the implementation of the agreement to temporarily add six members to the country's entire opposition's permanent composition of the Republic Election Commission, according to the "three plus three" format, in order to increase confidence in the electoral process, and possibly to reduce national minorities' lists from the current 10,000 to 5,000 signatures necessary for running. Followed by the establishment of a temporary media supervisory body, six members would be on the REM proposal, and six from the entire opposition, also the "three plus three" format proposed by the president of the National Assembly, with consultations with co-facilitators. The body would monitor the work of the media and pay the most attention to the work of Serbia's Radio-Television and Radio-Television and inform the public of their findings during the election campaign. It will also have to be intervened in the Law on selection of MPs in order to ensure an even more equal distribution of budgets intended to finance an election campaign among candidates and declared election lists for elections, as well as when it comes to the obligation of all media to publish their tariffs for political advertising before election campaigns. It is likely that amendments and additions to this law under the agreement will regulate the status of observers already in the next elections, etc. The PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will support in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia all of what representatives of our ruling coalition agreed in both collegiate inter-party dialogues on electoral conditions, and on the part of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and those whose co-fassiliators were the president of the National Assembly and the European Parliamentarians. For the end, for that reason, we will support these suggestions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10239	I thank Vice President Krkobic. The word has a national emissary, Selma Kučević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10240	Thank you, Chairman. On today's agenda, we have a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission. At the very beginning, I want to get to know the public that we as the only parliamentary and opposition group have accepted participation in inter-party dialogue, all with the aim of taking concrete steps towards establishing fair conditions and free democratic elections. So we participated in all rounds of dialogue with our proposals, from the Faculty of Political Sciences to the last inter-party dialogue. Following the two-day consultations and discussions we had, certain conclusions and recommendations of the European Parliament, the European Commission, as well as the OSCE were adopted. Among other things, among these conclusions, an agreement has certainly been reached that the post of deputy RIK president belongs to us as the only parliamentary opposition group. So, after that, we have today on the agenda, just some agreements that are contrary to our mentioned and reached agreements. Despite the arrangements reached on today's agenda, another person has been proposed, which is contrary to our agreements reached. Accordingly, due to the lack of agreement by the ruling majority, we will certainly be the only parliamentary and opposition group that, by law on the election of MPs, has the right to a member in this RIK on its participation in the implementation of the measures achieved by the final document of the inter-party dialogue, we will certainly try to get to know the representatives of the European Parliament. Therefore, I call on you to reach those agreements and conclusions that we had in the inter-party dialogue, because otherwise we will consult European Parliament mediators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10241	I thank the People's Parliament, Selmi Kučević. The word has been authorised by a representative of the SDPS parliamentary group or by the president of the parliamentary group, MP Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10242	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I can also rely on the presentation of the previous colleague, there was indeed an agreement at the beginning of this call for the post of RIK deputy president to belong to the opposition parliamentary group, but I have witnessed that it was working towards another agreement and, of course, I do not want to go into it. In any case, it is always good to show one democratic capacity and we have shown it over the past years and it has been a practice for RIK to be the deputy president of the opposition party, but of course it is not for me to assess any motives and leave it for any further agreement. I always stress that every parliamentary group when it proposes candidates, and today we are talking about candidates for RIK and member of the Committee, each parliamentary group, I suppose, is responsible enough to propose a quality candidate, and it is always a matter of one agreement that is reached by consensus and there is no reason to doubt it now and everyone takes responsibility for their candidate. These topics when they come to the agenda are a good opportunity to talk specifically about the work of these organs. The congregation is such that it has several functions. One of the roles of the Assembly is also a supervisory role and it is therefore good to discuss the work of the RIK especially in this time where we have presidential elections, republican elections, as well as local elections in the city of Belgrade. It is often presented in the public that the work of the Assembly comes down only to discussion in the plural, to the adoption of the law, to the adoption of amendments, but we must point out that the role of the Assembly is very important, that supervisory role, and that is why I will talk in this context about some segments concerning the work of the RIK. First of all, it is important that RIK shows in the coming months as it has so far, that it is professionally doing its part of the election process, especially now that all political parties and the authorities and the opposition, however, on two different tracks have been involved in a dialogue that has made certain solutions that should make a move when we talk about the electoral process. It is important that we improve the electoral process and I say it on purpose because the SDPS has been going on for two years and several months, and the SDPS is committed to finding long-term solutions. It is also important to find solutions for any upcoming elections that we would all be pleased with, but we must work together to leave behind generations of a stable political system, one electoral process that no one here will question the results of the election. The fact is that we are witnesses, that ever since the multiparty system was restored in Serbia has always been unsatisfactory. And whenever the elections were over, it was always one side, the defeated party, most often pointing to certain shortcomings, irregularities and rarely when it happened, I think almost never, that the defeated party had given hand to the winner and congratulated on the result of the election. The Republic Election Commission is one of the authorities in charge of holding presidential elections, republican, provinceal, local and national minority councils. This shows how responsible RIK is, and therefore high expectations are due to the very process of organising the elections. The fact is that RIK has modernised its work over the past years and promoted it to several segments. For example, earlier, after the election of the party, which won the largest number of votes in a particular polling post, signed the minutes and had one of the minutes, the other participants of the election, but also the citizens who wanted to see the results of the elections in the particular polling post, could come after the elections were over because the minutes were publicly highlighted at an object, and most often they were schools, local communities where the election was held. Now there's been a shift in that area. I must commend the work of RIK in that segment, now every record is being scanned and sent to RIK in electronic form, so from every polling post and every record is available on the RIK website. So this is an argument that removes any suspicion that a subsequent vote may be terminated. Therefore, who suspects that the final results do not match the results achieved at the polling post can easily enter the RIK site, compare the voting lists, or compare the vote at concrete polling stations, add these votes together and see whether the final results are correct or not. I also note that when we talk about a permanent voting process in polling stations, RIK delegates members of the permanent assembly, delegates presidents, vice presidents, members, deputy members. They are delegated to the relative number of MPs that a party has in the republican parliament. There is also an extended composition at the polling post, so all those parties whose list has been declared by the RIK have the right to send their observers, to send their controllers to a particular polling post that monitors the elections from the beginning to the end. So it happens, say, when, because about 15 lists on the ballot, when it's officially declared, it happens that at one point we can see it in the field when we go to vote, at one point in the polling post, over 40 people are present. Sometimes it happens that polling stations with fewer voters are that there are more people present watching the election than those who went out to vote. I will note that before the previous elections, RIK has organised training for candidates who have applied to be members of a permanent assembly, i.e. members and deputies. I must again point out that during the parties' talks on election conditions, when they discussed the training of members of the assembly, the permanent composition for polling stations, that there was a proposal that every candidate for the controller must cross a certain path, to be trained, to take training, but we must also consider the situation on the ground that is not so simple. Theory is one thing, practice is another. I've found several examples on purpose, say, from my city, from the King, where there's a polling station that's 100 miles away from the King, and there's 122 voters. Another case is a polling station 108km from the city and has 85 voters. Usually these are, in particular, mountain villages where residents are older, who are neither interested, nor have the motive to be controllers in polling stations, to be members of either permanent composition or extended composition, and on the other hand, it is difficult to find someone and motivate someone to travel over 100 kilometers to spend the whole day in such polling stations. It is indeed a difficult task for the party itself to find members of the extended composition, and of course a difficult task for RIK to delegate members of such compositions. So, as I said at the beginning, theory is one thing, practice is another. But in any case, I welcome the RIK's efforts to train as high as possible and to get as many candidates through this training as possible, so that we have as many professional people in the polls as possible. The mistakes, of course, have always been and will always be where people work. I believe that mistakes may sometimes be unintentional, but still, in addition to so many members of the permanent composition, the extended composition, you can always make a complaint and any error can be corrected. RIK is doing its job, canceling the vote at the polling post where irregularities were observed, and then the vote is repeated. Another part of the election process relating to RIK's work, which is attended by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, as regards the voter lists, is very important. I think the ministry has done a good job in the past, that the voter lists have been updated. In public, false stories are often made, as some people vote twice, as some are listed several times on different polling lists, in different cities, which is impossible. Our system, our legal framework that regulates this area, is one of the best in Europe. So, for any change in the polling list, whether it applies to the place of residence, whether it applies to the entry in the voter's list or to the delete from the voter's list, a concrete solution is made. So it's impossible for anyone to enter the database and change the data themselves, delete someone from the polling list or log in. So for each change, a solution, a document, a paper, and so on, this particular document is proof that there can be no such manipulations that are often placed in public in order to undermine trust in the electoral process. When I said that after every election, someone who suspects the results is usually the defeated party. I often say that we from political parties, based on our party infrastructure, are always somewhere and we practice for the election, in the election campaign we place our ideas, we place our programs, who is in power, talks about the results he has achieved, and RIK just shows results that were really concrete in concrete polling places. And then when someone gets mad at RIK, it's like playing a game, it's not good enough, and then they get angry at the traffic lights why the results are like that. I would like to remind you that we from the SDPS a few years ago, have made several proposals to improve the electoral process, one of the proposals SDPS made is that instead of RIK, a state electoral commission, so that it would be a commission in which a permanent independent state body, the most important experts in the area of electoral law, from the political system and their mandate would have to last longer than the mandate of the National Assembly, or MPs in the National Assembly. In this way, their independence in work would be ensured, and we believe that professionalising such an organ, i.e. by forming a state electoral commission, would strengthen mechanisms to control all participants in the electoral process. Of course, when we talk about an idea like this or any proposal relating to the change of the electoral process, I must stress that it is not enough just to adopt laws, we need to implement them in practice. In this way we will change one value system, we will change one political culture and when we reach a certain level of political culture, where everyone will be convicted when he does something besides the law, when he abuses any function in the election process, or when he abuses any resources, to come across one condemnation of the public, and indeed, the greatest condemnation for politicians who can exist, it is a condemnation of the public, and it is usually manifested by the consequences of the elections themselves. I must also comment on the agreement that the number of permanent RIKs for the next elections is increased by six members and six deputy members from the ranks of the entire opposition in Serbia. This is due to the boycott, i.e. in this way, giving opportunity to those parties who have boycotted the elections and those parties who have not crossed the censorship to have representatives in the RIK. So out of 17 permanent members, the number will be increased to 23. I think we have shown this way that we are ready to talk, especially representatives of the ruling coalition. We adopted this one transitional solution to advance the entire election process. And that's one precedent that, of course, won't apply to any next election. We expect this solution, but also all other solutions agreed to be implemented through legal norms, and that will be the work of our MPs in the National Assembly. The aim of all these agreements, the aim of all the adoption of laws concerning the change of the electoral process, should be to restore citizens' trust in the electoral process and eventually reach one of the best solutions that will apply to the years ahead and that are ahead of us. When we talk about board members who are elected, of course, I will not be specific about candidates either, but for the public's sake, I must say that there is often a good debate on committees, a reasoned debate, sometimes even more passionate than in the tide itself, and to point out the importance of working on committees, and this work is often not visible in the public, or can't be seen by citizens in direct transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10243	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative, or vice president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10244	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, we are talking today, and that's what my colleague Bane said, sometimes it appears to be an impression that the Assembly committees are not worthy of what would be the conversation in the tide. On the contrary, I think they certainly are. The importance of each of the committees that the Serbian parliament has is to prepare the plenary session in the most qualitative way. In this regard, we have also proposed as a parliamentary group of certain amendments when it comes to members and deputies of certain committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. True, there has been a change, first of all, because there has been a rotation among MPs. But I have to take advantage of today, first because of the citizens of Serbia, to explain how important it was during the period of participation of Professor Predrag Markovic, our distinguished colleague Jelica Sretenovic, Mrs Smilje Tishma, in all the positions they were in. Why am I saying this? Because at one point we had the resignations and professor Dr Predrag Markovic and the esteemed Jelice Sretenović. The contributions they both made on the committees they were in, I must stress, first of all, that my dear Jelice Sretenović's contribution to the Committee on Culture, because we are talking about cultural workers and this is what seems to me to be this assembly's meeting, though past, is fortunate that one great percentage of prominent artists are our colleagues and first of all on that committee to discuss how to improve what is most important for one nation, especially if it is about Serbia, and that is their culture, how to preserve tradition, how to preserve values, so to put an accent on everything that must be a guideline for all generations who come after us. It's true when you have a name like Jelica Sretenovic in that area, then it's hard to even try to find a replacement. The Socialist Party of Serbia and its President-in-Office, Mr Dacic, when he proposed to citizens the list of SPS MPs, took great care of how much each vote of citizens will hear, how much through the MPs who will be trusted as SPS candidates on the joint list with colleagues from JS Dragan Markovic Palma, how much we will actually be that voice that will be clear, accurate, defined and always popular. In the Committee on Culture, the menu will replace my esteemed, first friend, and then co-worker Dunja Simonović Bratic, as someone who will really make every effort to maintain at least that level of quality that Jelica left behind. I would like to be optimistic and hope that we can overcome it, but the name Jelica Sretenovic is not easy to overcome. So, we have a duty from the position of members and deputies of the Committee on Culture to somehow maintain this quality both in discussion and in dealing with the problems that Jelica Sretenovic had in her term as a member of parliament. On the other hand, Professor Predrag Markovic will be replaced by my esteemed Radovan Arežina, and now I really sound stereotyped, since here we are talking about people I'm a long-time friend, because the 31-year tradition of the SPS somehow brings you to the stage that after so much work together we are all really friends somewhere. We've been through all these difficult and less difficult moments, moments, years when it comes to the SPS. I won't remind myself of everything the Socialists have survived despite someone's ambitions. The tendency wasn't to survive, the tendency was to be gone. It didn't turn out to be possible and it's good that it is, so we've put the team ahead of ourselves to make everything we're doing in perspective even better than we did yesterday. Today none of us are without a chance or without space to attack you, mostly those who do nothing. It's the easiest thing to criticise from a position from which you have extra time and some kind of malpractice as opposed to anyone, to a group of people, to an individual, it's just the same, it never seems to me any louder those voices that are criticizing without a basis, criticizing without a cover and who in their criticism can be a bit brutal, without any limit, even those people who would always have to exist because we have to have awareness that we're human. The public discourse that happened to Serbia seems to be happening for the first time. I'm not going to say anything new, you've said it many times, you've emphasized many times under how much pressure each of us can find next to the President of the Republic of Serbia himself, which I think is rare when it happened. I have to remember that some spins, some attempts, some information that's being placed out in public with wonder in 1999, and in that effort to bring down a system. I tend to, unfortunately, believe that the matrix is exactly the same only that today is an improved way, that these epithets that may be happening even for shade and worse. I haven't gone far from the committees we're talking about, but I had to look back at that moment where it's hard to bear the title of the MP from the position from which you should take responsibility for other people's indiscriminateness, to take responsibility for other people's misdeeds, and to find it difficult to be ashamed of their shame or what younger generations might be, and they will fully understand me when I say, they say, "one classical transfer of shame." In which committees we change our members, and that is important here to say, it is about the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, and also very important at the moment, the Committee on Diaspora and Serbs in the region, the Committee on the Rights of the Child and the Committee on Culture and Information. What do we expect this change will bring? First of all, continuity, I said that a little while ago, but perhaps in meeting all that is coming to us, and we have an important decision to make and a debate in the 2022 budget, and it seems to me that this role of the Committee is very important. There are no colleagues of Risticevic to confirm this theory of mine, but I am convinced that what is agreed on the board notices ahead and sometimes, or often, there is always one good prerequisite for a quality discussion in the tide. Dear counterpart Dejan Radenkovic, I remind you, this is not his first term, one of the founders, first of all, of the Green Parliamentary Group, as an informal group, will take a seat on the Committee on Environmental Protection, by the logic of things, it belongs to him there. Dejan Radenkovic, when the Green Parliament Group was formed, had the idea that we would commit a little more to protecting the environment, to pay a little more attention to the way we live and the way we treat nature, probably then or certainly then, not knowing that nature would get so harshly revenged through something called Kovid-19 and the monster that the whole world has been wrestling with for the last two years, even if it wasn't only natural, even if we believed or were inclined to think that it was something that came out of the lab or escaped, however, are victims and problems that have arisen enormous. As far as Serbia is concerned, we may have had the opportunity to see it, and surely we have had better luck than many countries in the region and beyond, that we have recognized the danger and reacted in time as a state. What we are doing today, I will also use my exposure to appeal to the citizens of Serbia that due to the availability of absolutely all vaccines that have been verified really take advantage of the possibility and are vaccinated in such a way as to protect themselves and protect their environment. No matter how skeptical we are, no matter how... Maybe even out of spite, we rarely react in a way that we reject what is available, but it still needs to be measured through the prism of all those people have lost their loved ones within a day or two without assuming that such a situation can happen. So we can't play with what human life is. In that sense, the state was responsible. In that sense, the government was responsible, provided everything that was up to it, that citizens had available health care, available vaccines, even with the possibility, I said already, choices depending on which direction your trust goes. It is up to us as citizens of Serbia to just take advantage of the possibility that has been given to us, even when we decide to reject it eventually, we need to remember all those people who do not have that option, and our neighbours are either residents anywhere on the globe, because there is no health care system as well as in Serbia, not even close. I believe that such people would not understand our anti-vaxer policy, as I believe that to a good extent behind it all those who have no concrete political ideas to improve life except themselves. I'm almost convinced that if you asked them how to make them better, you'd get a very nice answer, a very nice plan, a very well-designed concept, but if you asked any of them how to improve the lives of our neighbors, our families, our citizens, you wouldn't get that answer. I think we've all been in this room and shown in the past year that we've been responsible and aware of the responsibility that we've been given by trust, and in that sense, everything we've done, and we've done absolutely enough, we've done in the direction of improving the quality of life, so the vaccines and all the decisions and all the regulations and all the laws that have been made, and they've just been caused by the pandemic Kovida-19, we've been express, we've all talked about, we've been looking for the best solution, and it seems to me that's exactly what the citizens of Serbia have provided. Everything else is no longer up to us, except another attempt to really appeal to the citizens of Serbia to take advantage of the possibility and thus protect themselves and its environment. My colleague, Djordje Milicevic, also spoke about the changes that will take place in the Republic Election Commission, as a result of the negotiations that took place between parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties. I'm not going to go into the details because George was exhausted and in the end he'll probably have something else to say until the end of all this, but it's also important to point out, and it's that we had the awareness and willingness to, despite the lack of percentage that the ruling majority won, give our hand and help, improve and bring all systems solutions to make it easier for all those who have a good will to participate in the elections and for those who are not subject to the cowardice to reflect in a way that on charges that something is not in accordance with the law and that something is not democratic to try to boycott the elections to hide their failure. It's somewhere a matrix that we've also looked back years ago and nothing new is going to happen if it's out of 1% of what they're calling themselves and they're calling themselves a political factor one more time. So, I'm going to end up here because I've spent too much time, but I really think it's very important that all the changes, that all the duties that one MP has as part of his mandate we speak out loud because we're going to... In fact, we would have to be aware that this is actually the only building in the state of Serbia that remembers every word spoken and remembers every silence and somewhere it seems to me that when history is judged by judges might be worse about that silence than about what we said. The one who had enough time, will, experience, needs had something to read and if analyticalally returned when it came to the work of parliament and at some other age. So I came up with information about the famous Radenko Mandic, a folk hero, a communist from Ravna Gora, as he called himself, who was the only one who voted against the 1974 Constitution. It took many decades to figure out how much Radenko Mandic was right at the time. Unfortunately, he was in the minority, but it is good from this distance to know that even when you are Radenko Mandic there are some generations that will read about what you then tried to explain to your colleagues, they did not understand you, so they may not repeat the mistake these colleagues had at the time. We will certainly support all the proposed laws but also the changes behind which we stand in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10245	I thank the honourable People's MP, Snezana Paunovic. I give the word to the representative of the Legislative Club Aleksandar Vukic – To our children, Aleksandra Mirković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10246	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, fellow Members of the People, at the very beginning of course I would like to point out that the Legislative Group of Aleksandar Vukic – For our children in the voting day, support all these proposals, but also to point out that in some future time when we are able to support the proposals of opposition representatives that will be an integral part of the RIK, we will vote for it, but we will talk about this later. Let's take it in a row. I think that the previous fellow Members of the People who were both authorised promoters and authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups said a lot of things and I think that your presentations were very good, constructive and that they hit the bottom line. I think it's the wrong consciousness in people who, when they see that these are the points of the agenda in front of the MPs, feel that it's not very important or that we don't need to pay much attention to it. I also think that Mrs Paunovic pointed out in her previous presentation how important such discussions and polemics are and how important it is to take seriously every change that takes place on boards. We also cannot help but notice that RIK is some body that has recently been exposed to the most difficult attacks although they are not currently in the very essence of their work, nor have the elections been called. We are witnessing that much is said, calculated and aware that individual representatives of the opposition are using every opportunity for RIK, whatever they call it, to point out a bunch of lies and lies, and all with the goal of somehow justify their boycott or their fear of electoral debacle. I think that every MP before me discussed it and stressed the importance of the dialogue that was conducted on two sides, if we say so, with and without the presence of foreigners and I think that the agreements agreed and those solutions that we could hear here are something that was not remembered not only in our country, but also in Europe. You can't find such concessions, I'll say it freely, which came from a constructive dialogue anywhere in Europe. You don't have a situation like this anywhere, and you don't have any such electoral conditions. Why am I stressing this? The strongest critics of electoral conditions today in our country in those people who were in power until 2012, who until then won the same electoral conditions, who at that time tried to degrade the opposition and representatives of the association of citizens or anyone who didn't think the same thing as they didn't respect any single proposal without talking about demands, and the same people today are trying in every way possible to degrade everything that has been achieved in the dialogue. When I talk about these people, I think about Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and this Lutovac, who is president of the DS today, but you can see for yourself that from one party of the DS regime, five or six parties that now have the same policy are just different names. In a plastic case, it looks like this - the free elections agreement has been defined by the strongest critics on four sides, the last party on which the signatories are located, all three sides, two and a half of which are dedicated to the media. This comes to the first thing that Dragan Gilas is obsessed with the media and these demands that are here are best shown. Namely, they came up with an idea which is of course only in the interest of Dragan Gilas, that in order to ensure equal access to the media, pluralism in the media, professional standards are formed by some Public Information Co-ordination Body, which continues to be called KTI, and it will start with work no later than 15 days after the adoption of the agreement. What's interesting about this? The members of this working body are representatives of political entities that are only within the framework of the European Parliament-sponsored dialogue and have defined this agreement with the same number of representatives of the authorities and the opposition and one representative of the press associations. This is where we get the key stuff. It is important for them to have only those who are signatories in the working body – not to strangle Belgrade, DS, Free Citizens' Movement, Together for Serbia – Zelenovic and the Turnover Movement of Janko Veseinovic, of course with the first among them Dragan Djilas. What's more interesting? They're here looking for a part of the working body to become representatives of the press associations next to them. This is interesting, why – because Dragan Gilas financed one of those news associations with as many as six million dinars in the form of some kind of loan. Just today we didn't realize how you came as a journalistic association to have a politician, a former mayor, a former state official, now pretendant in power loan you that kind of money. What's further interesting is that all their demands concern the media. Among the first requirements is the following – that three times a week the representatives of the opposition who reached this agreement, so they alone can visit the show on the first RTS programmes for 30 minutes in a given time, between 18:30 and 19.00 hours. No other opposition parties which are not signatories to this Agreement, or those parties that participated in dialogue without the intervention of foreigners, shall be listed here. So, just them. Also, three times a week equal to the number of representatives of the government and the opposition that reached the agreement, they again participate in 90-minute debate-related shows that will be broadcast on the first RTS and RTS programmes in 2100 hours, both they and the representatives of the government, but what is interesting and what the citizens immediately fell behind, as the people say, is that these demands do not stand anywhere and define how the representatives of the authorities will be able to address the citizens of Serbia. So, just them and their minutes. Furthermore, this request contains the largest paradox that only shows how much their hypocrisy is, and it is illustrated in the following – we also require that it be provided to independent media and organisations, and now strictly listed, Beta, FoNet, Truth-maker, CRIK, CINS, BIRN, Time, twice a week broadcast their independent content on RTS programs twice a week. How independent they are, I think that citizens know it best, see it also because none of these media has ever referred to a single question that is of interest to the citizens of Serbia, nor has he referred one critical opinion to all that Dragan Gilas was doing until 2012. It is also symptomatic that some other media and other organisations are not listed here, which Dragan Gilas throws out at his conferences, insults in the worst possible way and failures. This is where all of this just concludes how independent all of these media are. Also, in order to narrow the room for the people who are leading Serbia today to the least possible frameworks, it says the following - prohibit reporting on the activities of state officials who are on election lists during the campaign, except when it comes to pre-planned state work or emergency circumstances, under which the views of elected, appointed and appointed persons will not be transmitted. So, you have here, in fact, a request that no one on any SNS or SPS list, and performs any state function, must say anything during that period, which de facto means that these days would be banned from any project and is being implemented in our country. So everything has to stop, in order for Dragan Gilas to get an adequate time from his angle, that he should address the citizens, that he should address the nation. You can see his selfishness here. If we add another very interesting thing to all of this, if they wanted to separate the elections, that's what their agreement says, to separate the dates of local, republican and presidential elections, if we apply their logic, we need three electoral processes, multiply by days how long the election processes are, plus these 10 days they have demanded, in fact Serbia would have to remain paralyzed for more than three months. In their time, Serbia was paralyzed every day because they did nothing, but only meant personal interest and personal wealth. And today, in the time of the crown of crisis and the incredible progress of our economy, we don't have time to lose a single day. From this you can see how selfish they are in their demands and how much they care about their personal interests. However, what is particularly interesting and these are two more details that I will set aside and then move on to something else, they have asked to ensure, be careful now, one-third of the permanent composition of RIK, to be representatives of the opposition that participated in the definition of this agreement. So one-third of the RIK members belong to only them. And there's no other opposition party in our country, there's no one else, there's just them, and there's one third. For Serbian citizens, RIK is forming, as counterpart Milicevic said, compared to percentages and representation in the republican parliament. They are out of parliament, they have no basis for being part of the RIK. But no less or less, they ask for a third, for it belongs to them. How many ruling majority, how far the dialogue has gone, also says that instead of being 17, we will have as many as 23 members of RIK, 17 under this old rule, plus six additional members of RIK who are not part of parliament and who, on no basis could be up to these changes, by the system that three representatives will give the signatories of this agreement, so, Djilas, Lutovac, the movement of Zelenovic and who are still with them, while the other three representatives will give representatives who participated in the dialogue without interference of the MEPs and foreigners -- the Dvori movement, the "Saillers" party, "Enough" and others. So here you can best see how much the ruling majority is willing to dialogue and how much we do things that have never been done in our country, but this is not the example you'll find in Europe either. For the very end of their nebuloses and all that they have stated here, and they are angry at why the Europarliamentaries referred them to the fact that the electoral conditions are quite correct, that elections must be attended and should be held, says the fact that in the name of the list there can only be someone who is a candidate on that list, and that only one of the candidates on that list can be. Why am I stressing this to you? They're going here on purpose on behalf of President Alexander Vukitch. So it was an opportunity for Dragan Gilas to say -- well, Alexander Vukic has lost absolute support for the citizens, we know it from the research, we see and we will strongly defeat him in the elections. If so, why in this way do you want to prevent the possibility that somewhere in the SNS list has the name Alexander Vukic, as it was now for our children - Aleksandar Vukic. If you're so sure of your victory, you'd have to demand that the lists bear the name of the party president and by that system, then you'd have a resolved situation. Alexander Vukic is so unpopular, he does nothing for Serbia and our citizens. You're saying he's a thief, a criminal, a dictator, so shouldn't you be the first one to wish such a man were the bearer of our list? But, well, we'll do a lot more wonders. Now let's move on to something much more concrete and first of all concerns the interest of the citizens of Serbia and of all people who will participate in the election process that awaits us in April. As I have stated, my personal opinion is that the dialogue without the intervention of the MEPs was much more concrete, more demanding in this regard, because on the other hand the representatives of the opposition were very concrete, direct and involved in creating all these demands and came up with some proposals aimed at going to the elections. What Gilas was doing was just trying to hide this cheap pamphlet from some possible election failure. The things that have been agreed on are a kind of precedent in the world, and you won't find them anywhere, but as I said before, they're divided into multiple items and I've already processed it first, and it's about election bodies. So instead of 17 going to 23 RIK members. We'll see if Gilas and his other associates can make proposals for these RIK representatives. In this way you allow full control of the electoral process to anyone who has so far accused us of not being fair with us and that they are somehow discriminated against. What is particularly important, I think, is that it is also the change that is happening in the electoral post and how it will work as far as the results sent to RIK are concerned. Therefore, the entry of data on voting results from polling stations will be transferred to the RIK web presentation from the beginning to the end. Also, the part where each voter will have the right to vote from the election authority responsible for keeping the election material requires information on whether a copy of the voter's list has been recorded as voting. Since they keep saying they vote, away from it, people who are dead, to vote someone who hasn't even gone to the polls, this is how it's prevented. Well, I want to see if I'm enrolled, if anyone has misused my right and if anyone has voted in my place. What is particularly important is to point out that there have been changes in the election run. By law on the election of MPs, the number of voters required to submit a national minority electoral list should be reduced to 5,000 in the election for MPs. It also reduces the number of voters' signatures relative to local self-governments from, to borders, no longer binds to the council, but attaches to the number of voters on the only local self-government, allowing more citizens' movements to run again, the parties, because they will need a smaller number of signatures. As far as the voter's list is concerned, we've had opportunities to hear various criticisms. Now we've had some changes. The government of the Republic of Serbia will form a working group for the external control of the single polling list involving all parties involved in this dialogue. Also on the team will be representatives of the RIK, as well as three representatives of other opposition parties, who show interest. So anyone who shows interest in this, to be interested, can become a part of this. As for election day and voting, there are even more steps in even greater transparency. The bill on the election of MPs will provide that when the voter votes outside the polling post, at least one of the three trustees of the election board who go to the voters must be a representative of the opposition. That's the part where someone was prevented from coming to the polls. A three-man commission is being formed. Usually those who are not interested in the electoral process, those people who know they're losing the election, so they hate to go to the voters, to his house or apartment, this undertakes to make one of those three members represent the opposition and thus guarantee that no malfeasance or abuse of citizens' trust will come. It also provides for the right of domestic and foreign observers to monitor the work of the election board all the time, so from receiving the material from the forwarding of the number of votes. What's particularly interesting to me is the fact that somewhere it stands out and that we have to encourage opposition controllers. Such a term and treatment has not been used anywhere, but, here, and in this way it wants to show full transparency. Namely, the position of representatives of the opposition electoral lists, according to Article 2. – The president of the electoral committee must also point out that it encourages representatives of opposition parties on the electoral committee to check certain electoral actions, including whether they are well-classified and invalid ballots, whether they are well-counted votes that have received individual lists. So now the president of the election board will be tasked with dragging representatives of the Party of Freedom and Justice, Dragan Gilas, and telling him – here, look at the results, here's something in the voter's list to see if it's not right, here's these ballots, here's a count of the SNS lists. So, it's been so detailed that it's been thought about this part as well. Also, besides all this, there is a restriction for public officials. So what's being said, there won't be any more opportunities for public officials to function. It's accepted, so now only the part where we're talking about what's going on with what's left of the censorship 3% and whether now the Party of Freedom and Justice of Dragan Gilas is going to go to elections and whether everything we talked about makes sense, makes sense, or hides behind some boycott in fear of electoral failure and going into political past. Also, with this slowly ending, the amendments to the Corruption Prevention Act predicted that 10 days before the day of a vote, media cannot report on official public gatherings opening infrastructure and other facilities. So what Gilas was looking for here is fulfilled, so it would be fair to say whether they will now accept and say that they are finally electoral conditions of their taste and just as they all demanded. For the very end, for people in smaller communities and where local communities have a great purpose, this Agreement also provides that all opposition parties and all parties who want to participate in the elections, as well as groups of citizens have the right to free use of local communities' premises for their political activities, which I am just telling you and stressing to you for the simple reason that in the period when we were opposition, when we were trying to get one term and pay it, we couldn't, but we were kicked out, and we held meetings in front of local communities and in the open with citizens. For the very end, along with these elections, any other, whatever they wanted and whatever it was, it's too important to have the support of Serbian citizens, which they don't have. If this agreement provided that the government for that part of the opposition was worth three times more than the vote coming to the SNS would not be able to defeat us, because SNS and President Alexander Vukic's policy implies the result, the fulfilled promises, but also a vision that guarantees a better and better future for all our children and generations to come. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10247	I thank the honourable MP Mirkovic for his explanations and explanations. We're moving on to the speaker list. The first on the list is the representative of the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation – United Peasants' Party, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10248	Thank you, Vice President. Otherwise, I am, as president of the United Peasants' Party, and an MP at the MP's club together with the Justice and Reconciliation Party, where we work together in the interests of all the citizens of our country of Serbia, whether they live with us in Srvlig, the White Palanca, Gajina Han, whether they live in Prijepolje, Sjenica, Tutin, whether they live in Subotica, it is common interest for every citizen to be good, for every man to live normal, for any religion, whether it is Orthodox religion, whether it is Islamic or some other religion. We, within our club, as you said, Mr. Krkobic, have shown that there can be co-operation, there must be mutual respect, because that only results. The result of all of this is that we can stand together, work together, and see how good it is to live normally, when there's no tension and when we stand for those normal things, and that's family, that's a homecoming performance, that's respect for every man, anywhere he lives. I will be here as a representative and president of the United Peasants' Party, within the framework of this parliamentary club we've been working with here together, back here for nearly seven, eight months... It has proved to be working in the best way, it has proved that these people who are with me at the MP's club are extremely correct, that they respect me, that they respect me, that I respect them, and the essence of it is that we respect our country of Serbia, we respect that our country of Serbia is going forward, that there is justice, that there is reconciliation, that there is respect. Once again, dear colleagues, we are an example of how to work, how to function, because that is the only way we can move forward. Otherwise, I participated, normally, in front of the United Peasants' Party and in these negotiations, where it turned out that we as people here in the Assembly who represent certain political groups have interest, we have a desire that everyone can participate in the elections, that anyone who wants to be equal and that, with the support of the citizens, enters the Assembly here and says those things that they are delegated to. Once again, I will normally, as president of the United Peasants' Party and within this club I was talking about, the Justice and Reconciliation Party – the United Peasant Party, support the proposals, because these proposals we have proposed are very high-quality proposals. Otherwise, at all times, I am not ashamed to say that I work together with people and that these people who are with me, people are very correct, honest, and we all want the best for our country Serbia and in any part of the country to live. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10249	I thank the honourable MP, the next on the list is the honourable MP, Slavenko Unkovic, president of the Single Serbia Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10250	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, so that elections can be a fair condition is that participants in the election campaign come from approximately the same positions. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to ensure the equality of participants in the candidacy process, to prevent abuses in the financing of the election campaign and to prevent abuses in the use of public resources in the election campaign. The key role in ensuring the integrity of the electoral process is the electoral administration, i.e. the RIK. The key objective of the RIK is to ensure that the vote is held in secret, that the vote is counted, that the report is conducted fairly and that the official results of the vote are made public. According to our Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, RIK shall be composed of the President, 16 members of the Commission, the Secretary of the Commission and the Representative of the Republic Bureau of Statistics. The president, members and secretaries have their deputies who have the same rights and obligations, as well as members who replace them. Which is very important, everyone has to be a graduate lawyer. So we will support the proposal of the Justice and Reconciliation Party when it comes to their proposal for a deputy member of the Electoral Commission. It is known that the ruling coalition has expressed its readiness to sit down and discuss with the opposition to improve, improve and move forward, and the process began several months ago in order to see the opposition's real demands, discuss them and bring about some document that would contribute to improving election procedures. We know how much time the opposition spent trying to negotiate with the authorities. For months, they could not agree on a platform of negotiations, deal with their internal divisions, vanitys and uncleared accounts from the past, and ultimately resulted in negotiations with the opposition in two columns. That part of the opposition that wanted to mediate Europarliamentaries, thinking that foreigners would fully represent their views and opposition that did not want to confuse foreigners, but think that we could solve our internal problems ourselves. The opposition, which wanted the intervention of MEPs despite all the concessions made despite the government's desire to reach a correct solution, were not satisfied with the proposal that the MEPs had proposed to charge them now, as they did not propose a document that was only appropriate to them. Simply put, the opposition wasn't exactly what it wanted, they weren't even in some situations clear of what they didn't want. So the confusion ended with accusations at the expense of European intermediaries. According to the European MPs, the proposed measures put into the document are feasible and would help create confidence for all those who want to change politics in Serbia for the benefit of citizens. The opposition's negative attitude towards the Europarliamentarian working document does not mean a boycott of the election itself, because they know how wrong they were last time they didn't go to the election. Members of the Working Party for Inter-party Dialogue without the intermediation of foreigners, after weeks of negotiations, reached an agreement on a final document on improving electoral conditions. This resulted in the signing of the agreement the other day. This is indeed a precedent in our multi-party system, so that, in this way, by various concessions, there is an improvement in the solution to some of the electoral topics that were, by the way, the opposition parties when they were part of the government and set up. This is where Parliament Speaker Mr. Dacic showed a great degree of understanding, tolerance and desire to make a deal. The dialogue, communication and co-operation between the various political forces are key to the democratic development of our society, and thus has been managed by the president of Serbia, Mr Vukic, as well as by President Dacic, regardless of all the indifferences and indiscipline that opposition parties have been exhibiting all this time. There are more things that will probably help to improve some processes and procedures during the election campaign, which are also part of this agreement. An expansion of RIK with six members and six opposition deputies has been envisioned. This is one of the most important points of the agreement. Of these six members and deputies, three members are proposing opposition parties that requested the presence of MEPs in the talks, and three are proposing an opposition that reached an agreement with the authorities the other day. This requires a change in the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, because everything else would be contrary to the law. It seems to me that the biggest job will be on the ballot, which has been updated in recent years. A large job is expected from RIK, i.e. a working group for external control of the voter's list will be formed. Automatic scan will be enabled, comparison of the list from the polling place with the contents of the unique ballot, comparison with the death certificate, as well as the valid ID card database. It is very important to ban the keeping of parallel lists at the polling station, the use of a mobile phone, and that only members of the election board can be at the polling station. If it is established that some persons have been registered to vote and have not been present, RIK is obliged to file criminal charges. Every member of the electoral commission has the right to see into the overall election material and this is certainly very important. It remains in force to amend the law, which provides for the signing of voters who support the electoral lists can, in addition to public notebooks, also be certified by municipal verifyers. It is also significant that the number of signatures required to submit the list is reduced in terms of parliamentary and rural elections, and for local elections, the number of signatures depends not on the number of committees in local self-government units, but on the number of voters on the day of the vote. Also, the paper on party financing is very important, and in any case, this kind of agreement has been happening for the first time in our political life in the last 30 years, and all in the desire for elections to flow into the democratic atmosphere. Another important aspect of the equality of campaign participants concerns their pre-election representation in the media, all in order for voters to have freedom in forming their opinions. Under the deal, a supervisory body will be formed on the media to ensure political pluralism and professional expertise. The body will make up 12 members, half of whom will propose REM, and the rest will propose opposition, probably 3+3. The temporary supervisory authority will adopt a binding regulation for public media services and recommendations for private broadcasters with national frequency, which refers to the presentation of candidate programmes, election lists during the election campaign. The implementation of the agreement will be accompanied by an inter-party dialogue control body, in which it will be composed, alongside the signatories of documents, and by representatives of the government and ministries, as well as members of other opposition parties. Certainly, the good news is that after these elections, the dialogue on the possibility of structural changes in the electoral system will continue with us. For Unique Serbia, these are acceptable solutions and we will support all proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10251	Thank you. We're moving on. Next on the list is Honorable MP Vuk Mircetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10252	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are talking about a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the termination of office and appointment in the Republic Election Commission and a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In line with this, first of all, I want to remind myself of some important facts that were the precondition that we can talk about today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia about everything it promotes, I think it promotes our Serbia. Payments to our senior citizens and recipients started yesterday, as we announced, amounting to 30 euros, and today they are starting to pay to all other full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have achieved the conditions. The total number of these citizens exceeds 5.7 million full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's how we want to show that citizens are our first priority and take care of them. Our pensioners, those of whom we inherited our country, will also receive another 20 euros in December, and 20,000 dinars will receive all pensioners, as we have already announced. That'll be most likely in late February. We managed to preserve both production capacities and jobs, so the unemployment rate is currently at some level that it was at before this pandemic. Helping the economy and citizens through the three packages we talked about here several times in the tide is worth about eight billion euros, or 17.3% of GDP. Because we now have stable finances, we can certainly talk about some projections for next year. For example, salary growth is planned next year and will be between 7% and 8%, in the public sector the increase in minimum earnings is expected to be 9.4% and the pension is an additional 5.5%. What does that mean? This means that we now have good finances, stable finances and opportunities to raise both salaries and pensions. The average wage growth will be 7.4%, while for healthcare professionals, you know that we have had a variety of increases and various aids for healthcare professionals, given that they are indeed on the front line of our country's defence and that our state needs to help and show that we value them and that they are important to us, therefore, for healthcare workers, and for all, as well as for members of the military and for workers in the social sphere, growth will be an additional 8%. These are exceptional results and facts. We're coming up with a minimum profit planned to be 35.025 dinars. We have talked about this more than once, in January the average salary will be 610 euros. Some projections from the ministry, the finance ministry is that the average salary will be as much as 618 euros, and compared to the period when President Aleksandar Vukic was prime minister, I will remind you that at that time the average salary was 330 euros. So, we are now talking about a minimum profit that will be 35.025 dinars in some subsequent period, and before just such a short period, the average earnings would be 330 euros. If we talk about pensions and look at pensions, look at this trend in pension growth, we will see that every year there is a certain trend in pension growth, that every year we pay our senior citizens one-offs, or we give them attention to one-offs. We heard exactly, and we heard in previous days, that Serbia was progressing and taking care of its citizens during the SNS rule, and I would now look back on something a little different. I have to notice, of course, according to this, so we'll do one parallel later, I have to notice a large number of so-called. opposition leaders. We're a little bit, little bit, so we have a chance to hear that some opposition leader has appeared and that a new opposition leader has appeared. The number of these opposition leaders almost exceeds the number of their followers. But that's not what's most interesting, some other things are more interesting. Almost all opposition leaders and opposition politicians represent recycled politicians from the past, i.e. to be precise, these are mostly the remains of the Democratic Party. These remains of the Democratic Party were at some point due to various disagreements, personal interests, etc., disagreements, they split up and decided to make DS smaller parties, because they thought that they would be able to tell the people something new and come back to power. Of course, at the head of all of them, as we all know very well, is Dragan Gilas, whom the citizens know very well how he worked and how much he worked, or did not work while he was mayor. Since we are talking about a man who is certainly aware of what the people of the Republic of Serbia think of him, some other people are pushing into the front lines of his party. It is Marinika Tepic, Borko Stefanovic and others. I talked to a colleague a while ago, more specifically, a fellow citizen, about Bork Stefanovic, and I said, that's interesting, I'd like to share here in the tide, I said – a man named Borislav Stefanovic. She interrupted me and said – as he called everything Borislav Stefanovic, what happened to him? I explained that the man is no longer called Borislav, but is called Borko, since when he led leftica Serbia, therefore the party that is part of the DS again, he reported the name of his electoral list as Borko Stefanovic, since it is known as Borko Stefanovic in the people, however, since the man is not called Borko Stefanovic, he was legally unable to report the list. It was easier for him too to change his name from Borislav to Borko than to reassemble the signatures, since he knows how hard he has collected signatures in the first part of the signing. But what's interesting now, about a week ago, we had a session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. It was attended by representatives of the extraparliamentary opposition. We had a chance to see at that meeting of the board of men, he is a senior official of the Jeremic party, not knowing which party he comes from. Instead of saying he was coming from the People's Party, the man said he was coming from an advanced party. Who is interested in looking, of course, can do so on YouTube channel of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's very interesting, so look, just so you know what we're talking about and what representatives of the opposition we're talking about. Former Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic, then in front of the Democratic Party, heads the Social Democratic Party of Serbia today, so another branch of the Democratic Party. I don't want 'em all, 'cause there's plenty of 'em. We have Zoran Zivkovic, of course. Zoran Zivkovic is the founder of the New Party, and he even served as president of the Democratic Party. Now that we've counted all of this, when we see who we're dealing with and what these people are saying -- they're going in columns, we have to ask one question, which I honestly don't understand, and I'd like someone to give me an answer to. Who is he uniting with? Who is uniting with whom, given that they are all representatives of the previous government and the Democratic Party? To make what was obviously even more obvious and even clearer, I'm going to remind you of another event. I'd just like to ask the director to help. I'll show you two photos. On February 3, 2010, the Democratic Party marked the party's 20-year existence in New Belgrade, and for these needs they create one, such a large publication. It contains almost all these people I just counted. Here, that's how we get the chance, I'll just read it. So on February 3, 2010, Dragoljub Micunovic, one of the founders and first president of the Democratic Party, spoke at the ceremony and welcomed numerous guests about the role and place of the Democratic Party in the Republic of Serbia, President Boris Tadic. So, President Boris Tadic, here he is in the picture, speaking at the Democratic Party Assembly, the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic speaks at the Democratic Party Assembly on the Democratic Party. We mentioned Zoran Zivkovic earlier, here is Zoran Zivkovic with the same team, Boris Tadic. So we have a former president, V.D. The president of the Democratic Party, Zoran Zivkovic, and I will say again, almost everyone I have mentioned so far is in this book, and therefore, the book of which is the publisher of the Democratic Party, says that these are in fact all people who are from the same column. When they tell you, and they say they go into multiple columns, different columns, and now they're considering whether to unite into one column or to go into multiple columns. So wait, people, if you've split up, if you've had a fight, if you've had some disagreements and decided to leave the Democratic Party, to make your own parties, to try it that way, why should you unite now? So they unite because they saw and they know very well what I was talking about in the first part of the talk. They make it clear that the government registers are full again, and they are interesting, and they are interesting to those people who are proven to be guided by personal interests. Since they know what the people think of them, their mechanisms are quite similar, they are left with nothing but insult, to threaten. We all know very well how many times they threatened the president of the Republic of Serbia and his family, not to name the children again, and members of the SNS. What is even more interesting, more than once, I would really commend my fellow Members and fellow Members of the people, who, both here and in their statements, have proved that the representatives of the former Democratic Party, or former representatives of the democratic government, and now more columns led by Dragan Gilas, have proved that they are making false. They've proven it argumentarily. And when they no longer know what they're going to talk about, here's the most interesting thing they're talking about, they're talking about our president wearing a roll, why our president's wearing a roll. And then they wonder that they don't have the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Well, they don't have it because it offers a roll. What's very interesting is that on one television that is controlled by Dragan Gilas even said, says – Aleksandar Vukic wears a roll, because it's easier for him to pull it over his head when he's running from Serbia, so they don't recognize him. And I ask you, what would he run for? To pride, everything Alexander Vukic did for both Serbia and the SNS. And I personally think there is no person better than him to lead both Serbia and the SNS. Their threats should be answered by work, arguments, combativity, conversations with citizens and, most importantly, by all of us to contribute to solving their problems. In the voting day, I will support the proposals that we are discussing today, and it is up to the people to say in April whether it is for Serbia to continue to be appreciated in the world, to continue to have an increase in wages and pensions or to want those who have already been in power and those who have shown what they can, or, as we have already said, what they can't and they haven't been able to cooperate, and now they would be united and co-operated, because now they know better. Personally, I believe that normal and decent Serbia must win. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10253	Thank you. The word is Muamer Bačevac, a representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10254	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the elections for the most significant levels of government, parliament and president in this country, as well as elections for national councils of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, as you know, are being held by the Republic Election Commission. The basic responsibility of the RIK, as we say in short, is to deal with and take care of the legality of the electoral process itself. I must say that this body in parliamentary democracies, even in our country, is also elected by this Assembly. The permanent composition of the RIK has 16 members and presidents, who have their deputies, and are elected for four years, on a proposal by parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. In our proposal to amend the electoral law, however, we in the SDP have indicated that the permanent composition of the RIK is mainly made up of professionals elected to compete and to be non-party figures, not to be delegated as so far by political parties. We think that in order to be equal, the electoral commission should be composed of the most valuable experts in the field of electoral law and electoral systems. Their mandate would certainly have to last longer than four years, envisioning the duration of each MP's term of office. We believe that professionalising, i.e. by forming a state electoral commission, would strengthen mechanisms for more effective control of all participants in the electoral process. If we look at the environment, we'll see that similar things happen in the surrounding countries. For example, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have an absolutely professionalized commission and let me say that under the conditions of extra-party, or out-of-election activities and other activities, they have responsibilities from areas that they have, for example. our REM or our Anti-Corruption Agency, so they've been working all year and have activities all year round, which is very, very good. In the surrounding countries, it continues to seek more transparent work by the electoral authorities. That's what we've been trying for, and what we've been doing for ten years, so for example. and Montenegro, within the framework of this commission, involved members of the academic community of the NGO sector. For me, the most important thing is that we do a lot of work in this field, and probably the most important thing that we have done first of all to make all RIK sessions available, and any citizen can be involved during the session and directly follow the RIK session, which is an extremely significant information to me. Of course, the sessions are open to both the public and all the press, and that's a big deal. Furthermore, the RIK in its election process seeks to improve its work by adopting both sublegal acts, implementing training and education and in any other way within the framework of its powers. In the past decade, especially in the past few years, RIK's work has been greatly improved. First of all, so-called. the control form as an auxiliary tool for properly filled in the paper on the work of the electoral committees, which has had a major impact on the increased value of the minutes. The important news is the publication, the scan of the voter committee's work on the RIK website immediately after the vote is completed, which is very important. We received both a transparent and clearer mechanism and made it impossible to ask any questions and question the regularity of the election process itself. Also, RIK formed a special Working Group to discuss issues of importance for the participation of persons with disabilities in the electoral process and made a decision to assess the accessibility of polling stations in order to improve the situation of people with disabilities in the election process. So it was also about human rights, in this case the basic right to vote persons with disabilities. Identification cards have been introduced for members of the electoral committees, and I consider as the most significant contribution to the promotion of RIK in the implementation of training and education. Since December 2019, RIK has conducted training for more than 540 instructors who then trained local self-government units to train members in the permanent composition of election committees for more than 57 and 200 000 persons. Given that education is the basis for improving the implementation of the RIK electoral process, he has organised and implemented the training of instructors to train potential members and the extended composition of election committees. In all this RIK has made, printed and made available via its home page various manuals, guides, presentations and other publications. What is also given additional attention is to improve the position of domestic and foreign observers. Furthermore, it is possible for each voter to have the right to request information on whether or not he voted in the List of Elections. I also believe that a recently agreed agreement will be reached under the Agreement to improve the conditions for holding elections in relation to an increase in the number of permanent RIKs by six members proposed by outside the parliamentary parties, although the precedent contributes to the greater public work of this authority and to greater confidence of citizens in the regularity and legality of the decisions taken by RIK in the process of implementing the next elections. This authority and this majority have indeed shown great openness to meet all the real requirements that are included by both the opposition and the non-governmental sector, and the academic community, and indeed this majority has shown one great openness to improve the electoral law and also the integrity of RIK. I have to invite all the participants to, here's a place and there should be members of the opposition, to regain integrity, and to really raise the level of democracy in our country. As far as the concrete election of RIK's deputy president is concerned, you know that, and that's what the SDPS, or my party, is about, that the deputy always comes by the opposition tradition and that it is the place in charge of the opposition. I am sorry that this will not be the case so far and that it is likely to be here, also a defacto representative of our common government, or someone who delegates Mr Zukorlic's party, which is certainly part of the government that today forms the government and all the organs of executive power in this country. In any case, I will say that any improvement in the electoral law, electoral conditions, in this case any rise in RIK integrity is extremely important for the SDPS and that we will always support such solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10255	Thank you, dear Doctor Bačevac. Next reported on the list, the honourable MP, Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10256	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we talk about RIK and staff solutions in that sense, therefore, the RIK composition, I cannot look back on the changes in the RIK composition that are yet to come. Therefore, it will follow the signing of an agreement on improving electoral conditions between parties that participated in inter-party dialogue without the intervention of foreigners. This is a very important thing for our country, because this agreement further improves electoral conditions, we improve the democratic atmosphere for the upcoming elections, and I am free to say that election conditions will now be the best conditions ever for these upcoming April elections. This does not mean, in my opinion, that the election conditions so far were bad, but simply some political options in Serbia, I think of those under the control of Dragan Gilas as still leading a strong campaign in their media that the electoral conditions in Serbia are bad, that the electoral laws are bad, that there is no democracy, that there is some dictatorship and similar nonsense. In addition to some individual changes, it is mainly electoral laws that have just been passed during their rule in Serbia. So, the vast majority of laws concerning election laws that regulate elections were passed in the period until 2012. I'm now asking, Chairman, and who is it that made these elections work, these electoral laws, these election conditions, and today they're not good? So, when they're the government, when they're running elections under those laws, then everything's fine. When they're in opposition, suddenly these election conditions aren't good. So, I will also remind Serbian citizens that the electoral laws were changed only before last election, before the 2020 elections when, I say, we made some changes to the electoral conditions, and when I say we improved them primarily, I think we improved them in favour of the opposition by reducing the censorship to 3%. So we have allowed even greater representation of the less represented sex, we have precisely regulated funding, media representation and many more things, and all in order to allow fair and fair choices. Some, however, were not enough, and then in a desire to create an alibi for the electoral debacle, they declared a boycott of the election, disqualifying themselves. Of course, they have now realized how much they have made with a boycott, how much they have thus excluded themselves from political life in Serbia. This brings us all to the present moment, to this agreement that I mentioned, in a desire to meet every political group, in a desire to have such electoral conditions that no one has any objection whatsoever. In order for the election day to be a holiday of democracy in Serbia, we have made it possible for dialogue on the so-called two tracks, let's try to figure out a way for everyone, absolutely all of them to be represented, or satisfied. As a result of this dialogue, we have an agreement on improving electoral conditions and this agreement provides, among other things, for six members, plus six deputies of the permanent RIK members to be proposed from the opposition's ranks, to be understood, from the extraparliamentary opposition, so three from the ranks of both groups of the opposition, therefore, and those who advocated, i.e. those who participated in the dialogue without the intervention of foreigners and these others. When it comes to election committees, the unparliamented opposition will be given at each polling post in Serbia by one member and deputy member in the permanent membership of the election board. They are definitely followed by a member and deputy at each polling post in the so-called extended composition, i.e. when the RIK declares an election list to them. Then, it was also agreed to strengthen the so-called middle level of the electoral authority, so that the work of the former RIK working bodies will be transferred to the municipal, or city electoral commissions. They will also be represented by a non-parliamentary opposition, in constant composition, of course, and in an extended one, when RIK declares the list. I note that all of this opposition has no right, because it's extraparliamentary, because they're extraparliamentary, because they disqualified themselves from this process. However, in order to make this possible, we will have to change a series of, or set of electoral laws, therefore, the Law on Local Elections, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, etc. In addition to all this, I would like to stress that as many as three supervisory bodies will be introduced, so to monitor the work of the media in the pre-election campaign, then, to control the regularity of the single electoral list and to monitor the overall electoral process, and many other things concerning the financing of political parties and media representation, then so on. a functional campaign, as they call it, then, transparency and control of the electoral process, etc., everything my distinguished colleague Mirkovic spoke of as an authorised representative of our parliamentary group. So we are free to say that such electoral conditions have been the best since the establishment of multilaterals in Serbia. I don't think anyone in Serbia, at least no one serious can deny this. As SNS when we were opposition, we didn't have such conditions, we didn't have about this kind of benefits, so it didn't stop us from fighting for every vote, so it didn't stop us from visiting every village in Serbia, every municipality, getting to every voter, talking to every man, presenting a political programme, presenting a plan for a better tomorrow and going to elections. On the contrary, not that we did not run away from the elections, but that we advocated early elections. We seriously advocated, ran a campaign in that sense, collected signatures, a million signatures, petitions, and that under their terms. We have gathered a million signatures from Serbian citizens to win early elections. We couldn't wait for the election, we didn't run away from the election, and on their terms. We didn't whine and we didn't run. We didn't complain about the white world. We didn't ask for various sponsors, various mentors, various Tanja Fajon, various Viola von Kramon, none of which we did, but we waited for our chance. On the contrary, as I said, we advocated early elections. We didn't get them. We won a regular election. So, then, the regime extended the election day of 2012 to the last possible moment, in order to preserve its power. And we welcomed those elections in 2012 and in those first elections that followed, although we had no media, no money, no logistics, nothing at all, the SNS won, took over power in Serbia. They defeated Serbian citizens who recognized the SNS policy and programme, just as they today recognise and support Alexander Vukic's policy and programme. The point is, and I end up with this, there are no electoral conditions and electoral laws that will lead you to power if you don't have a policy, if you don't have a program and if you don't have concrete political solutions and political ideas. If the whole policy is based on you and comes down to the mere hatred of one man – Alexander Vukic, then the citizens of Serbia see it and know that they adequately reward in the elections. So there are no such conditions or laws that will give you power without a choice, or without the support of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10257	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break. We'll continue at 15.05 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10258	We're going back to work. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10259	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, are two decisions ahead of us today, and this is a proposal for a decision to suspend the appointment in RIK and a proposal for a decision to elect members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. Two decisions confirming the normal functioning of these working bodies and carrying out operations under their jurisdiction in accordance with the applicable legal acts. When we talk about congregation committees, they represent the laws of the established bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which in their work are accompanied by the work of the Government and other bodies, bodies, and whose work is supervised by the National Assembly in accordance with the Constitution and law. The working bodies of the Assembly shall consist of MPs from the order of parliamentary groups, applying the principle of equal representation, in accordance with their parliamentary groups, or in those working bodies, shall also be taken up by MPs representing the positioning parties at that time, and by MPs representing opposition parties at that time. Not long ago, representatives of opposition states sat on our left in the House of National Assembly, but who used the House of National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for everyone, or exclusively for negative political self-promotion, and not for those old ones who would provide a better life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and did not take those actions that were in line with the Rules of Procedure and the law governing the work and work of the National Assembly of Serbia. The fact that they are not here in the House of National Assembly today is not a strange situation because they are certain representatives of today’s so - called so - called House of Commons. The opposition made a decision on the boycott of the election, which took place in June 2020, on which the list Aleksandar Vukic – won over 60% of the votes for our children. Today, we can freely say that these elections were democratic, free, fair, transparent and that the results of the elections were accepted by all relevant and international and world institutions. The election results were exclusively denied by representatives, certain representatives of today's opposition parties because the boycott decision was taken long before the first inter-party dialogue held at the Faculty of Political Sciences and the decision not to go to the elections was used as a frontline to hide the lack of its political programme and to hide the lack of support among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for all those goals and ideas they advocate today. Also, we must not forget that representatives of opposition parties had representatives here in parliament and in the House Hall of the National Assembly and in the Assembly Committees and, as I said, they used their chairs and their mandates exclusively for negative political self-promotion. We could all see these things. We could see when the board of Administrative Affairs attacked the head of the parliamentary group of Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, when Bosko Obradovic shot him with a computer mouse. Then we could see that what they were in the National Assembly gave them the right to attack Marijan Risticevic and to bleed his head, and then it was all rounded up with protests that took place in July 2020, when these same representatives of opposition parties invited citizens of the Republic of Serbia to gather in front of this high house, to stone the National Assembly, to hurt police officers and to hurt more than 100 police officers, and some members of the Interior Ministry at that time received serious physical injuries. The very decision to boycott the elections was merely a front for political failure. After the June 2020 elections, they have been representing the same mantra for a year, and long before that, that the electoral conditions in the Republic of Serbia are not good. This mantra, I think, is no longer founded from month to month because we as SNS have shown that we are one serious and responsible party, that we are always ready to talk with all policy options and that, when we approach these talks, we show a high degree of constructiveity. I would remind you that we as the strongest opposition party in 2009, 2010 and 2011 offered the citizens of the Republic of Serbia a political programme on how to get Serbia out of the tycoon claw at the moment, representatives of the former tycoon regime and a political programme to recover the fallen economy and economy. As my colleagues, both Mr. Mirkovic and Mr. Markovic, speak of it, no one at that time from the then ruling majority wanted to talk to us about anything, and at least about election conditions. I have to remind all my colleagues and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we did not, as SNS in 2008, lower the price from three to five percent to directly harm our political competitors, or the LDP party at the time, so that they could not take certain parliamentary and parliamentary seats. That's what representatives of the then DS did. When we talk about SNS, because they constantly respect us that we are not fighting for better electoral conditions at this time, although I believe, as all my colleagues, that the electoral conditions today are not double, but five times better than they were in 2012, thanks to SNS and the serious and responsible policy of Alexander Vukic, there has been a downturn of censorship from five percent to three percent to help small political parties directly to enter this parliament and to be able to represent their policy. You will remember that the first inter-party dialogue on election conditions was held at the Faculty of Political Sciences. At that time, opposition representatives made their 42 demands, where I can freely say that you do not know which was more malice and which was more negative in their policy, and under the supervision that they were fighting at that time for better electoral conditions. I'll remind you that their only request at this point was that Alexander Vukic would not be the bearer of the election list. They were looking for, like, crazy, parallel editorships on RTS and TV. Then they asked REM members to choose as they wanted and more than 30 other requirements that would directly enable them to, without a national will, free to say, enter the congregations of cities and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because they, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are not interested. I am now interested in how they asked that Aleksandar Vucic not be the bearer of the electoral list, and Boris Tadic, former president of the Republic of Serbia, was the bearer of the electoral list at all levels, i.e. in the local elections, as well as in the presidential and parliamentary elections. You were then looking for a parallel editorial policy where no editor of the information program, no editor with RTS was replaced during the rule of the SNS. Nenad Lj. Stefanovic, the editor of the information programme, was elected during the rule of the former regime. You're looking for today, so one day you're being arranged by your representatives, so the next day you're doing a college of current RTS, it's out of your mind. In doing so, you have asked for negotiations, i.e. in the talks on improving the choice of conditions to include representatives of KRIK, BIRN and other NGOs who campaign every day against Alexander Vukic and his entire family. We as one serious and constructive party say - we want to talk about election conditions. We want to listen to all your proposals to improve this election process which, again, I must say, is much better than it was before 2012. Alexander Vukic has repeatedly said this, that these are serious and responsible negotiations in which serious arguments must be found and that not all demands will probably be adopted, but that our goal is to ensure that people demonstrate their will in free and democratic elections. That's when they split into what's called. i.e. talks are being formed on improving electoral conditions on two tracks, on one track with representatives of the Europarliamentarians, on the second track without representatives of the MEPs, and what do we come up with? Representatives of the former tycoon regime and here I am talking about a column that they announce will go to the elections, which is the Party of Freedom and Justice Dragan Djilas, the People's Party Vuk Jeremic and the Democratic Party, which will likely reunite all the resolutions of the former tycoon regime and on the other side of the Green Columns, or we are not drowning Belgrade and all other movements want to talk to the MEPs but do not want to talk to representatives of their people. The special importance of these talks, which were conducted without the presence of Europeans, was given by Aleksandar Vukic with his presence and gave serious legitimacy to these talks and they all wanted to discuss election conditions. However, when the time came to finalise the agreement, that is, the document Dragan Gilas is leaving the talks. He leaves these talks and speaks at a conference, which he held during the previous week, as he was disappointed with the behaviour of the MEPs, Tanja Fajon, Mr Bilček and others, and how they will fight for freedom in their own way, and that way we just saw in July 2020 when they called on the people directly to destroy the National Assembly. Mr Bilček himself made a statement and said – if I were on a political scene, if I were a representative of a certain opposition party, I would go to the polls at the moment because election conditions are good, but only Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic cannot understand. As my colleague, Mr Mirkovic, said, I am pleased that there was a conclusion of an agreement on improving the conditions for holding elections, and we, as a SNS during these talks, showed a high degree of constructiveity and through an agreement on a future number of RIK members, where the future composition will have three representatives who will come from parties that are on track with Europarliamentarians, three members without MEPs, will have their representatives in the permanent composition of election committees. Also, there are letters from RTS, TV that there will be some changes when we talk about the programme itself, that RTS will provide a number of debate shows. We talk to the media, you still have those debate shows today. It is not our fault, representatives of the SNS, that they send their representatives to the "word to word" show on election conditions, a morning programme where each of them is defeated by SNS representatives. It's just saying that we have young people today, that we have quality people and that Alexander Vukic made no mistake in giving 40 young people the opportunity to sit here today in the home of the National Assembly and represent a serious and responsible policy. We're not going to change today's RTS and TV programming schemes so he can come by himself and talk about his crazy political programs. They run away from any dialogue and any of their guests on any show, it comes down to attacking Alexander Vukic and his family and committing criminalization and dehumanisation. You did not have these representatives from the Europarliamentary track, in no word did they make any comment in this agreement that was concluded with the remaining political parties, and I will also mention that these political parties, which concluded the agreement, gave legitimacy to the elections held in June 2020 because people wanted to fight, wanted to present their political programmes. Today, these representatives gathered around Dragan Gilas do not have a political programme. You could never hear how they would improve the health system that had completely destroyed by 2012, how they would build one meter of highway that failed to build by 2012. In 2012, we had half of the Clinical Center in Serbia. Today we have a new Clinical Center. We're reconstructing clinical centres today. We're working hundreds of miles of highway today. Today we can boast of the growth of 7.5% by the end of the year. They were taking loans at the time to secure salaries and pensions and they're saying today they'll come to power, but I really have to ask – with what political programme? The only political programme that you are uniting around is hatred for Alexander Vukic and any representative of the SNS. I will finish slowly, remember the statement by Dejan Bulatovic, who said that after they came to power, everyone will chase their adversaries, and I am telling you right now – we representatives of the SNS are sitting in the home of the National Assembly almost every day and we are standing raised heads. Let's see what happens to us advances. We will no longer put up with that policy that calls exclusively for hate and violence. I hope that in these talks we have shown a desire for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be able to go to free, democratic and fair elections and show their will, that now representatives of certain political parties have full legitimacy to go to elections, to present their political programmes, and I must tell these representatives of the former tycoon regime that cultural and decent Serbia will come out in the highest number in the upcoming April elections and that we will show here that their place is in the political dump, where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10260	Thank you, Mr. Caesar. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a participant of the famous dialogue, one and the other, Mr. Orlic, you were present, one of the former MPs called us scum or it was just me. It was mostly done by a man who had not come to work for two years, who regularly received wages and even travel expenses. Whenever he was in Belgrade, if the Assembly is ambushed, he logs in nicely, charges from Trstenik travel expenses, not coming to the session, his job is not working. We've been doing his job, and he's found it appropriate to insult us no matter what the state in the budget has done for two years, and those of us who did and his work have turned out to be, as he said, scum. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've heard that Zdravko Ponoš will be an opposition candidate. Our opposition is impossible to weaken. What an opposition such as the candidate – Zdravko Ponos. Zdravko Poš was celebrated for working for the military and the state not only for ours, but for someone else. It was mostly the states of the NATO Pact. He and Sutanovac, the defence minister, competed on who would melt more tanks, who would disarm our army more, so we didn't have a military neutral state, but militaryly neutralised. We didn't have a well-armed army but a well-armed army. It was a competition between him and the Shooter, and like they didn't love each other, but there was a contest that would melt more. Zdravko Ponoš, candidate of the opposition. I've already said, what an opposition, such as the candidate. Such an opposition is impossible to weaken. Zdravko Ponoš received the most acts of formation when it was found out that he was the husband of Tadic's sister-in-law. Astronomerically advanced, so formal, right, general, from the commander of the company, he became Chief of General Staff and served the state, but not his own. He served the NATO Pact, disarmed his own army in favour of other countries' political and national interests, not in favour of their own country's national interests. Only one plastic tank left behind Ponoš and Šutanovac, otherwise everything that could have gone to the caterpillars melted into Smedereva. After that, the Americans picked themselves up and left when they melted the weapons. However, after the change, Serbia is well-armed again and possibly a thinker's proudness, and with its speech it argues that the time has come for some well-armed army to disarm and a military neutral country to neutralize. And from there, he confirmed those allegations of me here that I have been saying to Mr. Martinovic for three years, that no one can bring down Serbia on the outside unless someone helps them inside and that these unfortunate people, I kept saying, are offering it to an external factor, which has no good intentions towards Serbia, to help them. It's kind of like this. If we were forced to change power, you would support it, then we would. They, in turn, were to complete the independence of Kosovo that they started by 2012, so they were prevented from completing independent Kosovo, so they would be working in Republika Srpska to recognise unitary Bosnia, to work on it, and to drown in unitary BiH as well. Furthermore, we would like to give up Serbs and the Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro and thus help the external factor, especially the English, those who are not very good at us, to sort out the situation in the Balkans in a certain way, but to the harm of Serbia and the Serbs, as it was while they ruled, when they vigorously assisted all others against their own country, so out of it -- thank Wolf, those in this wolf, who praise him and are calling for the opinion of the International Court of Justice that he asked for, are calling for a resolution that has been moved from the UN to the EU, so now they can't finish the job. Vuk Jeremic thinks he can put his ass back in some chairs, in airplanes, but since they don't have enough votes, because Zdravko Ponos will be a candidate, he can't win any home council elections, and if there are ten housing units, he couldn't win either by bribing or anything, they think that about if they offer themselves well to the west, that the West will help them by force, shooting, insulting, hanging, chasing in the streets, etc., closing in camps, winning power and deprive Serbia of certain parts of their territory and national interests that Serbia has in the Balkans. I was part of that dialogue and I feel a little humiliated. I would never give them what Alexander Vukitch gave them. Never. I didn't even hide that mood. Imagine when you give six members of RIK, six members to someone who is not in parliament, and RIK numbers 17 members and no party, regardless of having most MPs, it cannot have more than half, therefore it is in a certain way damaged, and yet you give six RIK members in the permanent composition of the opposition that is not present in parliament, and I think it is my sincere opinion that they do not deserve to be in parliament. Even in the works or the Sundays they have toward their own people and country, I don't think they should be on the ballot either, and they shouldn't boycott the elections and the National Assembly, but the people should boycott them, whether or not they're on the ballot, which they themselves know. Mr. Orlic, for six RIK members, we have calculated there that we need a group of 90 MPs. There's an SDA of one, etc. And that's why I'm saying -- what Alexander promised them, as president of the most powerful group in the parliamentary majority, so we supported it, but I personally would never give it to them, because they don't deserve six members of the RIK as an out-of-parliament opposition. And again, they've snuck up at the end, they say, they've got half of the media surveillance body and they've been crying again, no, like, but that's good, but we'd like something else, and that still means only power without a choice. And they claim that the elections will be stolen. Here they will receive six members of the RIK in constant composition, the one from the SDA is the seventh, and who knows who else can be found there and every election list in an extended composition that decides as well as a permanent composition in the elections and election campaign has one member and one deputy. If there are 20 lists or candidates for the president of the Republic or election lists in the parliamentary elections, they will have at least 18 other members of the RIK in the expanded composition. So, it's going to have an absolute majority in RIK, which is forbidden to the SNS here in constant composition, given that no one can have, any party, etc. I can't help but wonder if they'll delegitize the elections by not declaring with the majority at a decisive moment the election results when they see that they have one, one and a half, 0.5, 0.3, as Zivkovic seven thousand votes, etc., whether they want to declare the results of the election, whether they want to determine the result or split so there won't be a quorum, or how can I tell you, they're extremely opportunised according to RIK's work. The elections are not conducted by the government. They keep telling the public that the government will steal the election. The RIK-led election. So, from the moment of the election, the government has absolutely nothing to do with the conduct of elections except provide financial and material conditions for the elections to be held, except that it participates in some election lists with its candidates or candidates for the president of the Republic. There is no more power in the election, in the election campaign. That's what the public needs to know. It is largely carried out in full by RIK, in an extended composition, because each list that submits the application is complemented by one member and one RIK deputy. This also happens with election committees participating in election monitoring, counting in polling stations, packaging, delivery of materials, etc. Mostly, the ball is on their field, in their playground, and it is almost abnormal to claim that the government will steal elections when they will have most of the electoral committees, and in the RIK, so if elections are stolen, then they are involved, not in power, because at any time in each election board, they have a majority. Therefore, since the majority can be destructive and the elections can turn upside down, that it will not declare the result, that we have problems, so that for the sea of these various electoral actions that take place before the elections, in the course of the elections, in the course of the counting, the determination of the results, it can be that all this must be determined by the Administrative Court. Knowing them, probably when they see the results of the election and how many people they love, like Zdravko Ponos who disarmed us well and who wants to run for office, to disarm us once again, to melt what can be melted, to once again those 13, 14 moments we've acquired, to somehow house us somewhere, to be an easy target for potential territorial and aggressive appetites of the surrounding and other countries that don't think very well of us. So, I'm not sure it's a good thing we're going to give RIK members lightly, but my God, the first man of the most powerful party has decided so. And let me tell you that in REM, five members of RIK have already been given in the previous dialogue. So, the REM Council also has a majority and for the opposition, it's nothing foreign that I resented, that they support us to have foreign media, so-called. Luxembourgian meddles in these election processes. I ask you -- which country allows foreign televisions to participate in their country's electoral programme, to create it, to run electoral propaganda, electoral videos, to let even those who boycott the election work in favour of the boycott? In what country will it allow foreign television, foreign states to play such a role in their election process as do foreign Luxembourg media in our territory? So that's not possible. Imagine, in Paris, in London, in Berlin, we rent a studio in Rome and say – these are TVs from India and now we are making electoral propaganda against Macron, against Merkel or the other one who inherited it, so we are making it against the Italian government, the Italian majority. Would our televisions be allowed to do that? Like, we're cross-border television, we're not dealing with elections in Serbia, we're going to be dealing with elections in Germany, Belgium, France, Italy. Would we be allowed to do that? Our opposition's foreign interference, as well as Ponoša, is absolutely not suspicious, for them everything is feasible just so that somehow, along the way, the authorities get their hands on it, because in the elections they themselves know how hard they're going to try and earn it. One party split into 10 parties. So, Mr. Martinovic, the Democratic Party supported the disintegration itself. Let's say, "We're not strangling Belgrade", "Yellow Duck", Bastic, all those movements that have arisen. The Democratic Party was all running to support it, not knowing it was made up of their electoral body. When they fell apart into 10 different factions and 10 different parties, then it was our fault. They can't fight with themselves, they've had a fight. What do you think and how I think they can come at us fair, no matter how much we make concessions to them? I remember in 2011, there were 100,000 of us here. A hundred thousand people came without the support of one media. We didn't have this list, as it's called, "New", or "Blic", or "Today", or "Time", or "Nin", we didn't even have television channels, we didn't have a whole cable operator, etc., but we asked for elections. We only asked for elections a year before the time. So, to organise early elections from the authorities that at that time enjoyed the support of 25% of the electoral body, not anymore. So, there were legitimate conditions to organise elections at least a year earlier, and the government rested on 128, well embedded in the budget, the MPs who only argued about who got what. There were legitimate conditions to discuss early elections for at least a year. Not that they didn't give it to us, they were making fun of us. Then, on the leased term at Copernicus, two hours, when these journalists show up, they say- come on, you are not journalists, as Dragan Gilas today treats journalists who do not work in the Šolakovi and Gilas media. He says – you are not the media, etc. Freedom of the media is the rule of law. They're full of mouths, but, let's say, NUNS takes money from Gilas, so let's say, when something happens to a reporter who's objectively reporting to someone else, when something happens to him NUNS doesn't interfere with his affairs. Thank God, they've got some money. And today we have unregistered political parties, the type "The Turnover Movement", the PSG, I don't know, "We're not drowning Belgrade", "One of five million", etc. He says, "Move." The movement register does not exist, there are associations of citizens, political parties and sports organisations. The movement register doesn't exist. Then no registered parties organize unreported demonstrations, public gatherings and we tolerate it so much, they still call us dictators. That wasn't possible in their time. Let's say, from these gatherings, they report unregistered media. It was not possible in their time and Ranko Panic paid for it with his head. At a reported rally, in a reported protest in the Republic Square, the application of force over many peaceful protesters resulted in the death of a man. They didn't even publish it in the media. Now, that was media freedom. As for the rule of law and the rule of law, they best deny it with their own procedures for which they do not bear responsibility, because you cannot organise unregistered meetings, you cannot have no registered parties. They have passed a regulation that it takes 10,000 members to establish one political party, and now that they need it, Gilas buys from that Bulatovic for five million and 700 thousand, and others work unregistered. This authority tolerates unregistered gatherings, not registered parties, which are transmitted by unregistered media. I don't know when we'll draw a line and say – enough? What Sasa Radulović says – enough is enough. Next, he says -- he won't be able to, as Sojic says. I think it's time we told them -- we'll either agree on some things or we just can't stand it, these constant conflicts. In conflicts, if so, God forbid, in conflicts with ourselves we surely lose. My appeal is still to be called mind. It's better to succeed in a complicated way than to fall apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10262	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic, for your presentation and I would say excellent observations. Now that you've spoken to me, since you've asked me for my opinion, I'm in full agreement with these thoughts that you've shared with us. Since you asked me on the subject of these people, their relationship with the elections, I think everything is absolutely well explained, the best possible explanation in the recognition that we all heard in this country by their ideologist, Veselin Simonovic seems to me to be called, their editor and ideologist who recently said that this whole story about the alleged boycott last year was in fact not because of any problems related to election conditions, they are not controversial, they all know that they are not, but because, as he said, they knew they have no program, that they have no organization and no foothold in the people. I believe it's true so much before it's a confession. Now, what these people think about the next election, you see that they're getting very into them and they have a terrible problem explaining why they talked about the alleged boycott last year, and now they should talk differently. Probably because they are aware that these problems they have raised in the recognition of Simonovic have still not been overcome. But that's just their problem, let no violence apply, and it's all good. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10263	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a proposal for a decision on the termination of the post and appointment of RIK, which fills the composition of the RIK. Also today, we have a proposal for a decision on the selection of members and deputies of members of the competent committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Committees are important permanent working bodies that are important for the work of the National Assembly, and I would like first of all to point out that this National Assembly meeting has reached a really high level of good parliamentary practice to regularly organise public hearings on particularly important laws, that we have double time to discuss also particularly important laws such as the Budget Law, that the percentage of laws adopted by emergency procedure and emergency procedure is below the level of European average. Thus, reports of independent regulatory bodies are regularly considered. We adopted the Code of Conduct of People's MPs and all this proves that this conference is focused on continuing to work full-time to ensure that through the adoption of quality legal solutions to citizens, that is, Serbia can achieve even better results in all areas of social life. It is precisely the backbone of the policy of President Alexander Vukic and the SNS, that at the center of our policy is a man and that citizens are always our first priority. This shows citizens that we are here to provide better conditions for life and work in Serbia, and all the opposite of what we had the opportunity to look at in the previous National Assembly meeting when these Gilas and Jeremic MPs insulted, at the very least, the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when they boycotted the work of the National Assembly, but therefore they did not boycott the work of the restaurant, they did not boycott the register when they were to raise the national money. Then they clearly proved that they had absolutely no plan, no programme, no idea and that they were simply frustrated because of the results that the SNS achieved for Serbia from 2012 to today. When we talk about RIK, the inevitable topic is inter-party dialogue. So I have to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the first phase of inter-party dialogue was started even at the Faculty of Political Sciences, that there were then some 17 recommendations, that out of these 17 recommendations were fully implemented 15, that two were implemented in part. So we have already made it possible for the electoral conditions in Serbia to never be better. Election conditions are fantastic for those who have a plan, programme and policy. We have reduced the electoral censorship from 5% to 3%, so that as many parties and political options as possible can be in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I mean, they didn't boycott the 2020 election at all. They went to the republical elections, which they themselves admitted through the "1 out of 5 million" movement, went to the Stari Grad elections over this Bastac, went to the elections in Sapac over Zelenovic, and went to the Paracino elections. So they were not interested in election conditions at all. They went to the polls where they estimated there was some chance of a good election result. However, citizens have also told them in these places what they really think and what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia really think of their thieving, treasonous policy, which, unfortunately, they have had time and opportunity to implement from 2000 to 2012. Then they were frustrated because of such a reaction by Serbian citizens attacked the National Assembly, wanted to burn down the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, smashed the heads of police officers in front of the National Assembly, all with the aim of stopping the economic and further development of Serbia and, of course, with the aim of bringing them to power by means of violence by some colored revolutions. Now they have been given the opportunity to delegate their members to the RIK, in the media control body, and even, as my esteemed colleague Dejan Kesar said, and even the MEPs are now saying that they are politicians by case in Serbia to take part in Serbia's elections because they are electoral conditions and how good they are. From the very beginning, they knew that electoral conditions were not important to them at all. They simply had a goal, and this was a transitional government, which is how, without the support of Serbian citizens and against the political will of Serbian citizens, they came to power. They had the goal of establishing full control in the media, because they are aware that simply Serbian citizens in the elections will not. They are aware that Serbian citizens do not forget that between 2008 and 2012, when Djilas, Tadic and Jeremic managed the country, more than half a million people in Serbia were out of work during the period. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia can't forget them. When I mentioned the media, the picture in the media was incomparably better than it was by 2012, when there was complete media darkness, specifically for SNS. So the picture in the media is now incomparably better and everyone admits it. Dragan Gilas then, by 2012, was rich in reselling seconds at a public service and it clearly showed and we all have opportunities to see it in reports made by Verica Barac in 2011. Today, the situation is such that this fake second-serb and autoskiller elite controls the media of 50% of the market. Their goal is to control everything, because they're only interested in money, they're only interested in money. We had the opportunity to see the reports of the REM Council during the pre-election period, where it was clearly indicated that the presentation of the electoral lists, the Electoral List of Aleksandar Vukic – for our children and other election lists, those opposition lists, and there were 18 of them, was fully uniform. But it's quite clear that citizens don't want those politicians ever again in power. Citizens do not want those who humiliate the national dignity of the Serb people. That is why our message from here will always be the same, which is that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will decide in the elections and what will be the new assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And that's the same citizens who can't look at the eyes of Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, or Marinika Tepic, because they're chasing some lobbyists of false state independence, bring Viola von Kramon to tell us, under the cover of some kind of environmental struggle, what we need and how we in Serbia need to do. The Serbian people never again want to ask themselves anything in Serbia, Marinika Tepic, who tried to accuse the entire Serbian people and to represent him as a genocide people and to forever let Serbia and the Serbian people down, namely the stigma of accepting collective guilt and collective responsibility for something that Serbs and the Serbian people have never done. Unlike these politicians, SNS comes out with arguments. We have the results thanks to the responsible and serious policy conducted by President Aleksandar Vukic and which he is implementing today, as well as the SNS. Since 2012, we have opened more than 700 thousand new jobs. President Aleksandar Vukic personally opened over 200 factories. We have raised our standard of living, we have provided a better standard of living for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have increased salaries and pensions. The inflow of direct investment in Serbia is higher than the entire region. No alliances of other Serbians from Belgrade led by Dragan Gilas, a terrorist from Pristina and Croatian media will stop Serbia's further development and progress, as neither SNS will allow it nor the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections. Serbia is making unconstitutional progress and we are proud to have provided more freedom and never more democracy than it is today, unlike the time of the former regime's rule. Simply, Serbia no longer wants to allow it to become a tycoon company and private firm, Dragan Gilas. This is a different Serbia, a victorious Serbia, to which other Serbians from Belgrade headed with Jeremic and Gilas and terrorists from Pristina and Croatian media will have to get used to. This is Serbia that is making unsustainable progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10264	Thank you, Mr. Terzic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10265	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever the National Assembly discusses, let's say, supplementing the Decision on termination of office and appointment in the RIK, this is about a single staff change of membership in the RIK. Today, there is always a current topic about election conditions and the first thing I have to point out is that the SNS advocates improving electoral conditions, that we want the former opposition to have even better conditions in some of the upcoming elections than the SNS had when it was the opposition party and when it fought for votes and power in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. At that time, SNS officials could sometimes appear on a show, if the presidential elections were at best between the two rounds of presidential elections. That's what characterizes the former regime compared to us. However, the former regime cannot possibly understand that it is not election conditions, it is neither a member of the bodies to conduct the elections, whether presidential, republican or local, those who bring one to power, bring results to power and bring a political programme to power. Of course, an integral part of the political programme is the economic programme, except for the rule of law, human freedoms, etc., not to mention. Now, I can only ask the citizens of Serbia, can they imagine that during the former regime, a television show like this could happen with one of these contents and criticisms addressed to the ruling regime? For example, a few days ago on a show, a professor of economics and former governor of the NBS Dejan Soskic appeared. He says paying citizens 60 euros, twice 30 euros, is not correct because it is linear and adds that the money needs to be spent better. His vice governor is up to him, and I will tell you later what their role was in the former regime, Milojko Arsic, who had previously criticised the measure. Arsic argues that these measures will not compromise the fiscal position and adds that it would be better if the aid were selective and that those who have fewer are getting more. You know what this is familiar with? I have to ask a question because these are two posted members of the Fiscal Council because, as I recall, these are also the views of the Fiscal Council. Now I have to ask another question. At the position of the report on the work of the Fiscal Council, service per contract, it seems to me that ten and seven million were spent, did Soskić and Arsic get any of that money? Because you know, when you're a correspondence member of the Serbian Academy of Science, you get nothing, but it seems profitable to be a correspondent for the Fiscal Council. But let's see what's possible during the dictatorship of SNS and Alexander Vukic. Also, according to Soskovic, Nikezic and Arsic, inflation has damaged the citizens' living standards, especially those of the poorest. So Šoškovic, speaking of inflation, believes there is room for something to be done that some central banks in the world have done, which went in the direction of signalling that their monetary policy will not allow inflation to grow in the next period. When a professor says, you think – a schooled man, knows what he's doing, probably knows, but this professor, a schooled man, was the governor of the National Bank, and Milojko Arsic is the vice governor. In 2010, he became governor, then inflation was 8.6%, in 2011 11%, in 2012, 7.8%. However, while Milojko Arsic was still a deputy governor in 2008, inflation was 10.9% and 10.1% in 2009. Now I have to ask a normal question – if he's a teacher, he knows what he's saying, why didn't he do it when he was governor, but he had double-digit inflation? It seems to me that Olja Bećkovic can't find good company anymore, but that's her problem, it's not mine. To show the citizens what it looks like, in principle of living standards, say, while the famous professor was the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the governor's position was at 103 dinar euros. When he finished his mandate, the euro rate was 119,80 dinars, in 26 months. The national currency lost nearly 20% of its value, or – the dinar was weaker by 20% than the euro. Don't lay down to have such a serious and good result, then Governor Dejan Soskic sold over two billion euros in foreign exchange reserves to make the euro rate from 103 to 119,80 dinars. Or should I say that it was after years, since then it was Milojko Arsic's vice governor, who was also, together they must have been trying to do something. So he says, in 2008, the exchange rate of the euro was 81.40, with me saying that when the government of Mirko Cvetkovic was voted in the course of the euro, it was 78 dinars. So, in less than half a year, three dinars, i.e. a dinar, lost value compared to the euro in 2009, 94 dinars, 2010 103 dinars, 2011 102 dinars, on 6 August, when the governor's shift, i.e. Šoškovic resigned, was 119,80 dinars. In those four years, the National Bank of Serbia sold nearly five billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, and the national currency lost exactly 50% of its value. Then people like that can say whatever they want and whatever they want on certain TV shows, I don't mind. Let them speak. He's talking about himself, but don't say it's a dictatorship, if I can. There is now some younger Dusan Nikezic, a little later on, just to read one of his statements – that three million citizens live on the edge of poverty. Otherwise, this junior gentleman in 2008 was hired as a consultant for the economy and finance of the Prime Minister, in 2009 he was appointed president of the EPS Supervisory Board, and in 2010 he was appointed president of the Energy Management Board. After the reconstruction of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic in 2011, he became State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and remains in office until the end of July 2012. This is what it looks like. When the younger Nikezic, there is an older one, exercised power in Serbia in 2008, at the time of taking over the government and voting by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic in Serbia, there were 2,821,700 employees, in 2009, 2,616,400, less 205,000. Two hundred five people lost their jobs within a year, while Cvetkovic, Nikezic, Djilas, Solak and Jeremic ruled Serbia. In 2010, we ended up with 2,396,200 employees. There were even more successful both Gilas and Jeremic and Nikezic – 220,000 people lost their jobs. In 2011, not to read the numbers, 143,000 people lost their jobs in 2012 – 25,000 people. A total of 593,000 jobs in Serbia were lost during the rule of Dragan Dilas, Tadic, Jeremic, Solak and Nikezic, 600,000. And he talks about three million Serbian citizens who are on the verge of poverty, probably referring to those three million who have poored while in power. But governments after Cvetkovic, since the arrival of SNS to power, have started a reverse process, which is called employment. So we had a situation that in 2013 the number of employees was increased by 82,400, in 2014 248,000, and that I did not read further, so that in 2020 we would end up with 666,500 employees more than when we assumed power. I'm saying this because it doesn't only take election conditions to beat someone in the election, but you have to have results, which is, I think, what the former regime is not going to accept. Let's move on. The same younger Nikezic was a member of the Assembly of the Company for the Production of Combat Vehicles, never heard of them, a member of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know what he's been up to. I just read that 600,000 people were out of work while he was a member of the Governing Board of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. And where is the money invested in the economy from that fund? And were they purposely spent and were security funds given, and did the Fund manage to collect what was to be charged and return? Or did it end up with Dad's friends? But let's move on. The government hired him to maintain the production process in "Smederevo Irons". Who left Sartid? ‘Ju-Es style’. So don't be surprised that Ju-Es style left Serbia and Sartid. If you have an inflation rate of 10% on an annual basis, if your national currency is 10% lost every year, so in such countries serious companies will not be, but I don't know what Sartid produced until the departure of Ju-esstil while Nikezic was responsible for Sartid, except for pulling money from the budget and competing who would buy a better car and all the burden of the budget, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia, was also a member of the Working Group for the sale of works by Telecom Serbia. Well, you know who was supposed to buy Telecom? Well, Solak. Solak was supposed to buy Telecom, and that's why Solak and Gilas are so angry with Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia why Telecom is becoming more successful. Well, because there's no more free money for the School, no free money for Nikezic, no free money for Gilas. But this is also what I will always point out about this famous family of Nikezic, following his father's arrest in connection with the "Azotar" business, the media in Serbia wrote a lot about the business of their family consulting company CES-Mekon and the close political ties they maintained primarily with the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, including younger Nikezic is a member of the Party of Freedom and Justice and the chairman of the country's resolution board on economic and finance. Now, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it's the pre-election program of the Freedom and Justice Party and Mr. Gilas. So 600,000 less employees, almost five billion euros in foreign exchange reserves sold, GDP decline. There's another interesting detail, I must point that out to you. He says, among other things, that they are attacking even the investment that is being led and GDP growth, which leads to doubts and GDP growth. The problem is that data in Serbia are falsified. We have a situation that our biggest growth vehicle in construction has been in the last few years, and that's where state infrastructure projects are preceding us. We had in the first quarter 19.5% of construction while in the last quarter it was 48% and adds, when we know that these projects are negotiated past the tender, directly due to foreign contractors, their value has been bloated several times, then this means that the calculation of GDP on these data is not realistic, that is, GDP in Serbia is not at that level at which it is represented, the problem of the debt that GDP has been really lower since then... . etc. As an example of bloated prices, Nikezic cited the construction of a fast traffic station from Valjev to Lajkovac, 18km long for which Serbia owed China and whose price is eight million and 800,000 euros per km. According to Nikezic, it is twice as expensive as the Zagreb highway – Split transfers, etc. Now, you see, when a man says it, I expect it to be completely fair, but you can't expect Nietzsic, because it's a family of thieves, to be fair. Because it's not just the construction of the road, it's also the construction of the Kolubara River trough, and that a good part of the funds went to organize the Kolubara River trough, to remind the citizens, it's the same river that submerged Obrenovac. Now I have one question to ask. What Nikezic was doing while he was taking important places, about what Gilas was doing, we'll do it later, what did Nikezic do while he took a significant place in the government of the Republic of Serbia? Because you know of at least one single project he's done? Because you know at least one single meter? Because you know at least for one single bridge? Gilas built a bridge, and we'll talk about him later. Well, you know, at least for one home of health, for one hospital. I don't know. How come one such a failure to criticize anyone, even this authority, anyone? If you look behind him, his family, "Azotara", "Sartid", there's desolation everywhere, there's nothing. Well, the "Knjiz Milos" brought in, beat up that Stim, which was the chairman of the Securities Commission to privatise it. It's the nicks. Arrested a man, president of the State Securities Commission, and they're gonna talk to somebody. And they talk about democracy, they arrested a man because he wanted a man to do his job properly under the law. Let's get back to those infrastructure projects. Just to point out, since GDP growth is at stake here. It is not only the Republic Statistics Institute that assesses our GDP growth, assesses it also "Eurostat" and assesses it by the IMF. It is impossible to forge anything, but whoever doesn't know it and who listens to Nikezic can take it for granted. Here, to return to one part of his discussion, says that one kilometer costs 8 million and 800,000 euros per km. If we take that one kilometer has 1,000 meters, it is 8000 and 800,000 euros per meter of highway, with all the arrangements of the Kolubara River. So, Alexander Vukic, his most expensive highway that he's made costs eight thousand and 800 euros per meter, the most expensive. Dragan Gilas built a bridge on Ada, cost 600m euros, is 996m long. So, one meter of bridge, times, call whatever you want, Dragan Gilasa costs 600,000 euros. That means, to translate again into numbers, that Aleksandar Vukic makes 80 times, but exactly 80 times cheaper roads and bridges than Dragan Gilas did. That's what Serbian citizens need to know. They need to know that in the number of employees the difference is over a million and 200, because during their rule 600,000 people lost their jobs, during our government 660,000 came to work. The difference is one million and two hundred, but not in the euro, but in the number of employees. The difference is that we make cheaper roads 80 times than Dragan Gilas, who made only one bridge, and we would make two highways with that money. But they can't be the cheap roads that Dragan Gilas makes, because he has to be richer in how many times? Take a calculation, divide 600m euros by 70,000 euros, it seems to me exactly again about 800 times. So he's making roads that are 80 times more expensive, and during the government, he's 80 times richer. Well, don't be surprised then. Well, no electoral conditions will help them, and nothing will help them, nor that Shoskite, or that Arsic. Well, you know what they're famous for? In addition to selling foreign exchange reserves, except for being a huge inflation, which proved to be unprofessional, so they are known to have falsified the Agrobanks business reports and even wanted in a rather suspicious and illegal way, Šoškić as governor, Milojko Arsic, a vice governor who was in charge of controlling bank operations to compensate for losses by broadcasting government securities of value to improve the liquidity of Agrobanks. Now, to make things worse, not only have they not improved it, but their team in Agrobanks has stolen that money. It's just one part of the story. We have that unfortunate Pajkic, who did the same thing with Soskovic and Miljko Arsic when it comes to "Vojvodine Development Bank", just didn't steal a billion euros, but rather over 400m euros. I'm saying it's not good company. Let few those journalists who deal with investigative journalism inform who they are sitting with, whom they invite to the shows. We don't mind being white-world thieves, but don't pose as saints because a thief is a thief. So no matter what the election conditions, the SNS wants them to be far better than they were when the SNS itself was in power. The reason for that is - we have results. Our victories will be even more convincing than in earlier years, but we want these victories to be not only legal, but completely legitimate for what we plan to continue to recover, re-industrize and increase Serbia's reputation both in the world and among our citizens, to finally reach that standard of life as expected by one authority, and as far as I can see by the mood and results, only in some subsequent elections can Alexander Vukic and SNS offer.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10266	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10267	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, at first I would refer to the points on today's agenda. It is the right of every proposing, every political party that delegates people to the relevant committees, that when they assess that it is necessary or when they come into a situation that they have to do so, replace certain people, so I have no objections there and I believe that this is an internal matter, or an internal issue of the promoter, in this case the SPS. I would look back, like other colleagues, on the current situation. I want to first, using some data that were in circulation the previous days when just talking about budget rebalancing, to point out how much economic growth has actually been achieved in Serbia and the country's progress during the period of power. A few days ago, we had the opportunity to adopt a second budget rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, which is based on what happened in the previous nine months on data from three previous quarters and this rebalancing is a minor mathematically precise project of what will be by the end of the year. The fact is that the total budget revenues in 2021, according to this last budget, will be 132 billion more than estimated in April, with 111 billion being tax revenues, and 21 billion being non-tax revenues. And by increasing revenues, we are in fact reducing the deficit of the Republic of Serbia's budget in 2021 to about 305 billion, which is at the country's level at around 4.9%. What is particularly interesting is, if the structure of these revenues is looked at, not only is the increase in the consumption of citizens due to the growth of the number of employees, the increase in earnings, the increase in pensions and permanent social benefits and the additions to pensions and other incomes that the state gives to citizens, so the VAT contribution is higher by 54 billion than planned. Immediately beyond that comes the contribution from profit, from the tax on the profit of legal persons. You know, VAT participates in the total budget with 44%, so these 54 billion can somehow balance with that percentage, but corporate income tax somewhere below 10% participate in the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia. So 44 billion are actually an indicator of the very good business of legal entities in 2020, i.e. The fantastic results given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which have been applied, I would better say applied throughout 2020. It means that eight billion euros, as much as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has invested in helping companies, businesses, entrepreneurs, individual branches such as catering, tourism, etc., and the assistance it has provided to citizens, all of this has had its effect and full meaning. Finally, it is at least an increase in the income tax of citizens, because it has the smallest percentage in the structure of GDP, 4.5 billion, but it is interesting that out of those four, three billion relate to the annual income tax of citizens and to the dividends collected by citizens, which means that again we have a positive business of those legal entities in which citizens have their share, i.e. from which they collect dividend income. What's even more remarkable is that both the PIO Fund and the Health Insurance Fund have made much more of their own income than planned. The PIO Fund has made 27 billion dinars of its own income, and the RFZO 10 billion and 600 million. Of course, you wonder where it came from? The logical answer is because of the increase in earnings, the increase in the number of employees, the inflows in these two funds are higher. So we came into a situation that the state could save 33 billion in the budget that was intended for the PIO Fund and only 432 million to give less to the RFZ, which, of course, has increased needs because of the cove of the pandemic and this situation with the covid. But somewhere when they look together at the PIO Fund, the RFO and the National Employment Service, the state saved about 35 billion this year. I have to make a comparison with 2011. I looked at that data, when the government's participation in the financing of the PIO fund was 50%. So, then, in 2011, which is the period of the yellow government, which turned Serbia black, only half of the pension funds were raised from income, those who are working at that time earning money. The other half had to come from the budget, and since Serbia's budget was empty then, it came from the loan. The new October projection of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the new October rebalancing, the percentage of the participation of the Republic of Serbia's pension financing budget has been reduced to 14.8%, meaning below 15%. This speaks of an amazing result that, for all these years, since 2014, when Aleksandar Vukic became prime minister since 2017, when he became president of Serbia, along with the government, has made it possible for the Republic of Serbia to improve the economy. Given that expenditures have increased only by 24 billion compared to April, 35 billion savings and increased expenditures, they are summed up to around 60 billion that the state has now redistributed in October for some other purposes, mostly or in any case for what was most needed to be done. So 27 billion of those 60 billion are defined for investments, non-financial assets, which is very important. This highway is mentioned in Novi Belgrade-Surcin, the fast highway Požerac-Golubac, etc. When you look at the level of investment, or what the state separates from non-financial assets, that's 22% of the budget, it's somewhere near 400 billion. That's impressive numbers, 400 billion on an annual basis. And just by simply looking at the budget rebalancing for 2021, without any further tuning and screening from previous years, we see how much progress Serbia has made for all these years and that this progress is much greater than what we expected last year, at the end of the previous year, and in April of the month when we worked and made the first budget rebalancing. In addition, as the president said, cumulatively in the previous two years, Serbia is among the countries in the world that have made the greatest progress because the GDP decline in the previous year was only 0.9% and of course those who have had a GDP drop of 8%, 9%, 11% cannot measure with us even if they have made progress of 15% or 16% this year, because these numbers are algebraically added, or taken away. I would refer to a statement that I recently read in the press, but since this is the first address after reading that call for interviews or performances, I just kind of feel like I have an obligation to answer on that issue. It is quite unusual or better to say completely unfairly that in another country, especially in Croatia, someone who is from Serbia, and here I mean the employee of Dragan Dilas, Marinik Tepic, so uglyly talks about his country and his people. You know, she criticized even the EU there saying that the EU is in a hypocrisis i.e. that he has a hypocritical relationship when it comes to Serbia. In fact, she wanted to say that the EU has very strict standards and very hard principles and principles, but that when it comes to Serbia, the EU does not adhere to these hard standards and strict principles. Furthermore, it says that the EU, moreover, is flirting with Aleksandra Vukic, i.e. to court Alexander Wolfich. I am now asking questions - what should the EU do to not court Alexander Vukic? Does this mean that, since most of the investment in Serbia comes from the EU, or Germany, they need to stop investing, stop building factories, stop opening new jobs, or maybe introduce sanctions, introduce some kind of blockade or make us worse? I have the impression that someone wanted the EU to give advice on something restrictive, that some sanctions should be applied to the state of Serbia and according to the regime, she said, Alexander Vukic. Of course, they often mention electoral conditions in the media and colleagues have talked about it today, so they have asked that European parliamentarians, and those who answer to them according to their souls, participate in the dialogue between the authorities and the opposition. These people came and said that this deal was good. Now, all of a sudden these people are no longer good to them, who until yesterday, they say, "No, no, they've sold themselves, the agreement is not good, etc." The point is that this rhetoric that Gilas, Marinika and others apply is only one alibi for an election result that they know is expecting. They see the results of this government - building roads, now the railways, the large number of factories are open, the people are employed, real profits are growing, all economic and fiscal indicators are primary and the people see it. In their time, Serbia collapsed, Serbia was crippled, and they lost power because of it, although at the time of the 2012 elections, total media darkness ruled, and representatives and SNS leaders were fully media satanized. You even had those negative videos against SNS leaders, which has never appeared before in Serbia, the political campaign, or any other neighbouring country or beyond. All of this didn't help them, but in 2012, they lost power. So, the media campaign is not crucial, neither are the conditions crucial, crucial results. We have something to go out with in front of the people they didn't have. Someone mentioned their political programme today, so their only program, that all Serbian citizens know, is to come and keep stealing and robbing. They don't have any other program, they only have those personal goals to handle. Serbian citizens know that and they know that Serbian citizens will never trust them again. So this story that they're unhappy with the agreement, that he's not fair, that he's not providing conditions is an alibi for the result they know will be. There are no election conditions that can help them. There isn't. Anything to give them, except to push voters to vote for them, nothing can help them anymore. I want to highlight here a couple of incredibly good government moves, first of all the president, in recent months. I think it's a 60 mark. Conferences of non-classified people right here in Belgrade have been an incredibly good and wise political, foreign policy move where Serbia is in fact among non-classified countries, which are 120, and which have greatly appreciated and respected the SFRY as a movement leader, where Serbia has now taken over the political heritage, i.e. it has legitimately legitimately been the legal successor of the SFRY in this regard. You know, even at a time when the Movement of Unclassifieds came into existence, he didn't have as good and as justified and as sincere and noble a role as he is today. It is then more sponsored by the Western forces that these countries freed from colonialism do not go to the Soviet Union, or go to that other bloc and then form a movement of non-classified countries to keep them away. Okay, but the fact that our country, regardless of the internal policy that the Serbian people could not possibly be satisfied with, gained a great international reputation and a great reputation in the Movement of Unclassified and Serbia was very wise, as the only neutral country, after the break-up of the SFRY used the fact that it was imposed as the legal successor of the Movement of Unclassified and that in Belgrade all those who were members and those in 1961, which was 25 countries, participated in the founding conference. Now with one wise diplomatic action below, we will prevent countries belonging to the movement from recognising Kosovo's independence if someone is pressuring them, and many who have confessed, there are those who are moving, and they have confessed, they can try to withdraw their recognition. So the Kosovo issue and the issue of holding a jubilee conference in Belgrade are closely linked, and this falls within one of the wisest foreign policy moves Serbia has been able to make and have made lately. I also want to say that the Open Balkans initiative, which aims to connect people, goods, capital, is useful for all the countries involved, for all the peoples, but as I see it, it has another function that is very useful and very good. By integration in the Balkans, we are turning out separatists in Kosovo for reasons for recognising independence. You know, the Open Balkans kind of dissuade the issue of Kosovo's independence. Guys, we're integrating, we're out of bounds, and now you want to build a wall and fence yourself. It doesn't go with each other. The Open Balkans initiative is a streptomycin for Kosovo's independence imposed by Pristina. Finally, when it comes to incidents that took place in the north of KiM, I must say the reaction of the Republic of Serbia, primarily the president of Serbia, was incredibly wise, that he was within which he could make certain moves, and that framework has numerous and international limitations, made the best possible moves. I also say that as someone who was born in Kosovo and Metohija, who lived there for a very long time, who lived there and at a time when our forces were not there, when KFOR forces and international police came and when the UCK returned to the urban settlements in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, I go there occasionally now and I think that as someone who knows the Kosovo situation very well, that is, the Kosovo-Methochial reality that our president is making the wisest moves and that he should not worry about it while Aleksandar Vukic thinks about it. Pristina's goal is to bring Serbia into conflict with the NATO Pact, i.e. Serbia is quick to react and to attack Kosovo's borders that are actually protected by KFOR, i.e. NATO Pact. If this had happened hypothetically no one would have talked about incidents and unilateral moves caused by the Pristina side, they would have all talked about Serbia entering Kosovo's territory militaryly, that is, if it had clashed with the NATO Pact and they would have been amnesty from all the screwups they've made. The solution reached about the tables and the incident in Jarinj is the most reasonable solution and that is victory, it is Serbia's victory, because Serbia is looking for nothing but for all solutions to be reasonable and to be fair and that in these solutions no one is a winner or a loser. However, with the Kosovo Albanian absecction, and I know this psychology well, it is a great defeat. They're used to everything being their own for 60 years. From the Constitution in 1974 to the assistance of NATO's aggression to Yugoslavia, that is, Serbia, in 2004, when Serbian villages and houses were burned and no one answered, in 2008, when they declared independence and the forces of the West accepted it, in 2011 when the crossings were established. So, like one spoiled brat, they're used to getting everything, that every one-sided move goes by, besides, the Brussels Agreement of 2013. Serbia applied it and what they needed to apply and what was the most important item, they, here, do not apply for eight full years. So the compromise they had to make at the time and they made it because Serbia has become powerful enough in one part of the international community for them to actually be defeated, although it is one quite reasonable solution that makes it easier for both Serbian and Albanian citizens to function on both sides of the administrative crossing. Since it was seen as defeat and local elections were going to have to be followed by another more aggressive incident where firearms will be fired, etc. in order for Albin Kurti to fix his rating ahead of the election they followed, and it is good that the Serbs listened to the president's advice and went to those elections because they restored their legitimacy as a negotiator and to the international community as well as to Albanians. Of course, the opponent should never have left empty space, if the Serbs had not gone to the Pristina elections, or the government in Pristina would have set up temporary authorities in Serbian communities. These temporary authorities would be Albanians or people who favor them and the problem would be opened. This is how the legitimacy of Serbian representatives has been confirmed and space has been closed for any manipulation and speculation by the opponents. We know of plans to build the Kosovo Protection Corps into the Kosovo Army by January 1st 2024 and until January 1st 2026. Kosovo will be admitted to NATO, these are the plans of some of the most aggressive mentors and lobbyists of Kosovo's independence and, of course, they are bothered by Aleksandar Vucic who opposes any solution that is not fair, which is not compromiseable because, as he says, one side cannot get everything and the other can lose everything. Neither can Albanians lose everything, but neither can Serbs lose everything and that solution must preserve the dignity of the Republic of Serbia, preserve its interest, but also that Serbs in KIM, create conditions for them to live peacefully there and live without thinking about moving, or moving to other parts. That's why the story of Marinika Tepic, the one from the beginning, is that Europe and the West are courting Vukic is not true at all. They're building factories here because we reformed our legislation and our really created the best possible conditions for foreign investment, because everyone goes after their own interests. They don't build those factories because we have beautiful eyes, but they build factories because this country created conditions for them to invest and build factories here. As far as their intentions are concerned, they are well-known and recognized in Wikilix notes, so let's say here are a few of the characteristic ones – Vuk Jeremic said at NATO headquarters on September 5th 2007 on the issue – what level of co-operation Serbia wants with NATO, he said – full membership, reminding that President Tadic also told NATO's Secretary-General the pact. Zdravko Ponos is the vice-president of Jeremic's party and it is interesting that on 2 June 2006, he was mentioned as a man unequivocally defined about the entry of Serbian armed forces into the Partnership for Peace (Peace). Finally joining NATO. Even Michael Pont, the US ambassador, lobbyed with Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica to become Chief of Staff. When you have in mind where he's all educated, in London, in Germany, etc. It's getting clearer, and I think two pastures, he and Agim Cheku, they'd fit everyone in their position. Agim Ceku was and the defence minister of Kosovo is still highly respected there. He was the Chief of Staff. Given the attitudes that Poš and all that click around Jeremic have, they would very easily fit in and agree. As for the issues that Vuk Jeremic has sent to the International Court of Justice, in a dispatch that Wikiliks has discovered, it is only a smart, diplomatic, political move that will allow the Serbian government to exit the Kosovo problem and focus on Euro-Atlantic integration and that the government of which is a member of Jeremic is impatient to decovise Serbian politics. So much for them and their defence of Kosovo, and for some forces from the west to stand there and love to see Alexander Vukic as Serbian president. On the contrary, Alexander Vukic is a bone in the throat to all those who want to kidnap KIM, but also to those who have allowed the kidnappers to do their job in one good way and to bring us into such an awkward position. I thank you for your time and for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10268	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10269	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr Orlic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since colleagues and colleagues have said very much today in this high house on the dialogue of government and opposition, or parties that are now ruling in Serbia and opposition parties, and in particular the representative of the parliamentary group, Mr Mirkovic, let me say just a few sentences. I welcome the agreement between the opposition parties and the ruling coalition's authorities on improving electoral conditions. What I want to particularly underline and what is very important is that the electoral conditions were never better for the opposition than they are today. What I've been stressing for three years, and in the last session, is that part of the opposition parties that negotiate with Europarliatarians under the control of Dragan Gilas did not want and today not want to go to elections, but to win elections without elections, with the help of foreign factors, to bring them into power on the street, without programmes, because they already did so on 5 October 2000, according to a CIA representative for Serbia. I'll say two specific examples. One of them is Zdravko Ponoš. The day before yesterday, he expressed his desire that the new ambassador of the United States would take Alexander Vukic down, and he would then, apart from his people, come to power, so Jeremic and Djilas. However, let me say a few sentences, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to see who Zdravko Ponos is. As chief of staff, he was executed for Serbia's army, even his Boris Tadic gave it up, and then he was drawn for money by Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds. Today, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, every member of Serbia's army red from shame when Serbia's military assessment of the day before yesterday gives Zdravko Ponos. As a general or chief of staff, pride stood still before NATO lieutenants while the brave Serb army extradited to The Hague. Zdravko Ponos promised as chief to the US senator that Serbia's army would reduce from 62,000 to 27,000. Anyone who thought as a patriot about Serbia's army was expelled from Serbia's army. That's the Zdravko Ponos. Is it true, Mr. Posh? Of course it's true. Is it true, Mr. Posh, that you retired 28 generals and retired the best Serbian army officers? Of course it's true. You destroyed, Mr. Ponos, the weapons of the Serbian army and brought the army down to the fire unit. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Zdravko Ponos went to NATO to lobby past the will of citizens to join the alliance. Is it true, Mr. Ponosh, that you explain to the citizens of Serbia? In his time, Montenegro seceded from Serbia. In his time, Kosovo declared so-called. an independent state. Today, the day before yesterday, he criticises, believe it or not, the equipment of Serbia's army. You know, respected citizens, what is this Zdravko Ponos when he was Chief of Staff? He destroyed, believe it or not, 200 tanks, 120 armored transporters, 90 hoodies, 36 "Prague". Of the weapons, Zdravko Ponos and his minister Dragan Sutanovac, in a people called "grab the money" bought eight MiG-29 rockets that flew only on Saturdays. He kept visiting Western embassies, and he's doing it now. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is a public secret that Zdravko Ponos is an ordinary spy. He destroyed the PVO system. Believe it or not, respected citizens, but it's true - the 9,218 missile "Strela" it destroyed even 420 launchers for those missiles. Today on the market, it costs over 30m euros. You know by whose orders Zdravko Poš did it? On the orders of NATO, because the arrows proved to be extraordinary during the 1999 criminal NATO aggression on our homeland. Look at the wonders, Janko Veselinović, in the people known as "Janko Stanocrat", that's the one, respected citizens, who stole the apartment of Milici Badzhi in Obrovec, ul. Brothers of Kurjakovic No. 9 and, behold, he returned it after five years, because of the merit of the messengers of the people, for there was shame and shame. What did he say about Zdravko Posh? He said he was a great patriot, the day before yesterday. Now, imagine if he came to the head of the Republic of Serbia and was the commander-in-chief of Serbia's armies?- I'm sorry. So, this is Zdravko Ponos, and otherwise Vuk Jeremic's vice president. Others, who also do not want to come to power with elections, believe it or not, but the citizens already know that, Dragan Gilas, in a people known as the "jiki Mafia". Dragan Gilas said recently, there is one four days, that democracy, I quote, "in Serbia she was killed, killed by the power of Alexander Vukic by breaking the law". Can you, dear citizens, believe that's said by Dragan Gilas? Mr. Gilas, you killed democracy in Serbia. Here's an argument, your regime has brought the country to the brink of bankruptcy, and the argument is next - on February 2, 2018, you, Mr Gilas, agreed with this of your Alliance for Serbia to leave as MPs to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that you, through the tycoon media, will bring the street to power yourself and the opposition. You said then, and you deny it, I quote: "If we throw out the dialogue from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then as a society we have a problem. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the place to talk. If we stop it, stop all the media, they'll explode. Who needs the Assembly, please," finished the quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you see who doesn't want a dialogue, who doesn't want parliamentary elections, who wants to come back to power on the street, because Dragan Gilas was a five-octobarian first-rounder on October 5th when they took power without a election. Believe it or not, the day before yesterday Dragan Djilas also attacked Goran Vesic, deputy mayor. Look at the wonders of why. Because Goran Vesic said Gilas says he boasts about the kindergartens that privates built. Mr. Gilas, you've been stealing money from the parents of children as mayor, who brings back today's government. Is it true, Mr. Gilas? Of course it's true. It is true that in the last three years, the city of Belgrade has returned 3.5 billion dinars to parents who have paid twice as expensive kindergartens between 2008 and 2012. Tell me, Mr. Gilas, is this information correct? At that time, while you were mayor, your day-to-day stay in kindergarten cost 9,500 and 8,500, and today it costs 5,600. 15 kindergartens could be built for 3.5 billion dinars. So why won't Dragan Gilas go to the election? Not only does he not have a program. The former US ambassador to Serbia himself in 2008, I will quote him: "Gilas told me that there is no programme for Belgrade, he only performs marketingly, he is not interested in the programme," the quote concluded. That's what Cameron Hunter said. Is it true, Mr. Gilas? He's interested, respected citizens only in money, 619 million he stole from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That I don't talk too much about Gilas anymore, because it's not on me yet, it's been five months, he answered, and I'm just going to quote about him at the end just to quote his colleague Sergei Trifunovic, who I usually disagree with, and he said to Gilas, "Gilasu is the main weapon that solves everything and buys everything, and political affection. The Alliance for Serbia never existed. What is Janko Veselinović, a former landlord? Nothing. What is Zeljko Veselinović, from the Union? Nothing. They're being held by Gilas who has a flirt party, who comes in, makes money, they take two, three, well, well... Jeremic is untalented, and Gilas has destroyed culture in Belgrade." It's a finished quote. If Mr. Trifunovic was right about anything, he was right about Dragan Gilas. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic daily muds our country, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia, until Alexander Vukic daily leads a policy of peace, not only in the region, but in Europe and beyond, a policy of security, a policy of health for all of our citizens, and not just citizens, but also in the region and beyond, a policy of economic progress, a policy of modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. That's what he does and we do everything for the future of our children. Dear Dr. Orlic, in voting day, as well as my colleagues from the SNS, I will vote for this agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10270	Thank you, Professor. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10271	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, my distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the MPs were indeed exhausting in their previous speeches to discuss electoral conditions and how they once lived in Serbia and how they live today. I would just like to look back and add to the distinguished professor that when it comes to Zdravko Ponoš, the same story as in the multiplier, or multiplier. No person, we know this well, with Dragan Gilas who is not his employee and who is not with him on the payroll, can expect support from him for some significant functions, because as we know their only goal if they came to power is to continue the robbery they had committed by 2012, and fortunately, by the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections, by their electoral conditions that they had then created, they prevented them from doing so. Otherwise, also for Ponos, as you said, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, who is an example of the destruction of an army of a state and the reduction of its defence capacities and capacity to provide security for citizens, is also, behold, a miracle, one of the employees, but with his boss Jeremic. When he was fired from Boris Tadic, that is, when their argument occurred, he became, as we know, his assistant. While he was foreign minister, during his term he managed so much to bring Serbia down and ask the stupid question to the International Court of Justice and to present to Albanians in Pristina a chair in the UN. I also said that a monument in downtown Pristina is expected soon, as every year Albanians thank him for his intricacies. Nothing is better or a physicist than a diplomat, we've had the opportunity to see for ourselves a lot of times. He was his assistant. Then, when, with the support of Serbian citizens, Jeremic served as UN assembly president, he was the head of his cabinet. Then, when he could no longer survive, he used the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to establish Jeremic's NGO, "CIRSD", which, as we know perfectly, serves only to launder money. His associates, Patrick Hall, and other white-world criminals, some already have procedures, some have completed procedures. The director of this organization is nobody but Zdravko Ponoš, who is also the vice president of his party. What makes me very upset is that Dragan Gilasu, too, Zdravko Ponos, answers as a candidate for the president of the Republic, which will certainly strike significantly against Vuk Jeremic's vanity. Unlike the head of Gilas, who is trying to push his listeners to the front of the plan, and that he is actually putting people's money in his pockets and spreading his multi-com empire by wanting to carry out Serbia's acquisition and attaching it to his empire, we have another situation in Jeremic where unless he points out in the first plan, you have a problem. That is why we should not be surprised by the inscriptions in the opposition media that we have seen, which is that the lines of the People's Party leave a large number of those officials that they have pointed out to deal with sports and other problems. In their ranks, we had opportunities, my colleagues talked about it, to see the people who sat in this National Assembly, who showed how much of the mandates that the citizens had entrusted in the elections were important, including the otter of princes from Triestenik, who regularly came to the National Assembly, took travel expenses, received salaries, held naturally conferences that, behold, this trip would not have been in vain, but certainly it was not here to represent the interests and the few citizens who supported it at that time. We also had opportunities to see in recent elections for the councils of local communities in Triestenik municipality that there was no support, because it was clear that he could not even run in his own local community for a member of the Council, because surely even from his house people would not vote for him since they knew what he was like while he was running the Tristenik municipality. Just because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will remind myself that there is judicially certified evidence that he robbed the budget of the municipality of Trstenik, that he self-initiatedly increased his coefficient and thus damaged the citizens of Trstenik by one, two or three streets that could have been paved or the offices, where he set up his palos for gasification without any permission, without any consultation with the republican institutions, in order to celebrate and present himself, founded in his own village a public enterprise that led to bankruptcy and which had to be shut down, where he set aside huge funds for non-existent vehicles in the Council of the Local Community to buy fuel. I'm just wondering, who did they end up with? Then the Republic of Serbia is no good for agriculture or agriculture, and he himself applied at the time of the SNS when he was in power, then he got subsidies, bought a tractor, but I'm surprised that something that the tractor didn't drive through Belgrade, but another tractor used for some self-promotion and for a fictitious campaign he's trying to run, and only to spread lies in the interest of his boss. What is interesting, a similar mantra has been applied to both the SP party Dragan Djilas, who bought a party from farmers and apparently the only farmer in Serbia that Dragan Djilas cares about, is Bulatovic, and here we have the situation that Vuk Jeremic bought from Prince Tristenik's orbit, because he could not collect ten thousand signatures and refused to pay over these signatures to prove that he had any support for the citizens. We saw later in previous presidential elections who had the support. I'm saying, it's their actions that talk about expertise. One was an expert in destroying companies, another was an expert in that the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is being distributed to projects that are strictly paid, including the Adi bridge, which is being spoken of today, and I will only make a clear note that with the financial resources invested in the construction of that bridge on Ada, half of the Moravian Corridor that is being built today, which will be the most modern highway in this part of Europe, the first digital highway in Serbia, half of that highway could be built. Otherwise, the same Dragan Djilas, when the story and the highway construction project, which was discussed in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 by then by the party friend of the Prince Aleksic, is in favour of building four lanes, which is just saying that he is not in the interest of solving citizens' problems that they get a chance to develop their local self-government, but he was looking at ways to install himself in these projects, and that he still leaves something behind. It is also enough when we look at the statistics on the economy of the Republic of Serbia, because during the yellow tycoon we only knew about the negative results of our economic downturn. I'll remind you, 2008/2009. For years, it was the period of that terrible economic crisis, which the ministers of the Thai regime then claimed was the developmental chance of the Republic of Serbia, which was only a developmental chance for them to fill their own pockets, because they carried out that action of cleaning Serbia during that period, and in fact they were just cleaning up the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. taking money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. During this period, no financial aid or incentives for business or for citizens are allocated, and in today's time, when Serbia has enough funds, when there is enough money needed for investment projects under favourable conditions, and not at interest rates of seven, eight, nine and more percent, as in their time, when money is allocated to help citizens, to help in this way and businesses, they are, of course, critical of such measures, saying that they are helicopters that will not give any effect. Then when we get information that Serbia's growth rate is likely to be 7.5%, and that's the real rate of war, even more so, when the IMF and other international organisations confirm this information with their pessimistic forecasts that it will be 6.5%, then they're silent, because they never even told the truth, and even when they say some of their views that they didn't know they were arguing, and even less they knew they were defending them. That's what they're showing today. Then they wonder why they do not have the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We also talked about election conditions. I would not repeat myself, there are my colleagues excellently stated and what was signed by this agreement in the Assembly and it is clearly made she divided into two columns, i.e., let me say, that opposition that might want to offer to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which wants to be measured, wants to make some of its own policy, whatever it is, represented, but then you have this column of Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Veseinovic, who has been able to change something in this country ever since, and has not done anything since then, and other of their associates who have asked some foreign intermediaries to come here, because we are not able to sit down, and this agreement is evidence that we are and how we are prepared to agree. If you read in the text of the agreement, it is said that the dialogue will continue to improve the electoral conditions in the Republic of Serbia, that even working to improve the overall electoral system, so that citizens' will be better reflected both in local parliaments and in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in other institutions where citizens choose their representatives. Then you see that it suits them, and these others are not responding. They do not yet agree with you, apparently, the foreigners who came here to represent some of their interests, and in fact they did not come to represent the interests, but they expected them to come here now and say – so that, Mr. Gilas, you should manage Serbia, here, we will hand you the staff and we will only declare you the ruler of Serbia because you should rule. They have also been deceived because it is the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who decide who will be their representative, what policy Serbia will lead on both externally and internally and when it comes to the economy, when it comes to culture, sport, education, health care. Exactly what is a very important segment, these are the results that will tell citizens whether this policy they have chosen is good or not. The current results that say that the growth rate will be 7.5%, that our budget deficit is reduced to the level that is satisfactory, that we have enough money in the account, that the state is liquid and that it can satisfy all its obligations, that we also have at the time of the pandemic employment growth, that we have constant investments that come into the Republic of Serbia, that only the champions in attracting foreign direct investment, that it continues with infrastructure projects, that we build eight highways, 15 traffic lots total, which has never been built in the history of modern Serbia, that we are working to raise our energy sector to provide energy supplies, are precisely the results that citizens of the Republic of Serbia appreciate. What is most appreciated is the openness and transparency of the work and of President Alexander Vukic and the SNS, or the government that is there. We also had a chance today to hear Prime Minister Ana Brnabic deliver the results of the government's work after a year. Right away, of course, by the opposition media, you had a chance to see how they were attacking, how they were trying to fake things. When the truth falls into their faces and the evidence is presented to them, then they get angry and, of course, the media campaign starts. Like what? Well, just a campaign with insults, tweets, telling all kinds of lies and ugly names to the prime minister, according to anyone who says they didn't tell the truth, or that what they did today is really embarrassing. Speaking of election conditions, they say electoral conditions are never worse in Serbia. Well, I'll ask them, what election conditions in 2012 did you lose power? Under which electoral conditions in 2008, you deceived the citizens of the Republic of Serbia when your minister promised those thousand euros to each citizen for action, so we remember that each of us remained in debt for 900 euros and openly admitted that such a lie had only been made to ensure the victory of Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party, because so was their personal interest, or the interest of the tycoon oligarchy headed by the state. Today, when you have openness and availability to the media for information, when they have their own media, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, who are actually registered as re-emitters, but what's interesting is how everything is seen in Luxembourg in information and shows that are placed in Serbian and that are seen by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is not clear today, and that these media have so closed and controlled that they simply do not allow any information that is contrary to their opinion to their own. It's a little bit more, so in these conversations they asked to continue selling seconds at the public service, to be some editors who would determine how the RTS and RTS service would function. They're the ones who want to control private TV at the bar, so they often come to us -- when are we going to go out on a TV duel? But the first question they need to ask themselves is do they have anything to say on that TV duel? As they respect the rules, their behaviours and performances are spoken in both the streets of Belgrade and other cities. In Kruševec we even experienced their respect for the laws and regulations, by obtaining permission to set up their stands at a certain location, but then they found themselves very clever and moved to another location that they themselves estimated fit them, because, unfortunately, next to them they needed to be a SNS stand. They were probably afraid of what the number of SNS activists was, and how powerless they would be then. Then, behold, they are trying in this way to spin and deceive the public, and in fact they are the ones who clearly show disrespect and the laws and regulations in this country, above all the disrespect of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, in the previous elections, they showed by their boycott how many cowards, their present performances and performances, and also this coalition they created in which they cannot agree between themselves who will have how many representatives, because some claim in their statistical research that they are already the winners of the election. Well done, it's no problem, but get to the polls first, so let's see if those are the results. On the other hand, you have those who may have dared to come out, but yet it is not enough guarantee or negotiating power to be able to fight within their coalition for certain places. What's the worst thing they're trying to do is sell some of the polls they've been doing to Serbian citizens, where some opposition united by them is already, as I said, the winner of the Belgrade elections, and here at the level of the Republic of Serbia is about the shoulder with SNS and with Alexander Vukic. Actually, the characteristic of the Gilasian doctrine, which is the addition of grandmothers and frogs. When, on the other hand, they come out reputed houses with certain research, which have credibility and weight, they declare such research untrue, for some sort of finging, for the marketing of SNS, etc. And I'll just end up saying, when it comes to their staff, that's where my colleagues talked about both Aleksic and Marinika Tepic and this farmer Bulatovic, who is the only farmer in Serbia that Dragan Dilas cares about, because if he had cared about farmers first, he would not have allowed "PKB" to happen what he did when it was under his leadership, but he would have saved the company, and he would have also allocated much more resources for the needs of farmers than they had singled out at all. But what's generally a feature when it comes to their officials, when it comes to their country's carriers, is that the more incompetent you are, the more qualified you are for a higher position. That's the story you had in Krushevec. Before 2012 Director ‘14. October, which is a good part and deserves why it is "14. October," this industrial giant who dealt with construction machinery had a dedicated industry, unfortunately, brought to the brink of destruction, so thanks to the SNS found a strategic partner who now restores production and re-employs the Kruševljanes in this once great giant and as a token of gratitude for his incompetence, he was given the place of Mayor Kruševec, who spent only two years doing so during this period of economic crisis, and during the period when Kruševec was so retaliated, when a large number of factories were closed, when they did not even bother with those companies that they privatised to establish good co-operation and to keep them in Kruševec, but they acted as though it was quite regardless whether they would stay in Kruševec or leave. But fortunately, they didn't leave. After 2012, Bratislava Gasic, SNS, established excellent business co-operation, was saved once by giants, such as "The Last Corporation", which they sold to Bulgarians and which, unfortunately, was sold only with the goal of closing it completely. Today's corporate business is a success. You have the Cooper Tyre, which expanded its facilities, Henkel, which is the first privatised firm in Serbia since 2000, which continues to expand its capacities today. At the time of the Democratic Party of Maltena, it was supposed to be just a warehouse space. You have arranged public areas, you have "Valvolin" which came to Kruševac, the chemical industry "Zupa" is saved, and there is still great support for the private sector, small and medium-sized enterprises, a Business Incubator Center that is now successfully functioning as a startap innovative generator. Kruševac, thanks to the SNS, has also won his first state college which will only be, I'm sure, one of many that will form and be in Kruševec. And from the city of grey, the city where the young people went, Kruševac became a city where young people stay, where children are born and in which the conditions of life are really getting better and better, and that is all thanks to SNS policy and President Alexander Vukic. And whatever conditions they are, and as we have here and reduced the number of necessary signatures and allowed them to be certified by municipal verifyers and all the benefits we have given them which are possible to go to these elections, are citizens who will ultimately make a decision to support whom they will support, and in order to get support they must have work and results, not thief, which is the only thing that characterizes them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10272	I thank Mr. Tomic. The next is National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10273	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I think that fellow Tomic has, in a very good and quality way, analysed the current political situation in our country and what is waiting for us all in the next period, so in five months, which means - parliamentary elections, presidential elections, elections at the level of the city of Belgrade will also define the future of the political scene and everything that will happen in the future of our country. When it comes to the Republic Election Commission, and there will be a SNS with its coalition partners to the fullest extent possible to meet all the demands of opposition parties. During these negotiations that lasted several months, led here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS has shown that it has one huge democratic capacity and is able to achieve the minimum national consensus that we need to meet all the geopolitical, economic and social challenges ahead of our country in the coming period. Of course, it will be difficult, of course, that a large part of that burden will fall on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, but we here, as a majority in parliament, as representatives of the SNS, but also in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are ready to meet these challenges and are ready to further reform our country, that it is economic, military and in every other way we strengthen, so that we can, of course, provide a better life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I must point out one very important aspect regarding this dialogue between the ruling party or the ruling coalition and certain opposition parties, that an agreement has been signed, that we respect all the requirements, proposals, ultimately and criticism, especially those of opposition parties that I have much more respect for than those requested by foreign mediators in this dialogue, but also in this part, SNS and SNS President Aleksandar Vucic responded as one great democratic leader and said – okay, no problem, let anyone come on the side, let's be a mediator, we will continue to lead this country in a good direction, and we are ready in every way to promote the democratic capacity of our country and our institutions. It should be pointed out that these people who did not want the presence of foreigners deserve much more respect, at least for me personally, I have the right as a national MP to express that opinion, given that this practice and what happened from 2000 to 2012, the practice of those who led the state, the practice of courtship, the practice of servitude, the streaming of both today and all that they have become accustomed to in those 12 years, which is to carry out and serve the interests of various centres of power in the world, this is what they want to translate into today's Serbia. Of course, today, after a few years of government and leadership of the SNS state, it's impossible. These people have made these 12 years from Serbia, I can say freely, one of the most important features of a responsible and sovereign government in one country, they have just gotten used to it, and I guess it was easier for them to listen to their pockets and listen better to the interests of various tycoons and to the interests of different centres of power, which had only one wish – to see Serbia on their knees and to squeeze out of Serbia and the last dollar or euro that could be squeezed out by our citizens and by all that Serbia owns from natural, material and all other resources. That is why I especially want to focus on the absence of patriotism, the absence of any responsibility of those people on the Serbian political scene who so solemnly demanded and expected from representatives of foreigners in the dialogue that they would probably bring to them no better election conditions, not a better and better election match, but that they would bring them to that pedestal government without the votes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and without a clear political platform and political idea to offer to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen and all those favored by foreigners who prefer and care for the mediation of foreigners rather than agree with their political opponents and oppose their ideas and oppose their plan for Serbia, Serbia is no longer what it was until 2012, Serbia is today a sovereign country run by and managed by clearly and the only sovereign leader in this part of Europe, which is Aleksandar Vukic. They were not helped by the fact that the foreigners were mediators in the dialogue, and they realized, after a few months, that it was absolutely not about any struggle for election rights, for better electoral conditions, as they can say to improve the rule of law model in Serbia, but that it was about classical politics and a classical absence of political power and political power, which they wanted to compensate, by probably convincing foreigners who would support them and who would lead them to power here in the Republic of Serbia. What I also want to say is that during these negotiations, the parties represented those who were representatives of the social democratic option, therefore, of the Socialist parties in Europarliametna, but also of those who were representatives of the right centre and Vladimir Bilchik and former Euro-Ambassy Kukan. On the other hand, on the left of Tanja Fajon and Knut Flekenstein, who was once an MP, who came from the Federal Republic of Germany. They all understood, and all of them, at the end of this process, said that Serbia had the most normal and democratic conditions for holding elections, which, of course, was this part of the opposition that first demanded mediation and the involvement of foreigners in the negotiations, that is, the dialogue on election conditions, and it welcomed the knife, so by yesterday, those who had sworn and held their best hopes, began to criticise them and to say that it was common, therefore, and a co-ordinated conspiracy between President Aleksandr Vukic, SNS and the European Parliament and Europe, which, as well, supports Vukic with the list for certain reasons. I would also like to say that if I were to comment on the statement by Zdravko Ponoš a few days ago, and I think it's not sad, it would be very funny, it's about a man who performed the highest possible post in the military hierarchy of a country. This is about the Republic of Serbia, our country, he served as Chief of Staff. He, as party representative Vuk Jeremic, said the other day that a potentially new US ambassador, Christopher Hill, is not yet known to come to Serbia, since he has not received acceptance from the Senate, that he will not finish his mandate without being removed from the power of Aleksandr Vukic. In fact, it's probably an unconscious move, a unconscious statement that speaks enough of those people who led our country, our politics, our economy, our defence system, our armed forces and meanings, and clearly shows, now it's come to light with this slogeran policy and what they've become accustomed to and heard during the 12 years of their reign here in the Republic of Serbia. You can imagine a soldier, an honorable and dignified man who can only think of such a thing to say. It's about a man who, while he was in office, did nothing for our army, did nothing to defend our country. And now from the comfortable position of vice presidents quacking the opposition party in our country, he's probably calling for a coup, and he's calling for it, and he's sending a message that one of the ambassadors will be able to replace President Alexander Vukic and drive him out of power tomorrow. I guess because Serbia is growing by 7.5% this year, I guess because Serbia is building roads today, I guess because Serbia is building railways, I guess because Serbia has only one and a broken plane to our shame for those 12 years by 2012, and now it has an entire squadron that Serbia is arming its security forces, which invests in equipment, which invests in human resources and which today we have a much better geopolitical position and position to defend our own vital and national interests. These are people who, according to the latest public opinion polls, have support of 2% or 2.2% of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dragan Gilas, because when he saw a study by the US Democratic Institute, I guess it was not his right that even this party, we don't strangle Belgrade in many municipalities in Belgrade, and about the SNS and I'm not talking about it, he even started to haunt and call it out in his media, the tycoon media of public opinion researchers, began calling analysts and all those who want in one quality and real way to present a political scene and political picture in the Republic of Serbia. We know that this is a very bitter feeling for those who want in Serbia the Ukrainian scenario, for those who want to rob this country, who have already done it once, who think that the Serbian people have a very short memory. I know it's a bitter pill, that the same Alexander Vukic has over 65% of the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Unlike them, he deserved it with his work, his commitment and his fight for better and more modern Serbia. This shows in the previous few days in Glasgow at a large climate summit he met with almost all the key world leaders. Look who he first met with, Boris Johnson, the Prime Minister of Great Britain. Why did he meet with him? Well, because Serbia has many and difficult problems that have not been solved yet, political problems that have been caused in many ways by the UK and by England, but has spoken to it, as well as to Emmanuel Macron, as he has spoken to Angela Merkel. He managed to make friends of those countries that were not absolutely positive towards Serbia, to make them and those leaders strategic partners, but not on words, not through mythomania and something we unfortunately have been used to for decades, but towards concrete moves, concrete jobs, concrete investments by companies from Germany, companies from France. I am convinced that both our bilateral relations with countries and with the United Kingdom, especially with Belik Britain, will experience a kind of quantum leap, that in particular in the area of trade and economy we can take advantage of the full opportunity and that we have a lot of space that I think President Vukic will do maximum on this matter, maximum result. So we will continue and we are ready to talk to everyone who wants good Serbia, to conduct a dialogue with everyone who shares the same vision of Serbia that I share here in SNS, which is a rich, modern country, a country that has a strong army, which takes care of its own national and vital interests. A country that has no leaders who will only go and spend their time going around the region, going around the white world to apologize, but to take care of their own citizens, their wallet, their well-being, their better lives. I want, before I finish, to remind my fellow Members and fellow MPs and to make one brief retrospective of all the things that are not few, which are few rights, which, for God's sake, have a problem with participating in the election race and face our programs and ideologies. That they were the same people who burned the books and Prince Michael's street. These are the same people who burned Goran Vesic's books two years ago in the middle of Belgrade. They're the same people who are on TV channels, tycoon TV channels, telling us that they're gonna chase us down the street and they're gonna hunt us down, chase us down the street, I guess because we're committed to this country, I guess because we're patriots, I guess. In April of next year, although I am sure we will have a hard fight, that competition will be great, the SNS is going in a manner that goes with one good will and good faith of the party that loves this country, but which has a programme for Serbia, not until 2025, but has a programme for Serbia over the next few decades. And this is about one visionary policy and one party, according to the president of our party, is exactly the party that brings together all the "kech's" parties, the biggest party probably by the number of members in all of Europe. It is Serbia and Serbian interests are ideologies that have brought people together in the SNS and which, of course, each in its own way, depending on the ideology it propagates and according to which it has affinities, wants and shares the same interest, which is to improve Serbia, to improve Serbia's capacities and to fight for this Serbia. Therefore, the SNS is the party that will lead long, long-term Serbia in the future because it has people who love this country and who have a plan for this country, not only for the next four years, but for a very, very long period of time. We will continue to strongly, as if we came here yesterday, to support policy and our President Alexander Vukic, because it is the only policy that guarantees Serbia sovereignty and which guarantees citizens of the Republic of Serbia a better and better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10274	Thank you. The next is National MP Dr Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10275	Thank you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when we talk about electoral conditions, we must point out that the government has offered the opposition, all parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties and those parties who will ever be able to cross the censorship offered the best possible electoral conditions. I'd just like to remind you of the election conditions of the 2000s. Let us remember what election conditions were, for example, for the 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2008 or 2012. Let's remember one terrible relationship between the parties, the DS and the coalition partners to the opposition at the time. We remember that with the help of Dragan Gilas, the "Darekt Media" and numerous of their media with national frequencies and most of the printed newspapers, both daily and weekly, as they controlled Serbia's media image. We had a media darkness that was harassing and ruling in the 2000s. Except for the weekly "Pecat", the daily newspaper "Justice", the Radio Focus and one or two television stations that had no national frequencies, but were viewed through the cable, that was all the opposition could have at that time, and in those media, the space also had parties ruling coalitions and oppositions. That media darkness was interrupted in 2012. The elections that were organised in 2014, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2020, we had a number of media and so are today that are against the authorities of SNS and Aleksandr Vucic. Beware of the absurd situation, in most of the media in Serbia, both electronic and printed, Aleksandar Vukic is declared a dictator and controls the media all in Serbia. So, in most media, we have a situation where Alexander Vukic presents himself as a man who is a dictator, who controls all the media. That's all he's talking about is the madness of the opposition's actions and the lies they make public. They have excellent electoral conditions and every honor to all those who have now participated in the negotiations, now have even better electoral conditions, primarily the opposition. One of their conditions is if it can possibly be that Alexander Vukic doesn't appear at all in the campaign, not his name, not himself. My colleague Alexander Mirkovic spoke of this in more detail and excellent terms. Since the opposition, part of the opposition gathered around Djilas and Jeremic, says that Aleksandar Vukic is bad, that he has bad results, that according to them the worst president in Serbia, which then doesn't allow us to have Alexander Vukic as the bearer of the list and that when he's so bad, we use his name in the campaign and then we as SNS have a worse score? But, no, it's not like that. As many as they lied to the people, they are aware of the results of the Serbian government and the results of President Aleksandar Vukic and are aware of Vucic's rating in both Serbia and the region and the world. Just look at the pictures, that's what my colleague Marinkovic was talking about, the pictures from Scotland. European leaders, significant political factors, with great respect, are talking to our president, negotiating with our president, agreeing with our president, agreeing on what we can all do better for both Serbia and the region. Aleksandar Vukic has become a recognizable, recognizable regional leader and European leader. He speaks equally to those who are headed by the most powerful states in Europe and the world. Now, that bothers Dragan Gilas. That is why both Gilasu and Jeremic and Marinika Tepic and Aleksic, whom one of my colleagues spoke of, are bothered by any electoral conditions. They would be most fortunate if there were neither Vucic, nor SNS, nor our coalition partners, and that they won 60% without a choice so that they could seize hundreds of millions of Serbian citizens again. But since we are a country of democracy, and always, so and now, we have given the opposition more than any government could give when it comes to electoral conditions. Election conditions are fantastic for all opposition parties and parliamentary and non-parliamentary. And now not only do we have the same match in the April 3rd election, but we have such a political game where the opposition already has a better score at the traffic lights. Since they're such masters and say the people love them, here you go, show yourselves, let's see what the result is. Maybe that united opposition wins, if it's up to them. But if it is by people and people's will, and in Serbia is the most important people's will, and on April 3, we will witness the new convincing victory of Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10276	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10277	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to say a few things on this subject, first of all I will refer to the agenda item Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the termination of office and appointment in the RIK. I think this is the most important item of the agenda in today's session and today's debate. Among other things, I think it is very important that we focus very well on every time we discuss proposals that will enter RIK, no matter what they are legal, let me say, categories and what arrangements we have made these days with the opposition that has negotiated here in parliament, outside the foreign factor, outside these European parliamentarians, and to say something that I think is most important at this point, when we talk about RIK members, those who have been elected so far and those who will get support in terms of becoming members of RIK by April 3rd. In view of all these announcements that my colleagues have today elaborated in terms of preparations that are trying in the region and in Serbia to announce, both different American and European diplomats in terms of their agenda work here, that on April 3rd prepares themselves as some position in Serbia in which something unfortunately happened in Serbia, and in the context of the elections, the way the elections were realised, the interpretation of the electoral will of the citizens, and the material evidence that in this sense implies and what really happened on October 5th and in what way the representatives were, to say, certain political parties, which were both in power and opposition at the time, played a role in this election commission, and who all collapsed with the foreign factor and in which way they betrayed the Republic of Serbia and what the consequences were in 12 years after that, forming different puppet governments which were exclusively aimed to bring down the national pride of Serbia, and who are going to be the most important in terms of economic terms, that the region, which will be in which the region, which will be in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, the region, that the region, the region, the region, which will be the region, which is in which is the region, the region, which is in which is the region, in which the region, the region, which the region, which the region, the state, the state, the state, the state, which the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, which the state of the state of the state of the state, which is the state, which is the state of the state of the state of the state of the economy of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. The result of all this was seen by 2012 and in such difficult conditions, when we talk about election conditions, we cannot not make a parallel with 2012 as my colleague Mrdić did. I can't forget that in 2012 the SNS did not have any of this which today's opposition and one and the other, as they are now called, because they have neither a single concept, nor a single programme, nor mutual trust with each other, they see Serbia in different ways, no one sees it properly, to compare to that period in 2012, so let me ask - when could the SNS have this number of members of the electoral commission, as they will get this agreement that they signed? When were these independent bodies that would monitor the media and evaluate certain work? If you compare the structure of everything they have today in terms of being available through electronic media, through different TV stations, through newspapers that are printed in Osijek, in the Republic of Croatia, and openly announce here again the scenarios they are seeing, such as October 5th, and to say quite clearly that they have fantastic conditions for elections and that no one has anywhere near them, certainly not in the region. I spent most of my political life and century in opposition. If I were to create one parallel only and a partnership with BiH, not close, not in 10% of the opposition in Republika Srpska or in BiH, there is no such predisposition as there is opposition in Serbia, and that is for our pride. It is an indication that we are not afraid of choices and that we are willing to give much more than anyone has given the opposition which is neither legitimate nor here in parliament, but is extraparliamentary, to compete in the way we are willing to let them go, in a picturesque sense, a few hundred meters in the race for a few kilometers to have an advantage. We are fully convinced that with our strength, energy, will, and above all, the principles that we have to gain the majority support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because our policy is right and because we have an attitude, because we have a spine and because we know what national pride is, what is a national consensus and what are national margins that cannot be crossed. What don't they have and what's the problem with them in that kind of story? Just one more depression to say, when I cited one example of BiH. Many representatives of the opposition, therefore, of these tycoon portals and the media have in the past period, I have not had the opportunity to respond, have spoken of that there are some false, fictitious, dual citizenship of Republika Srpska citizens, because we have in the Republika Srpska citizenship of Republika Srpska and BiH, we have the right to double citizenship of the Republic of Serbia which the former government has ignored and was ashamed and not allowed... All several thousand citizens by 2012 had dual citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, as then the leadership of the Republic of Serbia did not allow Serbs from Republika Srpska, Serbs from BiH to get full dual citizenship, because it was such a policy and should be made clear and loud. The tax was about 200 euros, so there was this material censorship too, many could not afford it. With SNS coming to power, this property, above all, the censorship in terms of this fee being paid, it has been abolished and the procedures have been significantly accelerated, although there are many problems and pockets that mean that this process could go in a much more significant process. I'm very careful about that when I talk about this. I do not think it was such a tactics and strategy of the Republic of Serbia that we have more citizens with double citizenship. That's the example we have in BiH. Every Croat from BiH who was born in BiH lived until the end of the war in BiH, the position of obtaining Croatian citizenship, to get what they say is the Croatian housekeeper, passport, etc. and no one asked that question. In their election conditions, in their fulfillment of the parliament, the quota coming from the diaspora is primarily related to Croats from BiH and no one in the international community and the EU has disputed the issue, but the opposition in the Republic of Serbia is rebelling over it and says that this dynamic and all others affect the election result in the Republic of Serbia, where victory in the presidential elections counts over two million. Just one example of what I'm saying right now. In past parliamentary elections, the total number of BiH voters did not exceed 4,800. If 4,800 voters from BiH, with a wave from Republika Srpska, will decide who will be the future president of the Republic of Serbia or who will have a majority in parliament, then talk enough about how they have no idea and how they have not checked certain things. I would also refer to research of certain public opinions, so they will see why SNS has so much support, so they will see in these surveys why Aleksandar Vukic is in Republika Srpska, not only in the Republic of Serbia, the most popular politician in many years and can no one, not even close, to approach its popularity as citizens of Republika Srpska, esteeming, because of the national policy that Aleksandar Vukic has towards Serbs in the region, primarily towards Republika Srpska, assistance that has been in the era and pandemic and general assistance to all infrastructure works that have been in all the municipalities of Republika Srpska in which they value it. The Republic of Serbia has never had such a president, so Serbia's president said that as long as he is president of Serbia will never be a ramp on Drina, there will never be a blockade on Drina, but there will be a call for co-operation, not only for Serbs, but also for Bosniaks, according to Croats, as we have seen these days that Aleksandar Vukic is the only authority in the region that has called everyone in Belgrade and that he says the right attitudes, respecting the views of all others, to seek compromise solutions for a better future, for a better economy, for co-operation. The answer to all that comes from Sarajevo's Alexander Vukic was building a highway towards Bijeljina, building a highway to Sarajevo. The war-to-war statements that go in this direction, threats that come, false accusations that go towards the leadership of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia's response was to build highways, the response from the Republic of Serbia was "Open Balkans". To all these questions, to return to the opposition here in the Republic of Serbia, they have no answer. The basic problem they have in these elections is not election conditions. The electoral conditions have been found to be significantly better than ever, especially those now negotiated. They have another problem. Several of their problems, I wrote that I could remember, so I ran out of places on this paper that I wrote on, and to figure out essentially what their problem is and why they don't have the support of Serbia's majority. Why don't they have the support in terms of barely transferring and coming up, all of them, to some two-digit figure, and that's what they're saying? Well, they don't have a reason because they don't have answers to key national questions. Here, they have no answer to the question and have no position on our issue and our problem in Kosovo and Metohija. They have no position, no attitude, except that they accuse everything our leadership does in the context of conversations, negotiations, some normal functioning of life, we must live together in these areas, regardless of the problems we inherited. Also, they do not have a position, here I was saying, according to objections to the Republika Srpska and various influences from the International Community that are heading in this direction that Republika Srpska's competencies are being more and more derrogated, in order to reach that position to end Republika Srpska's last moment. Serbia is a guarantee of the Dayton Peace Agreement, a guarantee of Republika Srpska and daily we now have in the new government, which Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have, a position towards Republika Srpska, which is clear to all, both in the world and in the region, is clear to every Serb. They have no position towards Republika Srpska. The Republika Srpska people, well everyone remembers that, wasn't interested at all. It was a ballast for them, like for them the ballast problem of our people at KIM. They don't want a team to deal with, they just look at how to get into congregation benches here and how to perform certain performances here, and they think it's a policy that will be supported by Serbia's majority. This is not a policy that you can get majority support, because you have to be a character, you have to be firm and answer those questions that are most important and that you run away from every day. Also where they have no answer - how will you solve your credibility problem for your leaders in the opposition? Their credibility is at risk of criminal affairs that they had with public enterprises, with public firms, they've stolen, made their phantom firms here in this kind of story, and now they're pushing these candidates into the air and they want them to be someone that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will support. Let me get one more thing straight. They cannot be supported for a simple reason because they have no unity between themselves. They talk about changes here every day. There's no change, gentlemen dear, which you're talking about, unless you're referring to a five-octobaric change without victory. And you don't have math, you don't have attitude, you don't have character, you don't have a program to win. You want to force, you want to hate Alexander Vukic, making up false accusations against him or his family every day, to make it your main platform in the election. There are a number of people who enjoy it, unfortunately, in the Republic of Serbia. And that's a shame. They speak to them, but they do not address Serbia's majority. Most Serbia knew that it rewarded Alexander Vukic and SNS's policy and I am fully convinced that this will continue, because we have answers to all these questions they have not given. The Serbian Progressive Party will not propose tycoons on its lists in the most important positions, propose those who have damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia, propose criminals, propose those who have such national attitudes that are in full co-ordination with the views of certain politicians in Sarajevo or Croatia. Well, when you listen to them, I have a feeling sometimes, or their media, that they have the same not only editorial policy, but that they have the same central, that they all repeat the same story, like parrots. When they repeat that story, it cannot be heard by the majority of Serbia, because it does not want to hear it. He doesn't want disunity. He wants unity, and out of that unity you gentlemen can go to victory, not to the feud, in which you wish to lead the Serbian people. The Serbian people at such difficult times must primarily be unique and have a built national concept and consensus that is needed to survive in such difficult times. They have no answer to the next question - what about the start of the major infrastructure ventures launched by this government, in case you win? Will you stop these projects - building highways, hospitals and everything else, because every day you criticize it? Do you have an answer to that question? Are you going to stop this or are you going to continue these projects because they're good? You can't say anything, because you know you'll continue that kind of story. If you say that, it means that you supported our policy, that we have a good choice in all of this. Also, gentlemen, what do you avoid every day to say -- how in this era of pandemic that's global, which you're trying to focus here on the Republic of Serbia as if it's an infection that can be overcome by any limit, in what way are you going to solve this issue? How will you fight the crown? Which one of you is there at the inoculation? Why don't you shut up? Why don't you say clearly and loudly that Serbian citizens should be vaccinated, because it's for their benefit, for the benefit of their families, you're already silent and you're looking for that kind of story to try to make some kind of rebellion, like we have protests in Slovenia, so that you're enjoying yourself from the limbs and you're flying in. You're separated from all sides and you don't have an answer to any questions. What I'm saying is, here, let me ask -- what is your position towards the great initiative President Vukic launched, what are you going to do with it when, in any case, we come hypothetically to power on the Open Balkans initiative? Are you against it or are you in? What is your response to the geostrategic position of the Republic of Serbia in all of this, when we know how the EU has limited the space of the Western Balkans, and when and within what deadlines does it plan to integrate that area into the EU? What will you do in the meantime, and how can you survive until then? What answer are you giving? How are you going to deal with the energy crisis? In what way? By going to knock in Brussels? As many countries in the region knocked on the Brussels door so they didn't get a single vaccine. President Aleksandar Vucic, thanks to our policy in 2012 we promoted in the foreign policy sense, on four pillars and managed to build a pre-position in which we could get these kinds of vaccines, and you, where are you taking us? As blind, you're taking us to the EU. Here, I'm for the EU, but not at all costs. Not at the cost of the essence of the lives of citizens, of survival in these areas, of destroying for some form, where they still don't know what to do with us, so they're setting us up here conditions that don't even set up their own members. Here is an example of the Republic of Croatia, which is an EU member and has not received the conditions that we are getting. I could write a lot, but unfortunately, I filled out this page, and at the end of all this, I can say that next year we're going to be very soon, in 150 days, that we're going to win and that we're going to continue with the changes. That we will win so that we can further strengthen Serbia to leave stronger and prouder Serbia for the next generations and for our children. That's why we're going to win for mother Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-0.u10278	Thank you, Mr. Schukalo. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right to the Rules of Procedure, want the word? (No) Thank you. I'm concluding a joint single search. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
