ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3048	Thank you, Mr. President. I will ask a few questions concerning a large number of people from both southeastern Serbia and Serbia, and in particular issues concerning pension rights for those who are 40 years old and are not 65 years old. By the way, I was there when we voted for the Retirement Insurance Act, which was brought back, I think it was 2018 or 2016, where under that law, because of the stabilisation of the budget due to the necessary things, the law was passed, where under the law the age was set 65 and for men, and now for women, and that for those people who retire 65 years earlier, there is a 4% sanction for those people for one year if they leave early. So if he was 60 or 40 or 41 years old, he'd have a 20% less pension than he'd have. I am aware that the situation is what it is, that there are fewer workers who are now paying their pensions towards the number of pensioners, although this scale is growing in favour of workers, more people are employed because of Kovid, there are also problems, but it would be good, and I ask the competent ministry that is the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Employment. Since one of the ministers in the previous councils said it would be changed and that people who are 40 years old will be retired 60 years, that up to 65 years of retirement will have the sanctions, or 4% penalty. And when you're 65 years old, there won't be any punishment. I'm interested, and that's what a large number of our citizens are interested in, whether they're from my neighborhood or some other neighborhood, because there's a lot of people who work for a long time, they have 40 years of employment but they don't have years of age, so they'd love and want to, and that's what one of the previous ministers who's been in that ministry announced that it's going to be changed and that only up to 65 years will be charged with those sanctions, penalties, that is, to reduce the number to 4% per year and that it will be up to 65 years. I'm asking, is it planned to change that in the next period, and that for all those people who are 42 or 43 years old, and they don't have 65 years of age when they're 65 years old, they don't charge a fine because they're retired early than they're 65 years old, because they deserve it. This law was necessary, but as the situation in our country is stabilised in a financial situation, I would like it to be done as soon as possible because it destabilizes a large number of people who work not to pay for health and pension insurance because they do not, or when they are 65 years old, and they have fewer charges at that time. One more thing I would say, I will support and ask the Crisis Staff, since Mr. Palma also said that these measures are a little amortizing when they are weddings, because for all of us who come from the interior, from all over Serbia people look forward to making joy for their daughter, for their son, for their grandson, so it would be a good thing to be amortised and to have the possibility that our hosts, that our Serbs, that all those who live next to our country can normally make a wedding and that this possibility be how we allow our situation to be related to this disease covid. And lastly, I would like to thank all of Serbia's citizens once again, and I would like to invite all of our people in Kosovo to come out and vote for the Serbian List on 14 February, a list supported by both our President Vukic and our President of the Dacic Assembly and a large number of our people, almost all people here support that list. I call on all people living here in Serbia or downstairs in Kosovo to come out on February 14th, it is the Holy Trifun, the Zaresac, to go out and vote for the Serb list, because it is the only way we can save our country, only by giving support to our brothers and sisters downstairs who are in Kosovo. Once again, my dear Serbs, my dear people, come out on February 14th and vote for the Serbian list because it is the only way to save and protect our country Serbia, because Serbia is Kosovo and Kosovo is Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3049	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Selma Kučević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3050	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I ask my question to the Minister of Health, Mr. Lonchar. In the course of the pandemic that covered the entire state of the Sanjay municipality recorded the catastrophic consequences of this monster. During his visit and in oral address, the minister approved the employment of workers in the municipality's health home, but in practice this has not been realised so far. The Tutin municipality, although it forms part of the most underdeveloped municipalities and the poorest municipalities, sets out a large percentage of its budget for the financing of medical workers and primary protection work to enable its citizens to receive adequate health care. Also, the work of field hospitals, which are served by several thousand citizens, is also funded by the Tutin municipality from its budget. Since there has been no employment in this municipality's health care home for years, and even the empty jobs of retirement, specialising in the health care of the municipality and the lack of cadre. Youth, young doctors, healthcare professionals leave due to lack of motivation, go abroad in search of their business and existential solution. I must mention, indeed, that the diaspora of this municipality is making a tremendous effort to provide the citizens of the Tutin municipality with adequate health care. Their help is reflected in a series of activities, such as donations of various appliances, scanners, x-rays, and also construction and equipment of the diagnostic centre. Although some jobs were approved a few days ago, two, for two doctors and two jobs for healthcare professionals with medium professional training, it is absolutely insufficient for the functional and adequate work of this home of health. Therefore, I ask Mr. Minister – will he fulfill his promises already made on several occasions, both in July 2020 and in 2019, on a formal visit to this home of health, and will he approve the necessary jobs for the functional and adequate work of this institution, and enable the citizens of this municipality to have a modest and dignified health system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3051	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3052	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, I would like to ask the question of both the Prime Ministers and the Ministers for Environmental Protection, and the question of the pollution of the Vernaya and the air in Backo Topoli. The question is, what is the government of the Republic of Serbia planning, or the Ministry of Environmental Protection, to do to prevent further pollution of Crimea and air in Backo Topoli? How and how can the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, or the Regional Secretary for Urbanism and Environmental Protection, help the municipality of Backo Topol on whose territory is this problem? The municipality of Backo Topola, which I come from, has been facing problems of polluting the Vernaya and the air in the city for years. In the municipality of a lot of development projects started and ended in the previous period, the industrial zone developed dynamically, we have a beautiful lake with a bath, we have finished home of students, we have a top football academy, a football stadium is being built in the center of town. Also, the building is being renovated by several hotels in the city centre. So good things happen. However, everyone who comes to Backo Topol unfortunately remembers the city in a bad smell, not to mention citizens living in the neighboring village of Baša, because a word of Krinaj flows through the village, which has a very unpleasant smell thanks to the pollution of the same. Unfortunately, there are more contaminants, than the Backotopol city sewerage, through various businesses, but at this point a wastewater purifier is being built, which will surely solve a part of the problem this year. The major contaminants include the Zibel factory, which processes inedible secondary products of slaughtered animals. To be sure, for our municipality, this company is just as important as the other companies operating in the territory of our municipality, we care about workers and employees of a company doing very serious work and sensitive work. We all know that dead animals and slaughterhouses pose a constant potential danger as possible sources of infectious material and as environmental pollutants. The spread of livestock infections and the huge material damage that they can do, as well as the possibility of some of these infections moving on to humans, has become a problem and concern for the whole of our country. If all aspects are properly taken into account, it is clear how important it is to address the harmless removal of slaughterhouse inedible and parallel products of slaughter and dead animals in order to prevent the spread of bovine infectious diseases, the effective protection and recovery of the environment and the rational use of these wastes. However, it is also important to all of us that all companies operate in accordance with all the laws and sublaws of our country, and also that citizens of Backa Topola do not have to suffer the unpleasant smell in the air and the unpleasant smell of the word Krilje, which is felt by Backa Topola through Bajša, and Mali Ijoš to Feketic. The questions I'm interested in. How and how does the company Gibel operate with regard to the accession of environmental regulations? Does he pay the state any fines for endangering the environment, or for not fulfilling certain conditions of sublegal acts? In the previous period which the competent state authority and how did it exercise control over sensitive business operations? Have samples and tests been taken of the quality of the samples from the Vernai sentence? What competent state authority, and how did it identify the contaminants of the Vernai and control their business? How and how can a local self-government help a private company build its own purifier? I hope to receive answers as soon as possible on behalf of all citizens of the Municipality of Backa Topola and Mali Ijoš, and I hope that we can find a solution together to all the problems mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3053	The People's Messenger, George Milecevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3054	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Mr. President, my question is addressed to you and I ask you that if you are able, and so far answer that question immediately, because I think it is important, first of all, for the public, because in the media over the last few days, we can all see different inscriptions and texts of different contents, and the truth, we need to hear right here in Parliament. It's about inter-party dialogue. I think it is important that we hear this very truth here from Parliament, because parliament is the institution of a system in which such a kind of conversation is being held and in which such a kind of conversation will be held. I also spoke about this at a session of the Stabilisation and Association Committee, where one of the co-chairs, besides Mr Orlic, was Mrs Tanja Fajon, a representative of the European Parliament. So it is absolutely undeniable that the ruling coalition wants to continue the dialogue, but here is the question of terms, in fact, from the very format and topic of dialogue. So it is absolutely undeniable that the ruling coalition wants to continue the dialogue, but here is the issue of the very format and topic of dialogue. Since March 1st is approaching and the second phase of inter-party dialogue should follow, what I want to ask you is whether you and Mr. McAllister have defined the content of the dialogue itself, because the content of the dialogue will actually depend on how successful inter-party dialogue will be? On the other hand, when it comes to the opposition, first of all to the extraparliamentary opposition, and many of them, I think it is very important for the opposition to try to find a common denominator, to try to find out what are concrete proposals, if such proposals and such suggestions even exist that could improve election conditions. The attitude we've had since one part of the opposition, 42 demands or boycott, simply, is not the space to come to some sort of agreement and some kind of conversation. We have had a responsible and serious approach when it comes to inter-party dialogue. We didn't look at him formally and decoratively. I would like to point out once again that what was the result of the first phase of inter-party dialogue has been more than 90% implemented since the period of completion of the inter-party dialogue, when the position and European parliamentarians were made to make a qualitative step forward, which leads exactly to a democratic spirit. When it comes to the opposition, I think there's an absolute confusion going on, and I know it's hard for you, too, because you simply can't limit anyone from participating in the dialogue. In opposition, one does not want to participate with representatives of the European Parliament. There's a part of the opposition that doesn't want to go with the anti-boys. There's one part of the opposition that doesn't want to participate with those who participated in the election. One part of the opposition considers itself an elite part of the opposition. Now there's a part of the opposition that thinks you shouldn't be co-chairing, because you're part of the government, so the question is, who would they actually want to talk to? In public, here we are today, in the media and today we have some signs that they have come up with a certain platform of talks by the opposition, and my next question is, have you received these platforms at all, have you had a chance to look at them, because it is extremely unserious for that part of the opposition to talk again about inter-party dialogue, so far it has been in hotel lobbys, and now it looks like we're going to do it through the media? Third question. Recently, in one of the daily papers, I read the title that you started talks with opposition representatives. I know you didn't, that you only received one representative of a political option, who wanted to direct you to a particular initiative, which is legitimately right, and which is the responsible and serious relationship between you as speaker of parliament, regardless of which they are a non-parliamentary party. Finally, if someone from the opposition thinks that the result of this inter-party dialogue will be some kind of transitional government, which should replace the Parliament, which should replace the government, then we should absolutely not start that kind of inter-party dialogue. Democracy takes place in the elections and only elections can change Serbia's political course. If the ruling coalition is not afraid of choice, I don't know where the opposition needs it, and what's the reason the opposition is afraid of the election? Well, I guess they care about coming to power as soon as possible. At the very end, another finding. That's my personal opinion, and here you can confirm, and that was done in media headlines and content, that you disqualified someone in this dialogue. The opinion of the SPS parliamentary group is that you have absolutely disqualified no one, but merely conveyed the position to Mr McAllister, the largest part of the political parties involved in the dialogue, which is the objectivity of the European parliamentarians and that the European parliamentarians are not biased, not to side with one part of the opposition. At the very end of another sentence, I am taking the opportunity to no longer report today, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to invite all those living in Kosovo and Metohija, to consider Serbia as their country, to call on all those internally displaced persons to vote for the Serb list on 14 February, because this is about the future, this is about the survival of the Serb people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3055	Thank you. Since George asked me to immediately explain that everything that is new in this communication is related to inter-party dialogue, we talk about it regularly. Every Tuesday, we have meetings of the National Assembly College, and they are all detailed. Namely, I spoke to McAllister a few days ago as a signator of the letter, based on which Maja Gojkovic responded positively at the time of her term as National Assembly President, where the inter-party dialogue was launched and where the second phase of inter-party dialogue is scheduled to take place after the parliamentary elections ahead of the next parliamentary elections. Of course, many circumstances have changed there, among other things, that many parties that had previously participated, i.e. started participating in this dialogue now are no longer in parliament, some because of non-participation, some because they have not crossed the 3% censorship, so we will essentially continue with our goodwill, so to speak, to conduct an interparty dialogue. The dialogue is agreed to begin in March of the month. I even proposed March 1st as some possible date for this first exchange of views that would be between me as the president of the National Assembly and the representative of the European Parliament. What is certain, we have expressed our views on those who have so far participated in this dialogue by the European Parliament and our request that there be a high level of objectivity if someone really wants to support this dialogue. McCallister suggested that, given the pandemic and the need for a large part of these activities to be carried out on the spot, not just remotely, that, except for these two representatives who perform certain functions that are related to Serbia, which are Tanja Fajon and Bilchik, these two former parliamentarians, who have also started the dialogue, Flekenstein and Edward Kukan, return to dialogue. It remains that in the next twenty days, by the beginning of March, these technical details of the debate, which means that we still haven't agreed on the details of these unknowns that we talked about, the format that we're thinking about, which are participants. As you said yourself, there is some opinion, they always have in themselves some elitist opinion that only they should participate, one part, a few parties, that they are the most important and that no one else is important anymore. Our opinion is that everyone should participate. Of course, there is another problem, and there are parties that do not want to be discussed in the presence of foreigners, which means that we will have to listen to their opinion, whether within this dialogue or some other platform, we will see it in the next period, and also agree on the dynamics and topics of this dialogue, because dialogue is not a font wish. Every wish comes to mind, and it has nothing to do with political reality. All in all, so far nothing new has happened on that plan. We have a college every Tuesday and we share an opinion on it and, of course, inform each other. Thank you. Let's move on. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3056	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, spoke in his own language on Tuesday. Otherwise, he's a member of the national minority and no one's slowing it down. His right, according to the Constitution, is that he can speak in his own language, but none of us understood what that messenger was saying. He attacked all the rulers in Serbia over one court decision and my question concerns the government. I want the government to answer me and Minister Vulin, because the court did not condemn Vulin for using the term "Sceptari". I personally heard from Eddie Rama, who called the Albanian Shiptars, so I'm ordering that they sue Eddie Rama. A fellow MP may have to ask how that 1,300 terrorists were released from Serbian prisons during Kostunica's time as prime minister? Of course, he was ordered, he didn't do it by his own free will. This organized group and gang were headed by Flora Brovina. Like, they used to trade cigars, not terrorists. A large number of those then released from Serb prisons were seen in the UCK uniform. When are you going to stop, as Serbs do not, constantly attacking Serbia and Serbian citizens and making it the only topic in the election campaign? Serbian parties have never been the subject of elections in southern Serbia, when it comes to municipalities and towns where Albanians live, we have already talked about the programme, that the users of the programme are all nations living in Serbia, especially in southern Serbia. He said it was ethnic cleansing, etc. What ethnic cleansing, ethnic cleansing, has been experienced by Serbs and genocide. How many Serbs live in Pristina today and how long has it lived before? How many Serbs live in Djakovica today and how many lived before the war? How many Albanians on the list today on KIM and how many were there not during the war but before the war? A lot more. So, the Serbs were expelled and the Albanians settled, who never lived on KIM. It is the right of an MP to speak, but we cannot keep quiet, because the MP spoke in his speech of both Angela Merkel and McCron, he also called them, how injustice was in Serbian courts. I'm asking the government to answer me and go through the Trnovac, the biggest drug dump and drug dealers. Trnovac is not prohibited, to enter Trnovac and to see how many of them in Trnovec are involved in drug distribution. I'm sure our police have that and that doesn't tolerate it anymore. Have them report as soon as possible. Here, I'm looking for, on behalf of the Single Serbia Parliament Club and my coalition partners, the SPS and not to mind the other parties, that I call on your behalf, that the police do the Trnovac and give a report to the National Assembly or to the Security Committee what they found in Trnovec. When it comes to KIM elections where Albanians are, the Serb list does not attack Albanians, but only defends itself when Albanians attack them. And there is a competition between Albanian leaders, the party president, who will attack Serbs more because it will give him more votes. I'm sending a message to the Albanians in KIM -- you used to work with Serbia, let's go back to working economically with Serbia, don't ask anyone to forget something you've been pulsing in your heads, and we Serbs who were the victim of the NATO pact aggressor to start working together. If such a poll were to be conducted on KIM, I guarantee all Kosovo leaders would lose. What are you gonna do? To bring foreign investors, like Serbia does? How many people have you vaccinated? What can we do for you? I am sure that the government of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic and Ivica Dacic are ready to help Kosovo Albanians when it comes to vaccines, etc., but their leaders are making such rhetoric and sending militant messages, wartime, false, to distance the Albanian people from Serbia. Serbia wants to co-operate with everyone, as it co-operates with all nations living in the Republic of Serbia, but we also ask that the constitution be respected. Everyone can talk about this phone booth and protect him, but if he's lying, we can't keep our mouth shut. That gentleman was telling a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3057	Mr. Markovic, five minutes have passed. Thank you. When you mentioned amnesty, pardon and others for Albanian separatists and terrorists, and here, in this House, unfortunately, these laws were passed after 2000, during the DOS regime, and the greatest irony is that Albin Kurti was pardoned by then Yugoslav and Vojislav Kostunica and released from prison in Nis. But that's not the point now. National MP Marko Parezenović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3058	I'm going to ask two questions today. The first issue concerns the Ministry of Finance, as regards information we could hear in the media in the previous days regarding the tax evasion of former Belgrade Mayor, former minister and former DS President Dragan Gilas. According to information we could read, Dragan Gilas has moved more than fivem euros from Serbia to Switzerland, in a small town called Cug, which is otherwise known to represent a tax paradise around the world and is known for having more registered companies than residents in the town. It was in that town that Dragan Gilas founded his company in 2014, in the administration of the company appointed his brother Goko Gilas, to replace his brother personally in the management of the company after he had made public information that Gojko Gilas had 29 apartments in the most popular part of Belgrade. What I want to ask now is, what kind of mechanisms does the state of Serbia have to prevent sending money from Serbia to other countries, especially if Dragan Gilas and his like continue to evacuate their capital, considering that we have a recent application of the Property Origin Act? What is also asked as a question – how is it even possible for someone who avoids paying taxes in their country, something that is the basic thing, which is a question of social hygiene, to have the moral right to deal with politics and be part of the public space in this country, to lecture us all on what needs to be done in this country, to represent themselves as a moral vertical, and that is true for all of their media that are registered in Luxembourg and who knows where, who are excluded from the law of this country and who do not pay taxes in this country? Let them go to Switzerland and Luxembourg, and let them deal with politics there, and let them have their senses there. In this regard, I would ask another question to the MUP, the Ministry of Culture and Information and all media associations. In the first place, I want to absolutely welcome the readiness of the Serbian state to strike a decisive blow to crime and the mafia in Serbia in a very serious way, because not only have some people been arrested, but very serious evidence has been collected from which very serious indictments and judicial proceedings should arise, because this is the most important. If you arrest someone, they don't have their own quality court epilogue. But like every time something good happens in Serbia, there is an absolute anxiety and hysteria about the part of the already mentioned tycoon-media octopus. In these days, we see that what has been happening for the past few years continues intensively. It is one of the most brutal, brutal campaigns against Serbian President Alexander Vukic, and with the aim of absolutely criminalising himself every day, to present himself as a legitimate target against which absolutely everything is allowed, and to be violently removed from power or as they have already told us repeatedly to experience Ceausevski's fate or to have some kind of Ukrainian, Macedonian, Bolivian scenario and whatnot. Practically, every time something bad happened in the world, when blood fell in a city, opposition representatives hoped such a thing could happen in Serbia. And there is no longer a question of whether or not these campaigns will be, but just a question of who will be the target, whether the president, a member of his family, a brother, a son, a father and that campaign will last for years. The previous days have become very intense, and if anyone wonders why that is, I just ask the citizens to think only a little bit about what happened in just the past few months from the construction of two hoofs of the hospital in a very short time that helped us put all the patients in Kovid, to a very well-organized vaccination, where we are as the state among the best in the world. We received early this year and confirmation from international financial institutions that we had the slightest drop in the economy in the previous year. There was also an increase in wages and pensions, even in the year when we have an epidemic of Kovid, and another programme of support for citizens and businesses, parallel to that state, so I would say in the last 15 years, never a stronger blow to crime and the mafia. In the past 10 to 15 days, Serbia's president held meetings and talks with practically all the world's largest leaders, from east to west, and all of this resulted in one huge hysteria and anxiety by the already mentioned tycoon-media octopus. It has gone so far that not only do they call Serbia a fascist country, but Dragan Gilas goes so far as to call the world's greatest leaders to create a neo-fascist system in Serbia. So, it's just saying how big this anxiety is, how many people are no longer being criticized by the president or by proposing some of their ideas and programmes, they're dealing with 24 hours a day exclusively with the criminalisation of the president and his family. And that is something that all authorities must give a clear answer not only to them but to the whole public, because it is about the legitimately elected president of Serbia. I think it's unacceptable, especially in a country where a relatively nearly killed prime minister, one such campaign is being run. I really expect from all the authorities, which I have already mentioned, to finally give one strong answer to this totally unacceptable campaign, and also from all other public life actors and political parties, from media representatives and media associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3059	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would just like to remind you, since MP Shaip Kamberi has been answering questions, or using this right on the basis of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure, to remind the Rules of Procedure, are provided that no replicas and references are allowed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure during the duration of the question and the answer. We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Đuro Peric and Ugljesa Markovic. We continue to work and move on to the Joint Main Search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 4 and 5 of the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 195, as referred to in Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a Joint Principle Search on the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2(1), point 3. Law on the prevention of corruption, with correction and a proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 64(1). The law of higher education, with correction. Both proposals were submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3060	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have two proposals on the agenda for an authentic interpretation, as we could hear from the President of the Assembly. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives sent a proposal for acts for their adoption to the National Assembly, so I would first immediately suggest that the National Assembly adopt them in the voting day. One proposal refers to the provision of the Anti-Corruption Act relating to the definition of "public official". Therefore, it is about persons directly elected by citizens, persons elected, appointed or appointed by the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Parliament of the Autonomous Province, the Government of the Autonomous Province, the bodies of the local self-government units, the High Council of the Judiciary, the State Greater Prosecutors and the Supreme Court of Cassation. As regards the second proposal, the second proposal concerns the provision of the Higher Education Act relating to the selection of the authority of the higher education institution. So there is a possibility that teachers, who turned 65 years old, can extend their working relationship by a certain contract with a higher education institution to a certain time to two years. That extension can be repeated twice and they're not actually chosen indefinitely. This contains the contents of this authentic interpretation. So they can't be elected to the authority of a higher school institution, because it's just one of the conditions that they've been chosen indefinitely. For example, for the post of rector, dean, president of the Academy of Professional Studies or director of the school of vocational studies. I will also refer briefly to important things concerning the functioning of the state and important things concerning the better standard of living of our citizens. We've had opportunities in the previous days to listen and talk about the first 100 days of government work. In order to be able to talk about the results at all, but in order to be able and to work, we must first preserve peace and stability. We have resisted challenges and problems, and all these years we have kept peace and stability despite the complex situation both with Pristina and in the region and in recent years in some complex situations concerning the internal events in our country. We had calls for the collapse of constitutional order, we had incursions to the National Assembly, demonstration of verbal violence, and even physical violence, but we managed to establish peace in accordance with all international and legal standards, of course with minimal physical coercion and to actually preserve the citizens, the state and the institutions of our country from the hooligans. Peace and stability are a prerequisite for one country's development in every sense. In the last eight years, for example, we have a stable dinar course at 117, 118, which Serbia has never had before. We have put a lot of effort and work into achieving macroeconomic and fiscal stability, which, I must say, are not at all at risk. All this, of course, brings us new investments, brings us jobs, opens up jobs, builds our country and makes us ready and in further steps, taking further steps in Serbia's accession to the EU, but makes us ready to build good relations with neighbours in the region, but also with all other countries and makes us ready, of course, for some further economic progress that we have certainly planned. Speaking of economic progress in 2020, we ended up with a public debt rate of 56.8% at government level, or 57.8% compared to GDP at the level of the entire state with all local self-government. We now hold a public debt below the 60 per cent masticht level and it is important that the citizens of Serbia know that, because it is important for the current functioning of the state, but it is important for some future where we will be absolutely certain that we have not made or left some major debts. In 2021, the public debt rate should not exceed 61%. So we will have big investments in infrastructure, in highways, in construction and reconstruction of over 1,200km of regional and local roads. We'll have the construction of sewers, wastewater treatment plants, etc. We are now the first in Europe at the rate of growth. We'll try to keep it that way in 2021. Also, by the end of the year, the average salary in Serbia is expected to be 570 euros, and the average pension should exceed 270 euros. In the last year, we remember, we had multiple increases in wages and pensions. We also had these one-time payments of 100 euros to all citizens who, of course, raised consumption, but also raised some economic optimism. For this year, there is also a plan to increase wages and pensions, there is a plan and there are several one-time givings, and we expect the plan to be announced either by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic or by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic in the coming days. It just means that in economic terms, we are the best to endure the epidemic of all European countries and that because of this we have the opportunity to continue to work on implementing the measures that we planned in the previous years anyway. What is a long-term plan, which I would particularly point out, is the realisation of the "Serbia 2025", which is worth 14 billion euros, from which I would single out six billion euros for road infrastructure, three and a half billion euros for railway infrastructure, 500m euros for the incentive of birth, 700m euros for culture and education, etc. and I am quite sure that Serbia in these areas, as in other areas, will be a leader not only in the region, but also in Europe and the world. This leadership is currently speaking in favor of the opening of the gas pipeline for commercial gas traffic at a cost of $155 per 1,000 cubic metres and why this is important for our citizens today I want to talk about it. I haven't talked about it before. It's important because we as a state were interested in a lower price of gas, but also for equally good quality. Anyway, we took some loans to build a pipeline and through fees we'll get money that can go back on those loans. On the other hand, these are some problems that, I say, are everyday, which our citizens are concerned about. So we're going to have to work on internal gasification. Many people are still heating on solid fuels that pollute air, although in some parts of our country there are both primary and secondary pipelines. It is clear that many houses, so to speak, and for many Serbian citizens a large investment to buy a boiler, to pay for the connection, etc. And what I can tell the citizens at this point is that the state will also work to create more favourable conditions, because that way we will provide cheaper fuel for our citizens, and at the same time we will provide cleaner air. As for the need for economy, for example, Teklas wanted to build another car parts factory, but they said they needed gas, so that means we have to quickly build a pipeline network that is directed towards smaller cities and municipalities, so that we can attract investment and increase our competitiveness on the market. Why do I say to smaller municipalities and cities? Because we have promised a balanced regional development. The best, of course, can be seen, for example in Nis from which I come. A few days ago, the president announced the opening of the seventh factory in Nis. He personally opened six factories in Nis. Today we can respond to both the scientific and technological park and the new Clinical Centre in Nis and many projects for which Alexander Vukic himself insisted that they be realised until the end of which hundreds of millions of euros were invested. We can take Gracanica for example, where six million euros were invested for the hospital. We can take the example of the Cup where a hospital will be built that will invest 30m euros, and I note all that at a time when the great cities of the great European countries in battle with the coronary virus are closed, our cities are not only not closed, but are further developing. I would like to say that aside from all the costs that we planned to fight the crown of the virus, a few days ago, the government of the Republic of Serbia decided to allocate funds to treat those suffering from rare diseases in the amount of three billion dinars for the year 2021 alone. I will remind you that in 2008, the amount was zero dinars, 130 million dinars in 2012, and in 2014, when Aleksandar Vucic became Prime Minister, the first time the fund was formed, where the funds were actually being collected for the treatment of rare diseases, and from 2014 to today, these funds were only increasing. We invested a lot of money in the health system, and that's one of the reasons why we didn't kneel before the attack of the coronary virus that certainly surprised us all. I also want to say something about how citizens would know - Serbia is the first in Europe to immunise the population, and that is precisely what shows that work is done in a committed and responsible manner. We heard announcements that we'd start producing vaccines. While other countries are struggling to obtain vaccines, we are planning and producing vaccines parallel to that vaccine fight, which will certainly mean a huge step forward for us, it will mean that we will no longer have to depend on the market or on someone's goodwill or on the situation that we simply, as we found ourselves in the situation that we ordered and paid for the vaccines, but simply there are no vaccines. For the citizens to know, there are 50,000 doses of Russian Sputnik vaccine for the first vaccine and there are another 50,000 to reoccur. By the end of February, another 88,000 Fezer vaccines will arrive. By the end of February, between 125 and 150 thousand AstraZenek vaccines will arrive. The importance of 500 thousand Chinese vaccines is to be spoken of and 500 thousand Chinese vaccines will, together with the vaccines that I just cited, actually provide Serbia with the first place in Europe to immunise the population. So at this point, we can say that we are really stepping forward towards the ultimate victory of the crown of the virus. This means that by the end of February in Serbia, we will have millions of people completely vaccinated and rehabilitated, which means two million doses, which cannot be praised by many countries at this time in Europe. I also wanted to point out something else, which is of great importance to the citizens of Serbia, and it also stems from our co-operation with China. It is a contract with the Chinese company SRBS on the construction of sewage systems in 65 municipalities in Serbia worth 3.2 billion euros, and at this point I cannot not mention the township of the Red Cross in Nis, whose committee I am also, where there is no sewage network or complete sewerage network from 23 villages at this point in 19 villages. The contract implies that up to 80% will be built in these municipalities to which the contract applies, which will mean a great chance for the sewerage network to reach remote villages and remote houses. In the field of education, we have achieved great results by introducing dual education, which has led to the progress seen in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Denmark, but also with us. People got a job. The key advantage of dual education is that at the age of 16, people are actually ready for the challenges of the job they have chosen, but they are ready to start contributing to themselves, to their families, ultimately to the state. It is important that they are trained and that they can start working, of course further education and training always stands as a possibility. This will only mean that the application of dual education in Serbia will only mean that responsibility and seriousness will be qualities that will develop among our students. There is a period behind us where Serbia was not so successful, and then behind us is the period of fiscal consolidation and the difficult changes that we have brought. With us, the system was not such, it was not organised in such a way that as one of the major changes, dual education could also be introduced. However, we can already talk about the benefits of dual education that have triggered not only new employment and strengthening of economy and economy, but also the awareness that we must work at the same time and learn to step up with the competition that exists in the world in order to be sure that we will survive, but also that we will be able to make progress. I want to dedicate this time today to some current topics that are current these days, as well as to the arrest of Velimir Belivuk's criminal group. One thing is clear, the state has shown its determination to deal with organised crime. People's MPs also did their part of the work when we were changing, that is to say, adapting to the provisions and the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure when we passed the Law in the fight against organised crime, it remained of course to the competent state authorities to do their job. They will do their job if the state is run by a strong president and a strong government, as is the case today. It is quite clear that it is not about the arrest of some cheerleading group, because the police in all the facilities that were connected to this group who was arrested have found large amounts of drugs, money, weapons, and not just any weapon, but, for example, a sniper, who I believe that fan groups certainly do not use for each other's accounts. It is logical that certain questions have arisen in public. One of these questions is also whether this sniper was obtained with the aim of executing the assassination of President Alexander Vukic, if we know that he first and in an unequivocally declared war on the mafia? So Alexander Vukic is the first man to ask for a legislative framework to be applied and asked to persist in the fight against crime. And while on the one hand we have a complete and deliberate one, it seems to me that the criminalization of Alexander Vukic and his even son, and his brother, while citizens, through the media financed by Dragan Gilas, are daily served by imaginary affairs that only the president or his closest associates would be brought into contact with certain criminal groups, now, on the other hand, we have a reasonable suspicion that the assassination of the president was under way. Many times here in this room we've pointed to that sniper on the front page of the NIN and the potential possibility that one day we'll be talking about the assassination of the first president of this country, which, unfortunately, we're talking about today. Fortunately, lightning and well-organised action and reaction by the competent authorities have been prevented by the scenario of this type. The state has shown that it has the power to deal with all forms of crime and, most importantly, has sent a message that there are no protected ones in this fight. President Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian government and state authorities have unequivocally supported MPs from the election list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, to fight the mafia, because the rule of law should be the basis on which we will build a developed, modern and strong state. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3061	I thank my colleague. Before we continue to work further, I would like to inform you that you could plan today's work, that a vote on the points on today's agenda, or in the meeting of this session, is expected 1600 hours. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word of the people sent by Muamer Zukorlic came to pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3062	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that by accepting the proposed conclusions for authentic interpretation of these two members of the law, we will certainly contribute to a more precise understanding of these legal provisions, respecting the arguments offered to us. They're both about education. First, it is intended to identify and specify more clearly the category of public officials in the education system, and yet to facilitate the Anti-Corruption Agency to better understand and be more precise and certainly more effective in the fight against corruption and the education sector. In any event, the second proposed conclusion on authentic interpretation refers to higher education where it was necessary to identify more precisely the categories to which they relate, in particular this part concerning the possibility of further involvement of professors or scientists after their retirement. But the subject of education whenever it opens up or is in front of us on the agenda, its importance does not allow it to remain exclusively attached to what is a concrete proposal in terms of today’s or any other job. Education is the most important or strategic most important category for every society and country. So far, in some segments, we've given enough meaning. Perhaps education, perhaps most of all in the legislative aspect and I am also a witness through the Committee on Education, leading this committee and in the past term, but also in all other communications at the level of the National Assembly, that there has been a serious will to further improve education and enable it to have the best legal framework in order to further improve, improve, improve. The very fact that in the past term we have very often dealt with the laws of the education sector shows, in fact, how much we have been willing to give importance to education and how much we have actually heard about all the initiatives that have come, whether from other factors in society, and therefore we have had a session with the subject of the law in the field of education. However, we cannot stand exclusively on the legislative aspect and matter itself. Society and state are engaged in other segments of importance for a man, that is, every citizen of this country. True, the most significant part of energy goes to the field of economy, or economy. That is why, in recent years, we have the most noticeable effects in terms of progress, resuscitation, or recovery of the economy, which unfortunately suffered severe shocks and experienced many crises in the past, not just years, but even decades. However, it is known throughout the civilization experience that the mistakes and failures you make in the economy, however large you can start removing them in a few years, and you can even remove them in five and 10 years, no matter how many these mistakes are, for a decade you can mostly, a capable government can remove these mistakes, restore the state of the economy, or make them on the right path and on stable legs. However, ladies and gentlemen, if you make mistakes in the education of any kind, legislative or practical or organisational, and especially if these errors become anomalies, and especially if these anomalies occur, then know no chance, not for a decade, five decades, such anomalies cannot be removed. To form a university professor on the condition that you get a talented candidate, it takes 20 to 25 years. To form a good teacher and teacher, it takes 15 years. It's a huge time to simply change the ringleader, to change the coach, to change the captain of that ship, and on condition that you never miss, provided you have a great system in the selection of personnel. But if you make mistakes, the consequences are long-term. This is what I represent in this way to draw attention to knowing that most in this National Assembly care about not only proper and healthy processes in society, but we care that we actually understand what the main problems are. By following all the flows in society over the past years, especially in the last five years, as I have been active in politics, here and the sector, that is, the problem of corruption, the problem of crime, thank God, it shows courage to deal with various forms of crime and corruption from the highest level in this country and with all our capacities. However, I am drawing attention, the only exception is that so far it has not shown either courage or perhaps not detected enough the fact that organised groups exist in the education sector as well. You can call them criminal, you can call them oligarchical, interesting, whatever you want, but their influence is the same. I was even thinking about asking for answers about why we had the courage to stand up to various mafias, from travellers, to these classical ones, to not know what kind of, but to the educational mafias so far, we haven't been on the line. That is probably why there are certain reasons, even psychological reasons. All of us sitting in these benches have certain respects for our professors, mostly these very large, large professorly sizes, we see as a higher species. And even when we find out that there are certain problems that they may be involved in ourselves, we have this kind of respect ratio that is ethically okay, but also in political and political terms about what we owe here, of course, that's not right. Of course, we can also look for reasons in the fact that the professorial category is one of the most strategic and influential in this society. We all have some nephew, some cousin of the young, some daughter, some son who depends on some great professor, from grades to a recommendation for promotional promotion, for calling, for laying a master's degree, doctorate, etc. So it's about very complex interests that intertwine so invisiblely. That is why the area of education deserves and requires us to open our eyes more and to face these problems more courageously. Because the fact is, we are declaringly praising our education, and the most successful people in this country, including many politicians, are sending their children abroad for education. Then why send it where it's better if this is our best? Performing the position of the chairman of the Education Committee, as well as the fact that in society many have recognized me as someone who wants to tell the truth, even if it is bitter, many people appear to me, especially many talented children. So, young men and girls candidates for various functions and positions of assistants who don't have, as they say strong backs, who aren't dad's and mom's children, have a hard chance. Because for the positions of the assistants, for the positions of the doctorate, the positions of the docent are mostly needed by the so-called so-called so-called. The back, or those places, are mostly already reserved for certain mom and dad's kids. So a lack of quality valorisation, i.e. poor valorisation of quality and affirmation on various grounds, and not based on quality, is something that threatens to choke, or endanger our education at all levels. If you add a variety of psychological moments to that where it is much easier for different professors who have gotten hold of those positions to delay the affirmation of young assistants and docents so they don't endanger them, waiting for them to do so in front of the pension itself, and then decide to recruit their assistants out of the order of average, not supertalented, to actually stay remembered as great teachers, and actually because compared to that assistant who came from the average, they stay large. This endangers the quality of the teaching frame of future generations. On the other hand, education, especially after we entered some form of competition in the field of higher education, after we have the obligation to accredit the university, also concentrates very serious interest. That's why we need to not allow our higher education to be inaccessible to control, because unfortunately we are the category or principle of autonomy of the university, which we have discussed several times in the past term and on the Committee of Education, the benefits, you know, we are the state university, but the law guarantees us the autonomy of the university, so don't interfere with us. It's the only thing that's required to mix the country up when money is to be paid. Very often you will find the only relationship between certain higher education or university institutions and the state, or government as their founder, very often you will find the only link between taking money from the budget. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are next to the fact that before we are the most representative and legislative body, as many times as I recall the most supervised body of this country, every budgetary user in this country is the subject and subject of the supervision of the National Assembly. There can be no beneficiary of the budget, even if it is any university or higher education institution or academy, it cannot be excluded from that supervision. Not only in the way the funds are spent, but also in terms of the legality of their overall behaviour. There is an abuse of another fact that appears through the accreditation process. Among other things, one of the principles of this accreditation is that it is actually the profession that decides in the professional aspect of the accreditation of a higher education institution. Now, like with that syndrome or the phenomenon with the judges, you know when the profession decides on the profession, it basically looks great because it's the most professional people, but we forget that these most professional people are employees of some universities and higher education institutions. It actually means that they're part of some interest, because if you're a professor of one university, you certainly have an interesting relationship with your university, which means you have an interest in stifling the competition. If you are in a position to decide on the accreditation of a university that is your competition, you will certainly be tempted or challenging to behave ethically and professionally correctly or not, or you will abuse your position and yet act either to make a decision or to give your voice in the same way as yourself and your university, not according to the principle of ethics and profession. On the other hand, we have one very thin thread between the stalemate interest of the professor's profession and the interest of education expertise, knowledge, etc. These universal values. That thread is very thin between those two categories and you often have a certain attitude that hides between the so-called. the idea – the profession says, in fact, we can often translate it into language – the group says, the interest says, because they are people, they have their own interests and very often act trade unionally. Stock should protect the union, not the waist. These terms, unfortunately, are not clear enough. When all of this is considered we actually have a sector of education of special higher education, if I'm not going to say it as dark or black, but certainly gray. It requires, of course, that if we want to heal our education system, it requires a different approach, and the only one who can run those processes is the highest legislative supervisory body called the National Assembly. Soon, as I hear we have new proposals to change the Law on Higher Education, so this is just the opening remarks, and only real discussions come then. Not to mention the experience of corruption at the bar. The state-run University of Novi Pazar, which is deliberately called state-owned, to hide the fact that it is the most private university in this country, run by one family, a small group of people who behave more privately than any university in this country. Corruption relations, oligarchical, family, nepotism, obtaining calling with the help of some other surrounding universities, including some in Vrnja Banja, etc., are so great. I don't want to judge about it here, but, please, I'm challenging all inspection services, let them check. What I'm saying is very mildly said, what you'll find there. Not to mention that millions were spent on a dorm that was supposedly built and never worked. So we're not talking about lost needles, we're talking about dorms, students. In ten minutes, it can be checked whether this dorm does exist or works. The building was nickel, we all looked at it. Ministers came from earlier governments, promoted, held meetings, etc. So, it's about corruption that confuses the education system and that eventually shames the country itself. Not to mention the fact that in the New Market, persons without qualifications decide who will be the director, who will be the professor, who will be the employee, etc. It's direct attacks, not on education, but on future generations, and it's kind of killing youth, or killing future generations. Since we had statements and counterpart Miletic talked about elections in Kosovo, we MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party follow these elections closely, primarily because of the Bosniak national community which is very numerous there, which unfortunately does not come out, such as the Serb List, uniquely, but is coming out in several columns. We are very interested that Bosniaks preserve their identity in Kosovo, preserve their rights, solve their problems. Our party, the Justice and Reconciliation Party has best co-operated with the New Democratic Party of Emilia Rexhepi so far, but we are also interested in other Bosniak parties and lists performing quality to ensure that Bosniaks in Kosovo are as high-quality as possible. Don't be surprised that we at the Justice and Reconciliation Club and the United Peasants Party actually have this memorial. That's what we agreed. We're actually a pilot of a reconciliation project. Together with counterpart Miletic, we agreed that we had full freedom on ethnic issues, on cultural issues, that everyone would say what they thought. It is actually an indication that it is possible to have a club, to have one political group that heritage of its own uniqueities multiethnicly and in every respect. We think that this is the future and that there will be more of those groups in the future that will be able to inherit their own differences. I look forward to it, and I'm proud of it, and we will continue to promote true and universal values just as much as they deserve it. We miss them because we have a lot more in common here than what makes us different. When it is the headquarters of our gathering together, and when it is different right for each of us to be without any fear of being resented, we will inherit, it will be that country, that Serbia as we wish, that homeland with a common roof for all of us. It is in my opinion the future and the vision and my dream and that is why I have made myself available to this National Assembly, to the people who voted me, to the voters, and I believe that this is the right time to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3063	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3064	Thank you. The President-in-Office, vice-president, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, the Assembly Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has tabled a proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 64(1). The law on higher education, as well as the provisions of Article 2(1) of point 3 of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. Just for a little while. In the context of authentic interpretation as a form of interpretation of legal norms, it occurs when, in practice, law enforcement is difficult or for some reason, there is a misunderstanding regarding its interpretation. Very often it can be heard in the legal theory that resorting to authentic interpretation of the provisions of the law is actually not good. I couldn't agree more. On the contrary, if, when applying certain legal rules, or norms, there are doubts or unequal application of the right, it is significantly more relevant to resort to one such authentic interpretation, that is to say, to clarify the very concepts of the provision in question, than to leave a legal void which can be disputed to that extent to even question the application of an entire law. It is therefore necessary to take the authentic interpretation of the provisions as a form of assistance to those applying the law. Given the importance and importance of interpreting the provisions, they are actually passed in the same legal form as the adoption of the laws themselves, which are being declared by MPs in parliament. In particular, when we talk about Article 64(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on higher education, it states, is that the body of the university's university head of the dean, the academy of vocational studies is the president, high school and higher school of vocational studies director, that this body is chosen by a secret vote from the teachers of a higher education institution for a period of three years, with the possibility of a consecutive election, in particular by stating that it is those persons who are working in relation to indefinite time at a higher education institution and full-time. This provision should be interpreted in such a way that the abovementioned body of employment of the relevant higher education institutions cannot actually be selected from the ranks of teachers who have stopped working at the end of the school year in which they are 65 years old and are then extended to a fixed period of time contract with a higher education institution for a period of up to 70 years. All the other closer conditions, the way of resolution, the jurisdiction is within the competence of the higher education institution itself and are regulated by its statute, so I will not do so. The provisions on the length of the function of the body of the operation and during the previous period were inconclusive and required authentic interpretation, however, not in this connotation, but in fact it was then shown that it might not be in one appropriate and precise way defined. For this reason, in 2015, the Assembly gave an authentic interpretation of the member at the time 54, stating that one person could be in office of the body of operation at the most two mandates during his working life, whether they were connected or separated. As the community of society in high school circles actually demanded that an appropriate interpretation be given, the Ministry of Education tried to give its opinion precisely on this provision, or member of this law. In this regard, it is stated: “The choice of management bodies, i.e. rectors, deans, directors for three years, with the possibility of one consecutive term, should be understood so that the same person can be elected twice in a row, and after the end of the consecutive term that person can be re-elected only after the end of the term of office of another person, but without the possibility of re-election.” Since the Ministry's opinion is not binding, although the ministry has a control function and should actually control how the provisions of the Law are implemented in the domain of what is under its control, it is simply natural to conclude that there is a need to give a clearer clarification of the provisions themselves in 64, and in this context we are discussing the same today. In fact, the authentic interpretation of this provision, in the end, is unequivocally clear that only those who are in a permanent working relationship, i.e. permanent work in a higher education institution, can appear in the capacity of the management body, so that the possible extension of the working relationship after 65 years of life in a contract with a higher education institution does not actually have any influence, or does not create an opportunity to perform the function of the body of the operation. I think that's the essence of an authentic interpretation of this provision. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Laws of the Serbian Parliament also submitted a proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2 paragraph 3 of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, in order to avoid any doubt when it comes to the application of this member of the law itself when determining which public officials are actually referring to, so that in this context, all those obligations that arise by law when you say the word public official, or when you are dealing with such a business which obliges you to do so. According to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, each public official has been elected, appointed or appointed by a public authority, except for persons who are representatives of private capital in the management body of a company which is a public authority. This provision, which we are interpreting today, needs to be interpreted in such a way as to refer and apply to those persons directly elected by citizens, then persons elected, appointed or appointed by the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Supreme Cassation Court, the High Council of the judiciary, State Greater Prosecutors, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, the Government of the Autonomous District and the bodies of the local self-government units. Why is it important to specify the concept of public officials? You know, at a time when public officials and public functions are spoken of and more than ever, at a time when a series of laws require the obligation to obtain a number of information not only about the property, but also about many other information about those performing a public function, i.e. fall within the category of public officials, I think that the clear interpretation of this concept is more than necessary, and for that reason I think that the authentic interpretation of such a provision is actually the right move that should be done at the moment. In 2020, the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown a clear political will and unequivocal commitment in the fight against corruption, and I am sure that it will continue in this year, so over the previous years, a set of anti-corruption laws has been adopted and they represent one fantastic legal mosaic in terms of anti-corruption not only preventive but repressive action in all those cases where there is a need for protection not only of citizens but also of public interest in terms of all that information to be possessed about public officials. In that regard, I would mention the Law establishing the origin of the property and the special tax which entered into force in March 2020 with a delayed condition of application, i.e. one which will begin with its application in March this year. In every sense, the legal framework when we talk about anti-corruption activity is actually on one satisfactory level, and these are also verified by the professional bodies of the European Union. We, like the country in a previous period, have more than ever strengthened not only our repressive mechanism in terms of corruption, but also preventive action and all of this has contributed to the fact that Serbia has been no longer on the list since 2019. globally unsatisfactory countries when it comes to fighting corruption, according to a report on compliance with GRECO recommendations, or recommendations from the Council of Europe's Working Body on the fight against corruption, adopted at the meeting of the body in late March 2019. The last, or second report on compliance with the said GRECO recommendations, was published on November 26th, and it actually shows concrete steps, i.e. progress in comparison with the report previously submitted, and I think it shows that Serbia is on a good path when it comes to the harmonisation and respect of all those recommendations made by the relevant European institutions as a commitment. In 2019, a new Anti-Corruption Prevention Act was adopted, which was also in line with those recommendations, and it replaced the previous Anti-Corruption Agency Act and it represents a base, i.e. a basic roof anti-corruption law, and it entered into force on 1 September 2020, and it is no doubt that it will provide not only protection of public interest but also a reduction of the risk of corruption wherever it appears in some visible form. The system established under the Law on Organisation and the jurisdiction of the state authorities in countering organised crime, terrorism and corruption, which began on 1 March, no doubt yields results, so that in a comprehensive analysis we can say that Serbia really has a good set of anti-corruption laws, it is only to apply them as it writes, that is to say, to allow them to live in practice to have their own effect. On the basis of all of the above, it can be expected that the Anti-Corruption Agency will also be able to control the truthfulness of the reporting of assets when it comes to officials and not only that, it will also be able to carry out appropriate analyses in terms of the risk of corruption and to act preventively, so that there are no repressive measures to be applied later. You will agree with me that to adopt good rules is not just necessary if we have adequate legal knowledge, i.e. knowledge from legal technical methodology, and I would try to link this authentic interpretation of the provisions to the interpretation of the right. I mean not only the interpretation of national legislation, but also the interpretation of communal law, i.e. European Union law. The European Union is very clear in this context. In the most direct and most demanding way in all stages of the involvement of non-EU countries, it requires them to fully comply with the terminology, i.e. with European Union law, and there is no doubt that the European Union's request is both explicit and explicit. This practically means that when the European Union checks Serbia's conditions on justice and in general the right to take care of how terms have been used, how the terms and phrases have been used and all of this can be of great importance, and only a clarification of the specific provisions of the laws we are talking about today can actually be treated as a view of a good approach to the very interpretation of our right, i.e. the right of the European Union and the alignment with it. In this context, in the context of the translation segment we have so-called Euro as a special base of terms that have just been created by the translation of the terms of legal fluids of the European Union and that is one base which in one comprehensive way implies all those terms, expressions and all those terms that exist in the communal law, which we may not have in our legal system, but we need to adapt it by making clear and precise expressions in the adoption of the law. The very authentic interpretation that we are doing in this way, which is inconceivable, should be seen as a form of our country's commitment to join the European Union as soon as possible and in this context meet all the challenges that lie ahead of it. Finally, as the life of citizens as well as the fight against corruption and crime is one of the priority principles of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, voting for the adoption of authentic provisions of this law, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia is actually implementing what it has promised to advocate. In this regard, I announce that our parliamentary group will support the proposals of these authentic interpretations in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3065	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the Single Serbia Group, Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3066	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today on the agenda we have two proposals for authentic interpretation, two members in two different laws. In particular, we have a proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 64(1). The Law on Higher Education and we have a proposal for authentic interpretation of Article 2 paragraph 1 point 3 of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. As regards Article 64(1), The law on higher education, its essence is in fact that this member defines who can be elected for the body of higher education institutions, i.e. who can be elected head of university, university dean, academy president or director of a higher education institution. Today, we are considering whether professors who have met the conditions for retirement, who have completed 65 years of life and a minimum of 15 years of employment, who are under Article 93. The law on higher education extended work at the university for the purpose of college or higher school, i.e. higher education institutions, whether they can be elected for the body of employment. Clearly, Article 64. The law on higher education says that an organ of employment can be chosen by one who is in a working relationship in a higher education institution with full-time and indefinitely. These people have been chosen for a certain time, or for two years with the possibility of reelection, and they do not fall under this category. However, the issue of the management of higher education institutions is closely related to the quality of our higher education and the quality of our higher education institutions is often the subject of polemics in the public. The polemics, like any polemic, have opposing attitudes and the most common attitudes that are prone to generalisation, generalisation and above all are driven by a greater desire to gain some political point or public attention than is really wanted to achieve critical and objective analyses. No education system in the world is ideal, especially in today's world when the speed that changes and accumulates knowledge and speeds that develops technology requires the education system to be very dynamic. I've already said here many times that the education system must not be a mere follower of these processes and of the rapid changes in the world, but must be their momentum right now. Education simply needs to predict the direction and speed of scientific and technological development and the accumulation of knowledge several years ahead, because education is a process that takes place and a young man who today begins with education from this educational process as a final product will only come out in a decade or a half. I'm gonna fix myself right now. Once a student or student from the education system came out as a final product. At times, a student with his acquired knowledge could respond with minor changes and improvements to work requirements throughout his entire working life. Today, when this level of knowledge is doubled every 18 months, therefore, the sustainability of knowledge is shorter and the use of knowledge is measured for years and months, and is even faster. Today, students and students should leave school and college, so to speak, as half a product because knowledge and technology are changing so quickly that lifelong learning is an imperative of today. Today's graduates of college and high schools were born in 1998, 1999. Then there was neither Facebook, nor YouTube, then to download one megabyte of data took you forever, today only a fraction of a second. As I've already said, knowledge is increasing exponentially today, and it's getting even faster. The Rabindranat Tagora said in the first half of the 20th century – do not limit children just to what you have learned, because children were born in the second time. This truth from the beginning, in the first half of the 20th century, has never gained more meaning than it does today. The education system and its factors, such as teachers, must very quickly adapt to the challenges of new, coming times and new generations of students who and how they follow these trends. Therefore, lifelong learning, constantly adapting to the demands of time, businesses, human needs, is a strong challenge for formal education. In the world today, more and more individuals are turning around, so-called. informal education, because formal education is seen as a brake in its professional development. Of course, I am not someone who will certainly put informally ahead of formal education, because informal education has, if not more, at least one major flaw, which is that it is not systematic, but teachers today must no longer be lecturers, but they must encourage and direct students to study and the centre of this lifelong learning must be, as I would say, a priority. Plutarch said a long time ago: "The mind is not a court to be filled, but is a fire to be lit." It must be a guideline for every successful and good professor, for every successful and good university or university. Where's our higher education today? What's his quality? I have already noted that this is being debated and that this debate is often prone to generalisation and generalisation. Our higher education has very good sides that put it at the very top, but also the shortcomings that we need to address in the next period. In that sense, I see the initiative to amend the existing Law on Higher Education. Our universities must be more open to the needs of the economy, they must turn more towards learning skills, not just places to accumulate theoretical knowledge. The introduction of a dual system into higher education will significantly help raise the reputation of high school institutions. Our universities and colleges must be more open to the outside, more open to suggestions, suggestions. More ready to hear the needs of businesses, societies, states, to be open to criticism from the public. In fact, university independence must be understood as freedom in creativity, freedom in research, freedom in the creation of scientific personnel and new scientific achievements. But the freedom of the university must by no means be understood as a shield or as a law behind which inertness, indulgence, self-satisfaction, or God forbid, as an opportunity for a good business. In the higher education system, we have great examples of human beings being kidnapped by all countries of the world, and such institutions must be best supported as well as protected from the outflows of quality scientific personnel in which the state has invested very much through the process of their education. To prevent the most professional personnel from going to other countries, there must be a system that will attract these people to give their maximum here, our economy, our science, our society, our country. Of course, we have some bad examples, and we need to focus on improving the system of higher education above all on improving the process of self-valuation, external evaluation and in the process of accreditation of higher education institutions as they will do everything possible to raise the quality of all our higher education institutions. In that sense, I also see this interpretation of article 64. The Law on Higher Education as an opportunity for young, quality staff who are open to the challenges that they face today. As regards the authentic interpretation of Article 2(1), point 3. The law on the prevention of corruption, this interpretation refers to persons subject to the provision of public officials. Namely, this provision should be understood by referring and applying to persons directly elected by the people, by standing up to the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Parliament of the AP, the Government of the AP and those relevant judicial authorities not to list them, who give and propose public officials. This provision of the law is clear and this interpretation is quite clear and we from the JS have supported the Law on the Prevention of Corruption because it is the cornerstone of the policy of the JS that public funds are more focused on citizens and that transparency of the use of public funds must be maximum and subject to control. In this sense, the JS parliamentary group will today, at the time of the vote, support both of these proposals for authentic interpretations of these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3067	Thank you, colleague Starčević. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Dubravka Kralj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3068	I thank the esteemed chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I pointed out in my previous presentation that our country, our police and our judiciary should remove from our society all criminals, drug dealers, clans and that I do not list all other viruses as the vaccine does. In previous days, they have shown that this is possible and that our country has the power to make such accounts. Therefore, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to join you on the congratulations sent yesterday by the National Assembly President, Ivica Dacic, on the arrests that have been carried out and to express my faith that these actions will continue, because unfortunately, I doubt that Velija is the only trouble on our streets. To return to what today's session is about, which as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, I have already had the opportunity to plead. Mr. Fila and I voted on the Committee in favour of the proposed authentic interpretations, which I will do in the voting day, for the reason that the question of who can be at the head of a higher education institution, or who can predicate as vice-president of the university, dean of the university, president of the academy, or director of a higher school, is important, and there must be no misunderstanding in answering this question, nor should we as a National Assembly allow the same norm to be applied differently and thus teachers in different universities to be in an unequal position. The question that has arisen as disputed is whether teachers who have turned 65 and obtained a condition for retirement, but their status has been extended for a certain period of time? The proposed interpretations are given a negative answer, which completely coincides with my personal understanding of the provision of the Law on Higher Education, for the reasons that the professors I mentioned do not meet the conditions regarding the need for a working relationship that would be based on indefinite time. It is extremely important for me to understand that taking this attitude is only in the context of the need for the law to be consistently applied in the way its provisions are read, and not by any chance in the way that it would mean reducing the importance and importance that these professors have for the academic community, because I consider their presence in colleges to be very important, significant and useful, both for the teaching collective and for the students. So I think the possibility of their working relationship being extended after sixty-five years and up to seventy years is important, and it represents no concession to them, but they make concessions to colleges, students and their colleagues, because their knowledge that they have acquired valuablely for decades is a privilege for students to learn from such professors. On the other hand, I am sure that our colleges have other staff who will be able to meet the challenge of managing the most important institution in our society, and perhaps because they have learned from prominent senior colleagues, who have circled their careers and believe that they consider themselves a leading place to be a burden, but have contributed, and are ready to continue to contribute to the quality of higher education in our country, which is extremely important to the SPS, just as much as to make high education available to everyone, by being free of charge. We believe that priorities should be increasing budget positions in colleges, reducing study costs, facilitating the passing of young people, educated people on the labour market, but also that the knowledge and effort that has been put into its acquisitions will be adequately valued and appreciated in our society. It can contribute to each and every one of us by not estimating functions, having titles and titles, but by appreciating knowledge and effort, which behind these titles, calling, function, must stand. Just because of the importance these issues have for the SPS, I am glad that after Professor Zarko Obradovic, who was Minister of Education in the period from 2008 to 2013, and during whose term of office budget financing was introduced, not only basic, but postgraduate studies, which allowed me personally to complete and master studies at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, I am glad that responsibility for education is once again taken over by a socialist, this time Branko Ruzic, because I believe that education issues are the most important issues for Serbia. I am proud that our educated system has managed to respond to the challenges that the Corona virus has brought and what has indeed proved to be a modern, modern system that can mate to the one that exists in European countries. But we always have to bear in mind that, besides the Minister and the Government, that this system, apart from them, is made up of teachers, teachers and teachers, who, after health care professionals, have, I believe, endured the greatest burden of altered circumstances. I therefore hope that, thanks to the vaccination, students will be able to return to their school benches as soon as possible and that regular school will continue to work in a way that will bring joy to both students and teachers, but also parents, who during the previous months were somewhat forced to remind themselves of many school lessons and to bear the burden of schooling their children from home. As I said, the SPS, or our parliamentary group, will support the proposed authentic interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3069	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or representatives, want a word? Yeah. ) For our children, Aleksandar Martinović, president of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3070	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Legislative Group of Alexander Vukic – For our children, it will support in the day to vote both proposals for authentic interpretations because we believe that both and other authentic interpretations remove any doubt about the meaning of the provisions contained in the abovementioned articles of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, or the Law on Higher Education. As for the authentic interpretation of the Anti-Corruption Act in our social practice, the problem has indeed arisen, i.e. the question of who are all public officials. In this place I want to say that this question isn't just normative, and it's not just practical, it's also a scientific question. All those who have graduated or are studying law schools in the Republic of Serbia know that. According to constitutional law, students learn from administrative law who are officials, i.e., who are persons that are understood under the syntagma chosen, appointed, or appointed persons. These are the persons elected, appointed or appointed directly by the citizens, as is the case with us with the President of the Republic, then those who elect, appoint or appoint the National Assembly, then the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the provincial government, the Parliament of the AP, as well as the bodies of the units of local self-government. This is, let's say, one textbook definition of persons who are considered public officials, i.e. the textbook definition of persons who fall under that category of chosen, appointed, or appointed persons. In light of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of the relevant laws, we are in our proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 2. The law on preventing corruption in the category of public officials added those who appoint, appoints, or elects the President of the Republic, then the Supreme Court of Cassation, that is, for example, five judges of the Constitutional Court, then the High Council of the judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors. Why is this important to emphasize? Because we wanted through this authentic interpretation to remove all the concerns that in practice arise about which public authorities, according to the Corruption Prevention Act, come into consideration as those entities who choose, name, or place certain persons on certain public functions. This has been reported in practice as a dispute in certain cases which I will point out. With this authentic interpretation, we remove any suspicion that these are state bodies that name, or who choose, name or appoint public officials. So, let me repeat again -- these are the people directly elected by the citizens, i.e. the public officials appointed, elected or appointed by the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of the Autonomous Province, the provincial government, the bodies of the local self-government units, the Supreme Cassation Court, the High Council of the judiciary and the State Greater Prosecutors. These are practically all state authorities, these are all provincial authorities and these are the relevant bodies of local self-government units. So, this authentic interpretation has removed any doubt that the organs are about. We covered up, so to speak, a republican i.e. The state level, the province level and the local level, and no one will now have any doubt whether someone is or is not a public official because of being appointed by this or that organ. In some cases, public officials are appointed, elected or appointed by state authorities, such as the National Assembly, Government, President of the Republic, etc., in some cases by the assembly or government of an autonomous province, and in some cases the relevant authorities of local self-government units do so. Why is it important to do this? Here, I'm going to give you a concrete example of not turning out to be a purely abstract and theoretical question. In practice, the problem arises whether university professors who are from, as was once said to those old dictionaries, collectives, so, by their colleagues, not by the government, not by the Assembly, not by some state body, but by their colleagues elected to, say, an authority called the university council or council of the university? There was a problem in practice. Why? Because someone at the Anti-Corruption Agency has mechanically interpreted the provision of the Higher Education Act which, as you can see, is related to the interpretation of the Corruption Prevention Act, and says – yeah, he's elected, e, he's a functionary. Now a man comes into a situation, a regular professor of university, absolutely has no intention of being a functioner, has no intention of dealing with politics, because public officials are primarily politicians, so a man has no intention of dealing with politics, is not a member of any party, but because he is elected by his colleagues to the council of college, because of the word "chosen", they say – you are a public official. We have another absurd situation, and Professor Marko Atlagic knows it. The student parliament is elected to the university council or to the university council of students and for the sake of words – elected by the student parliament, they say – e, so he is a public official. Now we have a problem, a serious, practical problem in colleges, that teachers who have been elected from the order of teachers or students selected by the student parliament in the advice of the university or university are defined as public officials, which you will admit is completely illogical and absolutely contrary to both the letter and the spirit of the law. In this place I want to say something that is not popular to say, and it is not popular first of all to say it myself as President of the Legislative Group Alexander Vukic – For our children, but I will say it anyway, so if someone takes it away from me, let them take it. What's this about? We were in the past term, in that term when the people who formally represented themselves as MPs and acted as hooligans, I mean Boško Obradovic, the MPs of Vuk Jeremic, the one Alexic, the ones who wore the stone, the microphones, I mean Balš Bozovic, Zivkovic, Sasa Radulovic, who cursed the MPs, spat on them, physically dealt with them, as with Marijan Rističic here in front of the National Assembly, etc., so, in that mandate, from 2016 to 2020, which was a very difficult mandate for all the MPs and especially for the MPs of the SNS, I do not want to say that these other colleagues from the ruling coalition were easy, but above all were SNS MPs, there was no one very difficult mandate for all of us, and we were stoic, from the religious attacks. We've had it all. I think the Serbian parliament, if we exclude that shooting at the pre-war Assembly of the Kingdom of ShS in 1928, so the Serbian parliament did not see the scenes happening between 2016 and 2020. Why am I saying all this and why might someone take me for harm, but I don't care? In that mandate, SNS MPs, first of all Marijan Risticevic, Marko Atlagic, Aca Markovic, and also my smallness and other colleagues, we were literally showing charts, schemes that, for example, Bosko Obradovic was laundering money from the state for the election campaign and that he was pumping state money out of his party register, which returned afterwards to his private pockets and to the pockets of his party associates, who wanted to participate in it. Some did not want to participate, so they were expelled from the Dvori, some even excluded from the Dveri parliamentary group. So here we were, for example, showing a pattern, but literally a pattern. Marijan Risticevic stood up ten times and showed the scheme that the companies were involved in, which faces, which are the sums of the money. These are millions and millions of money belonging to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which have been formally pumped from the Dvora Movement register, through certain companies for non-existent services and non-existent jobs, through various trades and trades, etc. whose owners were all members, activists, committees, Boška Obradovica's financials. So we literally showed these charts here from session to session and Bosko Obradovic couldn't object to saying a single word, because everything was absolutely true. He could have said for me that I had big ears, that I was a jerk, that I was like this, for Marijan Risticevic that he was at the farm. He could have said all that, but he couldn't say that what was drawn on that chart wasn't true. It was all true. It's all in the dinar. We showed the schematics that Vuk Jeremic was pumping out, namely how he was getting money from various offshore companies, from various embassies. We showed how much state money he spent over every possible measure while he was the minister of foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia, how he traveled through the white world, how he stayed in the most luxurious hotels, how he traveled through the most expensive planes and spent on tens of millions of dollars of state money, and then how he got money through the party, and through one NGO, and through another NGO, then through Lozo, and through this, and through that and through all of us here in the Assembly in the session we showed. Why am I saying this? Because no one from the Agency, at least as far as I know, from the Anti-Corruption Agency, has reacted to that, which is inadmissible. The state can't keep quiet if an MP gives you proof that someone's involved in organized crime. That he's in opposition has nothing to do with it and one of us has to answer for it. The Anti-Corruption Agency, for my entirely unknown reason, simply put its head away. Turns out we're fools here, what are they saying, showing some pictures, charts, we don't care, but what did they do? And I'm really sorry about those people. For some strange reason, the Anti-Corruption Agency, instead of dealing with real corruption in the ranks of Bosko Obradović, Dragan Djilas, who Marijan Risticevic can write a study about how he resells seconds and how illegally works, for example, N1 television as a fake cross-border channel, instead of being dealt with by the Anti-Corruption Agency, began harassing college professors, and those college professors who in 2017 supported Alexander Vukic's candidacy for the President of the Republic and said, "You're a member of the Council of the College, they chose you, because of that word they chose, you're a public official official." He says, "What kind of public official am I?" It's about people who supported Alexander Vukic. I can't understand that auto chauvinism, not as an MP, not as a man. Go deal with Bosko Obradovic, go deal with Vuk Jeremic, go deal with Dragan Gilas, go deal with these yellow ones that stole our black under our fingernails. No, they started dealing with individual university professors in Serbia who had the courage in 2017, and they really needed the courage to publicly support Aleksandar Vukic for the president of the Republic. Why? Because at their colleges they usually turn over people who are absolutely opponents of Alexander Vukic and SNS. The teachers who said, "Wait, this Aleksandar Vukic, I am not a member of his party, I am not a member of any party, but I think that man is doing well for Serbia. People have given their signatures and suddenly, overnight, these people become targets, like they're in corruption, they're in some corrupt relationship, which is totally amazing. We had here, I'm not going to tell him the name, the man is probably still a student and there's no point in dragging him into daily politics, a student who proved that what a professor at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, Danica Popovic, did was a plagiarism. When Marijan Risticevic said that, then it turned out that Marijan Risticevic was a liar. When he said that student who supports Alexander Vukic, then it was said – you are a liar because you support Alexander Vukic. What happened after that? Turns out it's all true and that woman is now a year away from the case, she can't teach it. What do we do now? Does anyone do that? No, I don't. Now we're going to deal with this student. We are now going to deal with this student who had the courage to publicly state what is going on at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade and with some other students because they were appointed by the student parliament to the college councils. I can't understand that. I really can't understand that. It turns out that in a country where the SNS is in charge is harmful and dangerous if you're a member and you support the SNS. It's all right, it doesn't matter if they steal, let them lie, let them broadcast the program from New Belgrade, and we'll all act like they're broadcasting it from Luxembourg, it doesn't matter, but let's see those professors who signed for Alexander Vukic, they're some big corrupters, they're some big thieves. Let's see these students, and they're some big public officials, let's comb them too. Let's stop with one of those two-faced policies. If someone is really in corruption, but really in corruption, then it doesn't matter if he's a member of this party or that party, but don't force people to make corrupters if they're not, and especially not to make corrupters out of people who are honest, who are professors of the university, who in 2017 supported Alexander Vukic's candidacy, and believe me, some of them have passed torture, torture at their colleges because they gave their signature for the candidacy of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. And then someone said -- you're public officials, and because you're a public official, now we're gonna focus all our attention on you. To others, who are also public officials and are actually public officials, these are not, which are members of the Dvori, the People's Party, the party of Dragan Gilas etc., no one has absolutely done anything about it. I'd like to be denied. If something is done, if some procedures are conducted, let's see what stage this procedure is and what form of corruption is established. I'd like to see that. It is inadmissible, and I must say, it has no direct connection with this authentic interpretation, as the chairman of the Administrative Board, I am already getting several requests from the courts who are conducting the proceedings against Marijan Risticevic because of the words he has spoken here in the National Assembly, and where the court, to God, asks me, as if he does not know how to read the Constitution, whether Marijan Risticevic enjoys immunity as a folk MP for the words he has spoken in the National Assembly, and the Constitution says that the MP cannot be prosecuted for the words he has spoken in the National Assembly. Despite all my answers, Marianne, here, you will now have the opportunity to say how many proceedings are being conducted against Marijan Risticevic for the words he has spoken in the National Assembly, in a country in which SNS dictatorship, Alexander Vukic, and where courts, prosecutors, all possible state authorities are under the absolute control of Alexander Vukic, his phallangs, etc. It is such a dictatorship, imagine, that against Marijan Rističević, one of the most prominent of our MPs, he has conducted several procedures for the words spoken by man in the National Assembly, which, by the way, are all true. So there's no offense, there's no lies, absolutely all the facts themselves. Let me just say something, I end up, I don't see well, I'm a little caught up in years, I'm finishing up, as far as the second authentic interpretation is concerned, there's a very clear thing. We're closer, let's say, to determine something in the Higher Education Act, which is that teachers of higher education institutions. regular professors who have an extended working relationship after 65 years of life, and up to 70, they can't be chosen as deans. The rule of law is already quite clear in itself, but in practice there have been some cases where some people felt they had the right to be deans, even though they turned 65 years old, so we considered it appropriate to explain this authentic interpretation. I say once again and by doing so, thank you, Mrs Yevdzic, for having understood this time surplus, I am for fighting corruption, I am for fighting all those who steal this country, regardless of which foreigners belong, but it is impossible for those who steal the state and who steal it to be in the ranks of the professors who supported Alexander Vukic, among students who support Alexander Vukic, among the MPs who support Alexander Vukic, or who are MPs of the party led by Aleksandar Vukic, etc., and that they are there on the other side of the barricade, various Gilas, various Obradiciæi, various Jeremici, etc., some lambs, some of the apostles who have earned everything honestly, nothing there is illegal, everything is clean. A nice man gets 619 million euros, no one asks him anything, no agency, no court. Vuk Jeremic is a little financed as party president, as director of one, and another NGO. He slept in hotels where he didn't sleep either Trump, or Obama, etc. It doesn't matter, but let's see what happened to those who supported Alexander Vukic in 2017. So that such things may no longer happen to us, I ask my colleagues to declare both authentic interpretations.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3071	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. I didn't mean to interrupt your thought. Since there are no more registered presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word is Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3072	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, today there are two before us, we need to adopt two authentic, interpretations of two laws. First Law on the Prevention of Corruption. The MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation, the United Peasants' Party, will vote in favour of these two authentic interpretations as the committee has also proposed. As for the fight against corruption, I want to point out that words have gone into action. We can all see that one of the biggest mob groups in organized crime has been broken these days, and that's where the state summit is to be recognized. Also, what's very important is to continue cleaning inside the system. It is impossible to create a serious criminal group, it is clear to everyone, if they do not have support within the system, especially when it comes to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, when it comes to, among other things, certain doctors, doctors who give justification to criminals, give false confirmations that they are injured, not those to whom they have caused the injury. Among other things, these days, I mentioned that there was an attack on a civil activist in Novi Pazar, Irfan Ugljanin, and when you analyze the documentation of those who attacked that man in broad daylight, you'll see that they got some medical records from some doctors. This is something that needs to be examined and an essential deal with crime and corruption will happen when all these "trouble apples" within the system are processed and imprisoned. As far as education is concerned, it is as strategically important to us as a state, every state, every society, to all citizens and citizens, what is particularly important to us is that all citizens and citizens have the right to education, not only to be the privilege of the rich, not to be only the privilege of the fathers and moms, that all our children have the same chance, and that's what I mean to all the MPs here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but the goal and those citizens who choose us in the elections. We care about good roads, we care about sewers, we care about lighting, we care about social product, but we care about education, what our children learn in schools. If we analyze the world economy, we will realize that Switzerland or Japan have much less natural resources than some African countries. They don't have any diamonds that Zair may have, but their standards that have citizens are far higher. Why? Because of human resources. So if we have generations that have received adequate education, if we have generations that have received education that can be applied in life, we will also have economic growth. We're free of all natural resources if our children get an education they can't, which isn't functional or if they absolutely don't get an adequate education. It is very important that we have this exchangeability when it comes to especially higher education. I can't, as we say very often in politics that the departments of function of the municipality can't be anyone's feuds, it's very important that the universities, that the cathedrals be no one's feuds, but that we have one healthy competition that young people, young teachers, doctors, doctors, docents, can make rapid progress without being a narrow interest group who has captured a department and caste that determines who and how they can progress. It is particularly important and will intertwine here education and the fight against corruption, so it is impossible and unacceptable absolutely from the position of the law that we have accreditation bodies in which people who are directly involved in conflict of interest are sitting. I can't as a worker as a member as an employee of a certain university decide on conditions, whether or not they meet another competitive university. It's very important to have one fundamental debate and to have one complete cleanup of the situation. So if you want to be part of an accreditation body, if you want to be an independent organ, you have to get out of something called belonging to any university. In voting day, we will support both of these interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3073	I thank the People's MP Samir Tandira. The word is a folk letter from Nina Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3074	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are now on the agenda for two authentic interpretations. The first proposal refers to the Anti-Corruption Act and the second to the Higher Education Act. I will refer to the first proposal for authentic interpretation proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to the National Assembly. It is an authentic interpretation of Article 2 paragraph 1 point 3. The Anti-Corruption Act. I believe that authentic interpretation at this point is the most impeccable legal form that can remove different interpretations, and thus the different application of this member of the law. Another way would be to propose amending and supplementing the law, and a third request to the competent ministry to give an opinion on the application of this member of the law. The authentic interpretation is the fastest way to remove the problem of different interpretations. Since the Law on the Prevention of Corruption was adopted in December 2019, so only a year ago, and we believe that it is not celery to change it in such a short time. It is true that the provision of Article 2(1), point 3, which reads – The public official is each elected, appointed or designated person in the public authority, except those who are representatives of private capital in the management body of the company, which is the public authority. This can be interpreted differently, and then according to different interpretations, there is a possibility of different application of the law, which would cause inequality before the law. The proposal for authentic interpretation, with a correction, which was delivered yesterday, specifies this provision, or defines more precisely what persons are considered public officials. This authentic interpretation says that the above provision should be interpreted by referring and applying to all persons directly elected by citizens and persons elected, appointed or the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province Assembly, the Government of the Autonomous Province, the bodies of the local self-government unit, the Supreme Cassation Court, the High Council of the judiciary and the State Greater Prosecutors. This authentic interpretation provides the accuracy of the provision. In addition, the coverage of public officials is more complete and it is easier to look at exactly what is being done by the officials. In that sense, I believe that this authentic interpretation should be adopted and the SPS parliamentary group will support this proposal for authentic interpretation in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3075	I thank the MP Nina Pavicevic. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3076	I thank the chairman. Since today we are considering this authentic interpretation and correction that we received yesterday is a handsome opportunity and, in any case, an important topic that we are discussing today and all of what is happening these days in terms of fighting corruption, which is the MUP together with the BIA and the particular department of prosecutors dealing with precisely organised crime, is being touched practically and all of what we have done in earlier times has been normised, which is also through these authentic interpretations in terms of the width of all public officials, which includes this law, and the laws that will reach into force in the fight against organised crime and corruption that exists in all the world of society, not only public officials, but also all related persons that are related to these public officials and where we will be able to see finally and enter into the fight against organised crime and corruption that exists in all the pores of society. As we listened to yesterday in the opening statement of Minister Vulin it is clear that the state of Serbia, the MUP has decided to enter into a uncompromising fight and that the National Assembly, as one of the most important institutions, as a legislative body, monitors practically everything that is necessary in terms of logistics and normative and each other to support the institutions of prosecution and all other representatives who help law enforcement institutions to bring in perpetrators and all those who assist them, who are complicit in carrying out these crimes and who are in responsible public functions. I would use this exposure in that direction right now to focus on all of what we have these days and on the means of public information. By reading only today's press, you can see that the expectations of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are enormous in terms of fighting crime and corruption, which is because of the arrest of this organized, mobic, brutal Belivuk, or what he calls himself, who apparently had influence on different sides, and as we can see today, a front page says that a certain judge, I'm not naming him here now, not to force anyone to get Velju Nevoli out of jail. To me, this is an excellent introduction to dispute in terms of responsibility as in the state of Serbia can do in the sense that in the finale of stories we have processed criminals, mobsters and that they end up behind bars. I wouldn't talk much about it, but we have to factor out exactly what's important right now in terms of politics that comes through our elected representatives, through the MUP, through our minister Vulin, and now we're going to find out exactly what's important in terms of what's coming through our elected representatives, through our minister Vulin, and we're going to say that all the speculations that have been going on, as well as this discussion that we had yesterday, so as you can see, this concept of anti-vaxer has fallen. So, we have the best vaccination in Serbia in the region, we're at the top of the world. The concept of anti-migrant policies falls in the sense that they will settle here in Serbia, and so many different stories have been built on, conspiracy theory that it simply rebuked every video on certain social networks, in printed media, etc. In particular, opposition representatives used it, apparently having nothing to offer, speculate, frighten Serbian citizens, as they feared Serbian citizens with different stories that were pure fiction, slanders, for which they were responsible, that representatives of the authorities in Serbia had ties to the acquittal criminal groups. Just what's happening confirms that everything they've been saying is a lie. If we talk about the readiness we have, it is confirmed in the institutional functioning of all institutions that can do something in this direction. What can the M.O.P. do? It could mean, in co-operation with the prosecution, with the BIA, that, over a long period of time, he observes certain criminal groups and whenever he prepares to file reports in a procedural sense on the criminal activity of a particular criminal group or individual. And where does it travel then? He travels to the prosecutor who analyzes all of this, sees whether there are elements in this kind of story to take orders to conduct an investigation, and that order to conduct an investigation has its own time frames that are limited, thank God, by law. That's much better than in the region. I spent a long time in BiH. There's no time limit for the prosecutor to suspend the investigation or press charges and she's going to the judge for the previous trial and then we get to justice. We came to the D.A.'s office, but we're also coming to the judge for a previous trial that's going to take care of it all, confirm that indictment, and then send her to trial. The trial is ongoing, evidence is being carried out, etc. Now let's dispute everyone's role in the state of Serbia in terms of fighting crime and corruption. Have we on the side of politics defined ourselves and announced in terms of the government's election that we will fight hard crime and corruption and the mafia? Did we do that? Did we organize all the structures in that direction to break down a serious criminal group like this? As you can see today, this action continues. It continues in the region, now in BiH, where are members of certain mafia groups imported here in Serbia, above all I think of these two Montenegrin clans and apparently the core of this fight against the mafia and corruption in the region right here in Belgrade, with the political support of SNS and Aleksandr Vukic, Minister Vulin and all those working in security structures? Now, gentlemen, dear, we are coming to justice. We'll see how the D.A. behaves first. All these spoils that go in this direction these days, you know as: they are brought in, they will be freed. Is the responsibility of this National Assembly, any political parties, including my SNS and the delegated representatives of the executive institutions, the executive authorities, above all in the MUP, which we MPs have given support here, to decide how the judiciary will decide or are these precisely these criminal links which have their own tentacles in the judiciary in the possibility that even through certain daily papers in the press, such projections may be possible? How is it possible that someone already knows? Is there any possibility that a judge for a previous trial will systematically prepare a indictment, which we all know is certain to be true, to bring it down or to trial for such a thing to happen and what is the responsibility of politics, the MUP to do anything in that sense, more than what it is currently doing? It is only in this direction that certain criminal charges against not the judiciary may begin to be filed, but individuals in the judiciary called judges, who are called prosecutors, who have their own property records, who have enormous wealth and who serve as a bond and connections with these criminal groups. Will someone charge us then if we go into the process to file criminal charges against people who work in the judiciary in responsible places? Is it also the job of the state to process those who work in the judiciary, not only those who are subject to judicial research or trial? Therefore, to conclude this debate in two sentences and to say what is important, that in this aspect of this particular criminal act we have done everything and we will continue to do what is possible in terms of legislative activities and competences that the institutions of the Republic of Serbia have. We don't want to affect the judiciary, nor can we influence it. On the other hand, here safely from the National Assembly through parliamentary issues, through the work of other institutions to monitor what the judiciary will now do in Serbia. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3077	I thank the People's MP. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3078	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. You know, in life, a name or a name is a very important thing. My party's name is Unity Serbia and it was one of the motives why I joined the party's work. The law we're discussing today is the Anti-Corruption Act. It would simply be illogical if anyone didn't support anything regarding this law, and it goes in favour of the citizens. Of course, the name of my party, Unique Serbia, is not the only thing I liked when I joined her, but the program that this party is dealing with. Also, this Anti-Corruption Act has a essence that should interfere with each and every one of us to vote for this law. My party is a state-of-the-art party and will certainly support this authentic interpretation. A sufficient privilege for anyone who deals with politics, as one of his colleagues today said that this is primarily a law relating to politicians, is that it is his very function of privilege. The rights, which are acquired by this privilege are not small, even for my concept and great. And then, if beyond that, the political person is not satisfied, but is looking for additionally simple sources of funding, which are in line with the trust that the people gave him, he must be held accountable. We as peoples MPs have been chosen by the people and that is a great thing and we have been given the right of that same people to choose other functions and some other empowered and responsible persons. That is why we must do this very responsibly and never abuse the trust that the citizens have given us. The main and responsible for the implementation of this Anti-Corruption Act are certainly people working at the Anti-Corruption Agency. We have to be honest and fair to say that their work isn't easy at all. The powers they have are great, but the number of officials they treat is not small, and what's a living thing is that it's constantly changing. What citizens should know in some way, and these are the basic rules of public function. The public official is obliged not to subdue the public interest to private interests, to comply with the rules governing his rights and obligations and to create and maintain the confidence of citizens in the safe and responsible exercise of public office. A public official shall not be dependent on a person who may influence his impartiality or use a public function for the sake of obtaining any benefit or convenience for himself or a connected person. One more thing, a public official is forbidden to use for the benefit or benefit of himself or another or to harm other information that comes to the public function if not available to the public. This is what every citizen of Serbia needs to know and that is why they understand how important this law is. What other citizens need to know, and that is that there is one member in criminal provisions, that is, a member of 101 who says – a public official who, contrary to the provisions of this law, does not report property to the Agency or gives false property information, in order to conceal property data, will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. So, this is serious stuff. The Agency's work is very responsible and serious, and I therefore call on all colleagues involved in politics, in public life, to abide by all these rules. Also, very important, the Anti-Corruption Act is certainly not in a position to bring everything in order. What we almost had here on the agenda, it's the rule of conduct of the MPs, the Code of Conduct, and it's very important one thing that no code of rude man can make a man raised or vice versa. It's the same when it comes to the law. The law must exist, we all have to try to enforce such laws, but it's not up to the law, there's something up to us. One example of the privileges that public workers have, primarily by policy, is a good example, and the example is Dragan Markovic Palma, who, as most active politicians, has the right to use an official car, he does not use it. His privilege is as well as the privilege of the majority that he can use the teams, he doesn't use them. His privilege is like most that he can use the official phone, he doesn't use it. It should be one message to all of us and go back to that beginning, just because the citizens gave us confidence to be their exhibits, that should be the maximum of some of our privileges. Everything else needs to be denials, so that the state can work easier and cheaper. When I Googled what citizens think about the Anti-Corruption Act and what interests them most, that's the next thing. The most common question is whether there is an obligation to restore the property benefit that the functioner has acquired by performing a public function. Secondly, one of the officials is not obliged to submit to the Agency a report on property and incomes and whether officials for violations of the law will be liable for criminal or criminality. I've already given answers to some of these questions and in my presentation. When it comes to authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 64, as regards the Law on Higher Education, the position of the JS parliamentary group is, of course, that we will also support this interpretation in the original form as it came before us. I have to say that this is a topic where I don't give myself the right to talk much, because today, on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, the deputy head of the parliamentary group of my colleague Life Starcevic and as a professor and as head of Education for the Pomorava County, he made concrete explanations and I believe that everyone who wasn't clear about what we were talking about could understand it, but now as someone who deals with politics, I can only notice one thing. It's not our biggest problem, it's easy for us to fix every law here, it's easy to bring a new one. Our biggest problem is that unfortunately in Serbia fewer children are born. Right, that's a question that concerns the region, but we need to focus first and foremost on our population. That's our job. The truth is that the state has been serious about helping and investing to slow down the fight against the white plague and try to turn it to our advantage somehow. I want to appeal and to commend all the local self-governments that have fought with the help of the state and with the help of some of their own personal abilities and local laws and regulations that have brought more children to birth with them. It is therefore necessary to insist on the same self-government and the same individuals who have found a way to help citizens. I repeat once again, the JS parliamentary group will support both authentic interpretations and all laws that were on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3079	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3080	Dear colleagues and colleagues should always bear in mind the fact that Serbia is a country of decent, brave, smart and honest people and that it owes no one anything. And we don't have to look at others, we have to look at ourselves and sort out within our own backyard. Everything Serbia has created our ancestors in their sweat and blood and left this generation to pass on to future generations and to protect this country to Serbia. In order to preserve it, we must lead, agree with many colleagues who have said this, we must primarily take care of education, but also about health, culture and the protection of the human environment, because all of this now I fear that we have inherited from some previous generations and that we are not trying to preserve it enough. I was willing today to speak only of this law regarding teachers who end their working lives, so it lasts for two years, but since I see my colleagues talking about everything, I'm going to try the part that was so interesting to me to say something about him. In the end, I'm going to tell you about this second part. I couldn't agree more, as everyone agrees that fighting corruption is very important, and what we're doing right now is about that crew that's been arrested for every commendation. There's no story. There's something, let's say it's not exactly what it's supposed to be. They tell me Ritopek is one place, not to say the village, there was a village, now it's already a place on the way to Smederev in the Gročan municipality, it's also on the coast of Danube, pitoma, nice, people are cute. I've been to Ritopek very often. Now these days, when everything that's happened and what's going on in Ritopek happens, they tell me, Professor, don't let us stay remembered for this trouble, but let's see if you can push there to fix something for us to get water. Ritopek has been out of water for 40 years. I totally agree with them that they shouldn't be remembered as someone who's had that accident or that this man happened to buy a cottage there, land, I don't know what, and that he's doing something that's not allowed. That's why I think we can't let Ritopek be remembered only by the Great Trouble and his team, but to meet them and help them, as others should be helped, not just for Ritopek. We promised the Borchi sewer. And that's where we're supposed to be. Why am I saying that now, as part of what's about corruption? If we reduce corruption, we will be left with more resources so that we can build a sewerage in Borca and a water pipeline in Ritopek, a garbage burner in Vinci that started, it didn't start, etc. What I mean. Are we up to the time and challenges ahead? Or we kind of hid, so let's just do what I don't care, I don't want to get involved, I won't say anything. No, I don't. We must fight with all our strength, but fight with the power of argument, not with the arguments of force. We must not allow ourselves these major quarrels between us, because that is what destroys us, which destroys Serbia, too, destroys the future. Here, I'm listening to a fellow Martinovic who is a university professor, lawyer, etc. I'm entitled to have nothing to do with it, and I've never been involved, I don't like to talk about things I don't know. What's got me a little confused in his discussion now? As I understand it, the members of the college council are people who have been chosen in two ways. In one way, the government appoints half, I think, and the other part chooses the collective public declaration. Is there now a difference between those appointed by the government, as I understand it, they are like officials and those chosen by the collective? I don't think it's right, the law can't make a difference between people. We have an example that was very difficult for me. Recently, the verdict was given to a high military official, the highest of the time, which was – three years of house arrest or something. Watch out for treason, for spying. I remember when we were little we sang that former anthem where he said, "he was a damned traitor of his country." So is it possible that someone for some burglary or some stupidity could get more punishment than treason? These are the things we need to get in line. In order to bring this into order, the legal system has to be at our level. The judge can't ask Martinovic, it doesn't matter his name, not to ask the chairman of the Administrative Board, whether his colleague Risticevic has immunity, etc. If you don't know who you're protecting, and if you don't know, you don't know the Constitution, so give back that degree of yours, don't embarrass yourself and don't do what you're not capable of and what's not a job. We always like to share it, let's say we can do it anyway, we can do it anyway. Now you gentlemen lawyers everywhere. You've got a nice wedding. There's no area of our life where they're not lawyers. That's how it should be because they need to help laws be passed, they need to interpret those laws, they need to apply them, but there's Justicia, your goddess of justice who has that scale, the terrorism. Nice, since you've got a cantar, put it on one side and the other side of the sauce and there can't be any difference. You have to be exactly the same, just to each other and to each other. Why do I say that? That's what I'm gonna say at the end when I'm talking about interpreting the Education Act. That was very important to me. So, you have to be prepared to judge what the folk says - not by the grandmother, not by the uncles. In order for you to do this properly, you have to be prepared to judge yourself, and the hardest thing to do is to judge yourself. That's why we need to be very careful when we make some decisions, but we also have to apply them and try to make it all work – not by the grandmother or by the uncles. Now, in order for me not to take a lot of time, there are still reported, to say about this law, or interpreting this provision -- the continuation of the professor's work after 65 to, I don't know, two years and two more years. You're saying in that decision of yours that such a professor can't compete for a director, a dean, etc. Let's just say, I disagree here, or I don't agree, you, I was denied the fact that a short time ago he was elected to the director of radio television by a man who turned 65, retired, he's not in a permanent working relationship. Does the same law now apply to education, to culture, to television? I think it has to be the same criterion. I'm not someone who claims to be a dean or a headmaster of some high school, but why would a TV director be more important than a college dean? (Marco Atlagic: Not the same law. It's not the same law, but it's the same case. We're picking someone who retired as director for another five years, and here we say that the professor who retired has been extended to him, and this isn't even an extended job internship. Here we need to be clear and concrete – not by grandma, not by uncles. We have to be prepared, and when we're wrong to apologize, and when someone points out something we thank, we say – thank you, sorry, I was wrong, etc. From me so much, I'm sorry if I was boring and thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3081	You weren't boring. I thank Professor Ljubisa Stojmirovic. We continue, the word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3082	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, corruption is a unique tax. Mostly under corruption, we consider when civil servants who are paid from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the province budgets, local budgets outside their own personal incomes and incomes write a special tax called – IMT – whether I am there or you lack one paper. Nowhere is less than in front of a counter, or somewhere people are bigger than they are behind the counter. One pays, the other collects. Corruption can be reduced, completely eradicated very hard. But we only see corruption as money. There are several types of corruption. There's white corruption, gray corruption and black corruption. White corruption is corruption based on nepotism. When one of the appointed, appointed, elected officials uses his position and places his family in certain places or provides them with public sector jobs, for example from RTS, from a public service. I'll talk about it a little bit wider later. There is gray corruption, which is based on the exchange of services. I do you a favor in public affairs, and you do me another favor by hiring you this one, you hire me that one, I give you this job, and you give me that job. There's also this black corruption, it's a direct receipt of money. I'm afraid we're only preventing this last one. I'm gonna go a little atypical. There's an Anti-Corruption Agency called the Anti-Corruption Agency. Imagine, they're setting up a Anti-Corruption Agency. The agency, in order to start working, must have some kind of building. Mr. Martinovic, so he should have a building. At that moment, the state has plenty of buildings and space. Let's say that White Bank and what Dinkic, what our people say, sing, transfer money to other places, and these banks remain empty, no one was interested. But the Anti-Corruption Agency wasn't exactly thrilled by the area that was abundant, but by walking past a building on the corner, somewhere near the Green Wreath, they noticed a building and decided to move into it. Imagine the Anti-Corruption Agency that buys a building without public procurement. So, buy a building for the agency, then it was to fight corruption, but buy it without public procurement. So corruption is 100% possible. You know who he buys it from? From mobsters, from a mobster who was arrested during Sablje in that famous White Book, just run by the former regime's party. Now, imagine how this agency fought against Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic, etc., which I will talk about in the next period. In addition, it was the Anti-Corruption Council. Until the death of Verice Baraac, that advice was doing something. In this council is the famous Jelisaveta Vasilic. Now I'm going to talk about this white and gray corruption. So, Jelisaveta has a close relative who she hired at the "New S", but that's why the Anti-Corruption Council made a stand for the defence of Dragan Solak and his interests, and among other things on SBB, this particular Luxembourg-based TV "New S", like those other 28 channels, is being broadcast. Imagine, the lady is 81 years old, so she has no pension, she enters the Anti-Corruption Council. Well, it's a specific kind of corruption. You came in once, I don't know, 15 years ago, no re-election, no nothing. You know who they report to? You're on your own. This year's work report is being adopted next year. It's a society for itself. That's what I call it. Someone gets hold of the School, someone else, someone's pointing someone out on purpose to make a deal, and that's what we call the Anti-Corruption Council. So there are two bodies and two bodies, one is the Anti-Corruption Agency, that's when it was called to fight corruption, and this is the Anti-Corruption Council. I must say that while Verica Baraq was alive, it made sense, because the woman was fighting. Here's an example of corruption between Dragan Gilas and Goko Gilas. Thousands of square meters of real estate, here they are now reaching Switzerland, opening up some companies, the founding stake of five million, that's small for them. If everyone had worked as Verica Baraq, it probably wouldn't have happened. If a woman hadn't died, if there were more fighters like that, it probably wouldn't have happened. For example, the 48 Hour wedding business, the show takes hours, within the show or in the content of the show, you have a covert advertising, the sponsors are inside, and it costs nothing. Thirty minutes, but RTS pays 13,000 euros per episode, plus advertising space. It's a secret contract. When some bodies or someone asks questions about RTS and Gilas's business, they get the answer that I got, that the parties agreed to keep it a business secret and we don't have the right to ask public service how they made the deal, say, with the Darrekt Media. So, I asked for some sports games. Let's say, the Darekt Media has no right to broadcast games, because these most important events should be transmitted by media covering the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, because it is about representations. By the way, he was president of the basketball union of Serbia, whose transmission matches he bought from himself, I guess, and then sold to RTS. "Darrect Media" is not television and has no right to broadcast the media, but she buys rights to transmissions and then RTS doesn't buy it from him. To my question I get the answer that the contract contained is a business secret. When I ask, "It's baby time," they won't give me an answer. Also, "48 Hours Wedding" 104 episodes or 104 shows of half an hour, that's a million and three hundred thousand, plus advertising space, etc., which is charged by Gilas and all the time is Gilas a public official. When she was Verica Baraq, she pointed to it. Tragedy, the woman died and no one was interested in anything else. Today, for example, a member of Jelisaveta Vasojevic is actively representing the School's business. That's 30 unregistered channels. We have a REM secretary, a certain Todorovic or something, which tells me that re-emissioning is a signal walk through a cabal. Like, it goes from Belgrade to Luxembourg, from Luxembourg to Slovenia, from Slovenia again, and it is technically considered a re-emitation. It says in the law - re-emissioning is at the same time taking over the original programme that is broadcast abroad without ending, changing and inserting advertisements etc. You also have a Rajka Galin, etc., who also refuses to give me answers at one point, because I insist on finding out how pirate channels can work in the Republic of Serbia. How can national channels pay REM compensation, RATEL, SOKOJ, etc., and these pay nothing because they are foreign televisions whose programme is being taken simultaneously without changes? It's okay that's the way it is, but it's not like that. The programme is being created in Serbia, broadcast in Serbia, only fictitiously called themselves cross-border channels. From Luxembourg, I get the answer exactly - they're registered with us, but they don't broadcast the program. How can something be re-routed if it hasn't been broadcast before? It was a question that I repeatedly asked REM and got no one's answer. The Anti-Corruption Agency, not least to check why some officials in REM claim what they're saying, is in favour of the School. Now watch, RTS and national channels and home channels SBB pay nothing. It's like me taking out beans, potatoes, onions, corn, etc. And that dealer gave it away without compensation. So they got somebody right during the yellow ones and they don't have to pay anything. Serbia's radio-television has forced it to separate the show's technique, is that right, Mr. Martinovic, and connections. Look out, forced over Brussels, excavated there. Well, there's no greater corruption than in Brussels. They made them separate RTS connections and broadcast techniques from the production of program broadcasts. Look at the wonders, the SBB allowed it, even though the show was a technique and cable. So it could be over the tower, and it could be through the cable, through the underground. Probably the underworld is doing this media activity. Now it means all domestic concessions for free. National television with a national silence frequency. Why don't you keep your mouth Because big cities mostly get a program through cable. If they rebel, this SBB lunatic can act against the law, because he's already acting like one, shut them down, and then they're not visible, and their commercials won't be visible. Look wonders, nothing pays home channels that ReM, RATEL, SOKOJ and others pay everything, and pays their 28 to 30 channels, these fake cross-border from 13 sports clubs, Nova S, Grand, Sinai, mostly about 30 channels, pays them re-emission, and that money goes for a re-emission that doesn't exist. Mr. Martinovic, you're in law enforcement, so if someone pays from this country a fictitious service abroad, there's no re-emitting? When there's no re-emitting, what did you pay for it? You threw out the money, you laundered the money, cut the profits and cut the taxes. N1 television doesn't have a PIB. They are used by the P.I.B. Adria News d.o.o. Belgrade. Nor is this their founder, and if it were, every new company, right, Mr. Arsic, there must be a special PIB. I get an answer from some ministry clerk that they're using a PIB-Adriatic News Ltd. Belgrade. Almost outrageous. Luxembourg TV, reportedly and PIB Serbian. It's nowhere to be found, people. What does the Anti-Corruption Agency do, the Anti-Corruption Council? What are they doing? Jure Marijan Rističević, for example. They're after me. I send them, what you told me, I send them what the public official did, the MP, how the 29 million and something were pumped up, here he is. This is blacked out so you don't happen to see the birth numbers. It says nice – the Republic of Serbia, the Anti-Corruption Agency. Sent. I got the material from some MPs who were probably kicked out of the Dvora, they probably sent me everything with invoices, etc. I send it to the Republic of Serbia, the Anti-Corruption Agency, and we report to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, since what you said was true is that more people from Dveri's electoral list or some committee lists are involved, which is the very view of everything. Here's the famous scheme you're talking about. All the money was transferred immediately the next day to entrepreneurship stores, not companies, because the company's operations to a certain amount were not in VAT, so the money was transferred to six million, here they went all this way, as soon as it arrived the next day it was raised in cash and many of these companies were closed. The money probably came to Bosko Obradovic and his close men, and therefore they themselves rebelled and later, those who said I was not telling the truth themselves confirmed that this was true. What happened? In response, I got beat up, after all, at the entrance to the National Assembly. So next time I'm probably waiting for a machine gun or I don't know what they're gonna use to eliminate me. As far as the Constitution is concerned, Article 103 says - a MP cannot be called to criminal and other responsibility for an opinion or vote when performing his post. It's not a trial against me, four times, it's against all of you, it's against the National Assembly. It was introduced to protect opposition MPs, so the government could not prosecute opposition MPs for the words spoken here. The Ustasha writer must have thought of that. However, it happened that, behold, this third branch of government was some opposition branch of government, as far as I can see, formed in 2009 when there was unity between executive, representative and judicial authorities. They joined together nicely, put their relatives, their members among the judges. We have a problem now. The people think, rightly thinking, that this state to enforce the laws that we bring must have power, like that cannon of Emperor Dushan, is power, and in the other hand it's the laws. Laws without the power to enforce are not laws. Do we have that power, given this kind of justice? Of course we don't. Then it happens what happens. We've got a Wolf Jeremiah. I asked the question, from the three million I received at that centre, the NGO, when it was another three million, later it grew to seven, and the entrepreneurial store "Vuk Jeremic Consalting". Sam Vuk Jeremic says in his New York testimony that while he was president of the UN Assembly, and a little later, he was paid for two years by Patrick Hoa, who was convicted, with 330,000 euros for consulting services. What are consulting services? For example, it would be a favor for Jeremic to tell Patrick Hoe what to do without being subject to some investigation, etc. As he advised him when he received years of imprisonment, that's what you can see. It's not our problem that America wasn't after Vuk Jeremic, but that it wasn't being chased by the Anti-Corruption Agency, because at the same time it was a national envoy in this assembly. Come on, you SNS gentlemen, I'm NSS, try to make some money on 330,000 consulting contracts, if I say the euro is a mistake, dollars, you try to get your wife out of New York $800,000 without being investigated. It's not a public link, it's a matter of investigation. I think the Agency would immediately notify the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime. There'd be anything and everything. However, Vuk Jeremic, the heart of myo, so he set them up, he allowed the government to buy a building from mobsters without public procurement, etc. And it's probably why every investigation was avoided, it wasn't until today. I wonder who we're holding at the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Council. It's the back-up of the former regime's parties. The fact that you set up a director doesn't mean anything because it's all theirs in the depths. Let's move on. Janko Vesenovic, political gromada, Golubic, Obrovac, a man who went to Croatia, led several Serb buses to vote before the vote itself, stopped the buses before Obrovac and ordered everyone to vote for HDZ candidate. Do you think it went without corruption? Then from the militia Badge, that's why he gets the apartment, and no one has ever, ever, we've repeated it, conducted an investigation, or been the subject of the Anti-Corruption Agency, but that's why it was me. You know why I was? I ask you, Mr Martinovic, does this apply to all MPs who have multiple mandates consecutively, does the property report a function or functioner? Mr. Arsic can also answer me because he has experience with it. It's a functioner. Now I'm asking you, the function of the same moment stops and becomes second to us, so you haven't stopped your function as I have, but they keep asking us to do the same thing because we're the same people's MPs again, because there wasn't, not one day, not one second, once your mandate ends, the second you get your second term, and you're obliged to report your property again. And another case like this. Let's say you have to be placed, elected, and yet more faces from the republican organ, circuit, local, chosen, appointed and appointed. Let's say I was in the RFO on the target of this pharmaceutical mob, 24 innovative drugs, 45 kids abroad were treated before us, we got to 650. Looks like somebody didn't like it. I was there as a representative of the Association of Farmers, pensioners' associations giving second, employees' associations giving a third, four giving a government, sent me there by the association. The Anti-Corruption Agency declares it a conflict of interest. We have colleagues who have more functions directly that have been appointed by the authorities, by some government, by some congregation, even passing through it continues to pass. They determined that I was in conflict of interest, and that the lady who participated in the purchase of real estate from mobsters, without public procurement, was then the Anti-Corruption Agency. Now, these are your white, black, gray forms of corruption. Knowledge, knowledge is portable. This professor thing, as long as a man can convey knowledge, teachers, teachers and teachers, they're precious to me. The question of their mandates, etc. For me, it's something I can't figure out. As long as a man is able to learn, who doesn't learn that fall, like a bike ride. As you spin your pedals, you don't fall. As you study, we learn every day. So whoever wants to survive in some business has to learn from that area every day. As soon as you stop, you're behind, you're losing speed and falling. That's the way it is with this. Knowledge that hasn't been transmitted and isn't much of a knowledge. Knowledge must be portable and applicable. If someone's doing this, in my opinion, it could be up to 90 years to teach people, and we should tolerate it. Not to tolerate Vasilićka, who adopts his own reports in the Anti-Corruption Council and has made a pike, that is, a private gig for Solak's businesses. It can, and those who convey knowledge, poor teachers, teachers and teachers, can't do that. What's with the Teodorovic? To whom does he convey knowledge? He discusses bees and traffic, how traffic should be regulated the way bees do it. But he got into honey a long time ago. The Anti-Corruption Agency was not involved in his escape to America during the aggression, and was returned by the government in 2000 and some years, it is outrageous for the government to place a professor at a certain university. And today she is giving us moral sermons like Janko Veselinović. So I regret their students they teach, I don't know what they can learn from such people. Most of the time, to conclude, the subject of the Corruption Prevention Agency is mostly people who can't have anything to do with corruption. The poor MP, apparently, has worse jobs than ours, but what bothers you and me, the Agency for every little thing, and they know very well, because they come here, that here in this convincing majority, maybe when it was 127, when they ruled, they paid off so they wouldn't fall in power, but with most of the 180, 200, or how many MPs they already are, it's impossible to be corrupt. Mostly everyone, everyone, always, what our people say, sharpens on the MPs. You can steal, like I might, two files, two pens, one coat of paper, it's the only thing I have in my office that could be the subject of some theft, or the subject of some corruption. Mostly we're targets, say when we get food for, this service, as it's called, the Joint Affairs Authority, it gets food for the whole republic, for foreign delegations, we've never seen those dishes, let them, they get for everything, and they attribute everything to us. They say it's for the People's Messengers. We don't have a restaurant. Why are they lying? The Anti-Corruption Agency should go out and say - no more, these people don't use that food in such a way, and secondly, we don't have a restaurant, we have a space in the National Assembly, in which the Joint Affairs Office installed kitchens and tables, and the food is divided under the same conditions by employees, MPs, as it does in the Government, ministries and other bodies. We just don't eat 5% of that food, and I'm not going down there for over six years, and on the front page they come out, they're picking on the weight, they're just putting, like, abuse of the restaurant, they're putting us a little bit thick, they're putting Seselj, Chanka and me on the front page. Look, I haven't been going in six years, and these people aren't going to the restaurant either. Then they write, we eat, I don't know what... The fruits of the sea, and the cake, and the lamb, and the pigs, and the squid, and the mussels, and all of us ate, and upon the bellies it would be said, but none of us goes down. So, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Council, for which I don't know who chooses them or who controls them, adopts their own reports. My advice is to deal with them as Verica Barac, with true corruption, let's say, the Gilas brothers continue. Because they have no intention of stopping, ever since they got into honey, they've brought together public and private jobs they have no intention of stopping. So Gilas got rich on doing public work doing his own private business, and that's why it should be the subject of an investigation not only by the Agency and the Anti-Corruption Council, but also the subject of an investigation by the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime, because it's the biggest robbery and this robbery that Solak's doing with fake cross-border channels, so that's what they should be dealing with, not people's MPs who don't have two decent suits, not wanting to be insulted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3083	Thank you. The next on the list of speakers is the MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whenever the subject of the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency is a matter of some sort, it seems to me, interesting and always interesting to the public on this issue, and one part of the former regime is constantly wanting to present it and to launch that topic, which is, of course, their right. The saddest thing is that even some state authorities and those deep countries, so the officials who came to certain public functions, came to them at a time when the former regime exercised power and these are the most common judicial or prosecutorial functions. You can see how some judges are playing with MPs, it is on the obvious case of counterpart Marjan Risticevic. Because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the MP on this famous member of 103 enjoys certain immunity under certain conditions, but absolute and non-injurious immunity is for giving a vote or for a voiced opinion in the National Assembly. So there is no mechanism for the MP to be prosecuted for voting or expressed opinion. It doesn't exist. He can't do that, not the National Assembly. This is foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now, you see, the judge, who is writing a request for the removal of immunity to the chairman of the Administrative Committee, in this case, Aleksandr Martinovic, what kind of legal and political union is being made by the National Assembly and the People's MPs. You can imagine, the MP says - well, I won't appeal to immunity, to immunity for which the judge himself should protect him because he knows he can't be judged even when he gives up that part of immunity. It is a vote in the National Assembly and an opinion expressed in the National Assembly, the process goes on. If such a judge continues the proceedings, counterpart Risticevic follows, the MP must lose such a dispute as much as he is right. Next is the Constitutional Court. I believe that the Constitutional Court would not support what the judge of the basic or higher court does, but hypothetically if he supports it, he says that everything was done in accordance with the Constitution. What else can the MP do? Well, to address the International Court in Strasbourg. Well, what kind of picture would they send us if judges of international courts protected us from the judges we chose, who did not follow in the first place of their constitution. Now, that's what the judges of Gilas do. That's what the deep state that the former regime installed in Serbia does. As soon as you try to change anything, you are on the move, firstly, by the non-governmental sector which they are also funding, to violate the independence of certain judicial and prosecutorial officials, and immediately after them, I cannot say, the administration of Brussels, but individuals who are making a very bad picture of Serbia. That's why we have one of these authentic interpretations. I think that when the Anti-Corruption Agency Act was passed, the first anti-corruption law, and later the Agency Act when the Agency was established and how it functioned, it was not the intention of the former regime to prevent corruption by adopting one of these laws. This is in favour of the fact that during the previous period, the Agency was solely in form, not in essence. She didn't ask questions that solve the essence of fighting corruption. If the MP, for example, inherits a certain salary with a building facility, that building facility, for example at the moment of inheritance, has 150 squares and if he knows when to build it for another two or three squares and because he's a long-time user, he thinks that the data he has in the ownership list is really accurate, report that property and if the Corruption Agency reveals him those two or three squares, he'll get a criminal report. It's a form, not he hid those 120, 130, but he forgot because of the flow of time to report those two, three squares. That's what our Anti-Corruption Agency did. They didn't do that, like, here, I'm going to interrupt this part of the exposure, here's what the former regime is looking for, that we don't talk about them in the National Assembly because they're not there. Well, they shut themselves down, and they were there. Well, you didn't participate in the work of the National Assembly. Well, why didn't you go to the election? Let's also say that this is a former regime which, by some political decision, has changed the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No, it was changed by the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because they were the most common thieves. And we'll talk about their thieving. And no one can in any way prevent us from talking about how evil they have done to Serbian citizens, not a single negotiation process in party and interparty dialogue. We'll talk. And to get back, no one from that Anti-Corruption Agency has asked what's going on with our public service. This was an apparent illegal influence on the work of the public service, meaning a public company that is performing a public interest, which was financed directly from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is being declared by the National Assembly and agreed that these funds be transferred to public service, in order to buy from that same public service a senior official of a political party, then the incumbent mayor of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas, through his related legal entities, through his associated legal entities, where he bought public service services under the price, and the loss that the public service had due to the cheap sale of the service, was covered by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's how our then Anti-Corruption Agency didn't deal with it. In those four years, it was stolen from the Republika Srpska budget through a public service of 650m euros. It's corruption. That's where the property goes up. But those in the law who brought it themselves will say it's not Dragan Gilas' property, that it's his company's property. Well, let's explain this Dragan Gilas, who he was working with, what contract did he conclude, did he inform the Anti-Corruption Agency about the contract? None of it was, nor did she ask for the Anti-Corruption Agency. But that's why he took 150-160m euros from the Republic of Serbia's budget every year for four years. And now they're talking about how they take care of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A colleague, Marijan Risticevic, is recognised first in the National Assembly as a representative of agricultural producers, although they represent him as a criminal, but, well, that's theirs. See how the same over agriculture and the mass of small agricultural producers stole from the Serbian budget again. The high subsidies they gave per hectare for a farmland were intended not to help farmers, but to reduce the real price of a agricultural product at the price that corresponds to the tycoons, that you, and we know who it was, was the director of the Democratic Party, it seems to me, Kostic, Kole, that these same agricultural producers are buying out as cheap as possible their agricultural product, and the loss has been replaced again by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Now we don't need to talk about what they did to the Serbian budget? How did they abuse public service? How did they abuse our citizens to gain wealth? And now they're going and talking in some kind of forum. Now they're very good, very smart, very honest. It's just a bunch of crooks. And see the judge who's going to charge me and file a criminal case. They brought us in because of this radical application of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act in that the National Assembly must give authentic interpretation of what is absolutely clear, unequivocally. Come on, one more time we're going to write, one more time we're going to vote. But let neither Dragan Djilas nor Solak nor Miskovic nor Kostic nor Pajtic nor Marinika hope that I will ever count them again, will ever take from Serbia and be rich again. So we're gonna tell all the citizens how much they stole from us, how many they robbed us, how many years our lives have been ruined as long as we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3085	I thank the People's MP, Veroljub Arsic. The word has been made by the People's MP Vladica Maricic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3086	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have authentic interpretations of the provisions of two laws – the Law on Higher Education and the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. Both of these laws have recently been passed. The Higher Education Act was passed in 2017 and it then replaced the same name law from 2005. The 2005 law is remembered for the systemic shortcomings this National Assembly had to correct almost every year in September and October of the month, so that it could be applied. Knowing those who passed the laws in 2005, I would not be surprised that these systemic shortcomings were deliberately left behind. As far as the 2017 law is concerned, it has fully and comprehensively regulated a higher education system in Serbia. There is still a system of funding for higher education and student organisation, which will be governed by special laws that I believe will be adopted in this mandate of the National Assembly. As I said, the 2017 law solved all the misunderstandings. A high education approach has also been defined after completing four-year secondary education, and a national accreditation body has been defined as an independent body, which was the request of Enkva and a request for the inclusion of Serbian higher education in the European single educational space. The procedure for the termination of the office's mandate was also defined, as the previous law of 2005 did have provisions that defined when the office's mandate ended, but did not have a procedure for how to do so, which was massively misused. The 2017 law also clearly defined the conditions that a teacher, or a regular professor, needs to meet to be chosen to be the institution’s operating authority. He had to be full-time and elected indefinitely, but we see that there have been examples that individual deans, rectors, presidents, or directors depending on which high school institution is working on using one other member of the same law that defines the possibility of prolonging employment and after 65 years of life. That member is clear enough. He says that a teacher, or a regular professor, can continue working after 65 years of working for a certain time, for up to two years with the possibility of extending to 70 years of life and only if there is a need for his work to continue. So, the need to work in the classroom, not the need to manage the facility and contract work for a certain time. Now I'm trying to imagine what that situation was like where some college dean, who was the only one who was authorized to conclude such a contract, concluded a contract with himself because of the need to carry out classes. Just when I thought that such examples in practice might not have happened, and that this authentic interpretation prevents me from doing any future things, I got a phone call from one of the college professors, I'm not going to name here, who told me that her dean is 65 years old, and that this year he plans to run for another term that ends in his 68 or 69 years of life. Well, he won't. With this authentic interpretation, we prevent any creative interpretation of this member of the law and not just for the future, because authentic interpretation does not produce its legal fact for the future, authentic interpretation is an interpretation of the provision that has so far been valid, so that all those bodies of employment, higher education institutions in Serbia, who turned 65 years old, will have to stop the mandate of the operating authority. As regards the Anti-Corruption Act, it was adopted in 2019, and with application it began from 1 September 2020 and it replaced the earlier existing law, i.e. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, adopted in 2008, which has also often had to be changed due to its systemic shortcomings. The 2019 Law on the Prevention of Corruption, in my opinion, contains a clear definition of public officials, but we see that in practice there were those who creatively interpreted this definition, whether it was public officials who wanted to avoid obligations under the law or whether it was the very Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, which, by widely interpreting this member of the law, also put it on regular professors who were members of the council of the university, or even students chosen by the student parliament as members of the university or university council, which is not the spirit of this law. Those who wrote and adopted this law did not want them to be apostrophe when they defined public officials and now we public officials unequivocally define them according to the body that chose them, appointed them or named them, and there will be no longer any dispute, no possibility of any creative interpretation. What I would have noticed, which is that in this authentic interpretation, perhaps, along with the authorities of the local self-government unit, the authorities of the city's municipalities should have been listed. I know that by analogy this provision will apply to the authorities of the local self-government unit and to the authorities of the city municipalities, but since I come from Nis, which is the only one, besides Belgrade, organized urban municipalities throughout its territory. So we have five city halls. It is always important for the city's municipalities to be as precise as possible by law as possible, which is also a tendency in some laws that have been adopted in recent years, and we hope that the next draft of the Law on Local Self-Government in the way of organization, and above all the jurisdiction of city municipalities, will be even better arranged. I, as well as my colleagues from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, will support these two proposals for authentic interpretation of the provisions of these two laws because our work today on authentic interpretation is a continuation of further reforms in Serbia, and I remind you that the overall reform of the system in Serbia is one of the six principles on which the Government of the Republic of Serbia was founded, which was declared immediately before its election by President Aleksandar Vukic. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3087	I thank the People's MP, Vladica Maricic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3088	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3089	Thank you, President Dacic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is always of course interesting and challenging to talk about a subject that treats the fight against corruption, that is, all those institutions and all those state and social actors that are involved in something that represents one starting basis for the development of a country, which is a uncompromising and unfortunate fight against corruption and organised crime. I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our colleagues that President Vukic, at the time of the prime minister in 2014, declared war on corruption and that we brought and voted here in this House for the Anti-Corruption Strategy and defined it as one of the main policy objectives of the Government of Serbia, but also of all state institutions. What we call zero tolerance to corruption here means very simply that this government, that the majority in parliament fully understands and accepts the fact that the fight against corruption is something that is most important in the domain of economic, political, social and any other development of this country, that there is no development and that there is no economic, political and social reform if there is no quality, uncompromising and successful fight against corruption. At that time, the prime minister, today President Vukic has shown that the fight against corruption, led by the SNS, does not worry about who is called, who is who, where he works, where he is at the level of the social scale and where the political party belongs, but this country and its competent authorities are already fully equal and clear in their goal and orientation, that he is dealing with all those who do bad and who are doing negative for this country, for this economy. Any occurrence of corruption and any realization of any corrupt work, any involvement of any civil servant, official or official in any corrupt arrangement or corrupt business makes it possible for an ordinary citizen of the Republic of Serbia and is prevented from living with dignity from working and improving the quality of life of his own and his family and, of course, the wider community in which he lives. We can't talk about the problem of fighting corruption, or preventing corruption without going back to the near past, we can't talk about it if we don't analyse it in one real and real way between 2000 and 2012. In moments and times when we all expected changes, when we were all expecting, and I can say it freely and personally, honey and milk after these changes, that there will be a time when a liberal market economy will be established, where a society of equal opportunities will be established for all citizens, new investments, employment opportunities, development of education, we have come to the conclusion that these 12 years are just creating a political and party elite, a functional elite that is actually the main one, the creator and who defined corruption and corrupt business arrangements, as a way of life in this country. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens, the Honorable President, so for those 12 years we had poor results in the area of infrastructure, which is why no one wanted to come to invest in the Republic of Serbia, which is why the EU and the European Commission encouraged an investigation into 24 controversial privatisations that took place in our country between 2000 and 2008, in particular 2004 and 2008, and created such an atmosphere that over three hundred thousand people lost their jobs, that, unfortunately, they entered into Serbia what is called speculal capital, to enter the white-world hohstatters who bought, of course, took over industrial branches for small money, but not wanting and without intending to invest further, without intending to continue to employ, to do good to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course to themselves and their companies. We are very realistic and we are very struggling to create an environment for those who invest here in Serbia to be well, to feel good in Serbia, to have good and favourable conditions concerning both taxes and monetary and any other policies and to be treated right here. It was not possible at the time and, as I said earlier, corruption became a way of life and a way of functioning, how one part of the business that affected the choice of political authorities, which affected the results of the elections and even the results when it came to the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia between 2000 and 2012. Mr. Dacic, you know very well that Karl Marks fought against the bourgeoisia, right, and he defined two types of bourgeoisia. He defined the national and defined the existence of a comparative bourgeoisie. Unfortunately, we suffered such an accident that between 2000 and 2012 we created what is called a comparative bourgeoisia aimed at emptying the budget of the Republic of Serbia, enriching itself, its family and its political elite with its corrupt arrangements, and at no time considering the interests of citizens, the interests of workers, the interest and the future of the Republic of Serbia. I was consterned when I heard and listened to the speech by Marijan Risticevic, my esteemed colleague, who spoke about specific cases, which talked about concrete examples of people from our political scene who received money for certain services and who at no time felt the need to, as public workers, in any way justify it and show the citizens of the Republic of Serbia whose votes pleaded in the elections, at least colloquially, under the quotes, since in June 2020 they were not allowed to go to elections, given that all these parties, according to the latest survey of the "Facor Plus" agency, had no more, individually none of the three per cent vote. It is very alarming what Mr Risticevic was talking about, but I will relate to what he said today that part of the opposition is talking about and sometimes giving us a lecture on how we should behave in the process of development, specifically, environmental policy, social policy, infrastructure, new jobs, investment. Now, the current environmental policy and investment and investment in environmental protection, of course, which is very important to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore we have the Ministry of Environmental Protection that will do the best possible job, so that the environment in Serbia is clean and that, primarily, we can ensure people's health, so that our people are safe, in addition to what we do on the plan to provide investment and new jobs. Do you know how their environmental policy was conducted? Remember, I'll remind some of my younger colleagues, since these seniors have more seats in parliament and they know it well. Remember the "Let's Clean Serbia" campaign during Minister Oliver Dulic. Five hundred forty thousand euros were paid to the building's Pop Lukano in Belgrade near Brank's bridge for seven days of rental, in order to advertise the famous "Let's Clean Serbia" campaign, and within which Serbia has not been cleaned, Brankova Street has not been cleaned, but the budget of the Republic of Serbia has been cleared. That's how this comparative elite acted, and so this comparative elite is telling us today and giving us a lecture on why we didn't make more highways, we made over 300 kilometers, why we didn't attract more investment, we attracted over 3.5 billion euros of foreign direct investment in 2019. We talked the other day, my colleagues here talked about how much they have invested in both the process and social policy and social protection in culture in all segments of social life. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this result that we have today, this result that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has and this country headed by Alexander Vukic is something that really deserves a huge respect in terms of what we are the basis and what situation we found in 2012 and 2014 related to the state budget, related to the situation in all areas of social life in Serbia. What I want to point out is that corruption and this very comparative elite were responsible for the fact that they also pulled out the last substance of the wealth of this country and the wealth of this people. In order not to be forgotten, I would like to say that some 50 billion euros have entered Serbia between 2000 and 2012 which is an investment, which is foreign aid, which is a grant. Do you think a mile of railroad was done, enough roads were made, to provide enough infrastructure for domestic entrepreneurs to invest here? Did we in any way encourage them? We didn't. Do you know why? Because their companies were developing, because they were being given, and because those companies that were close to the government, were being raised. They were grown tycoons. The Serbian Progressive Party, although conservative and party to the right centre, encourages the development of the market economy, encourages competition, encourages businesses. We want her to have as many as possible every day. We encourage a competition, but we always want to say that we are against any tycoon interference in this country's economic life and I think we did it. Unfortunately, as part of the fight against corruption and as part of the fight with this plague comes what happened a few days ago, which is an inseparable part of the corrupt arrangements and corruption as a way of life, which is drug trafficking, human trafficking, it's drug cartels, it's organized crime. This organized crime and these cartels that are now, already known and already every bird on the branch knows, had in common with different foreign centres of power and here domestic political structures intent not to dehumanize, which was the predecessor of President Vukic with snipers in his chest and with headlines or cartoons that were absolutely not benign, they intended to get rid of this man who had these reforms and implemented them. What is the role of us here in parliament, regardless of whether we belong to one or another party, whether we belong to the majority or to the opposition, it is our job to say openly and loudly that we speak of names and last names and raise our voice against such phenomena in our society, to condemn drug cartels, to condemn them by name and last name, to say from this pay phone that Veljko Belivuk should lie in prison for 30-40 years. Not to say - we're colloquial, we're against, we're for fighting organized crime. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's fine, but it's no help at all. If we allow one man to fight organized crime and corruption, then it will not be good and the whole struggle will be passed on to him, that is, in this case President Aleksandar Vukic, it will not be good for the state or for these citizens. That is why it is very important and I see it with many colleagues that they are ready to come out, say their opinions and define a clear position on this matter, whether they belong to the SNS, whether they belong to the Foreigners of Justice and Reconciliation, to the People's Peasant Party, to SPAS or to any other political organisation. So much for fighting corruption. I'm going to have one or two minutes on this authentic interpretation concerning the extension of the deadline for leading posts at schools, universities and universities. I would like to share my opinion and, of course, a kind of appeal to Minister Branko Ruzic and the first Deputy Prime Minister when it comes to the law that defines the engagement of teaching staff and that restriction that defines the retirement of professors and teachers at 65 years of age, with the possibility of extending two plus one year of their engagement. Here I fully agree with Marijana Risticevic that it is necessary to think about it and simply allow people and you, Mr Dacic, know it very well, you had in SMEs that Association of diplomats, people who are in certain years, but who can very much help this society with their advice, their work, who are vital. I don't think that for a profession there should be restrictions and I don't think that it's a kind of discrimination, that we should limit someone who's 80 or 72 or 73 years old to give lectures, to give lectures to students in doctoral studies or to master studies or in any other format. I think the state needs to find a place for these people, like Germany and we used it these past years. Germany has at all times about 10,000 experts, people from different areas, such as foreign affairs, economies, businesses and investments that Germany promotes and enables other countries to use their services and their experience. Many of these people have come here to Serbia to help us in the process of economic reforms, social reforms, since we also organise and build our society in general by modelling the Federal Republic of Germany, so we are building a kind of social, market economy that is based on competitiveness, but also on a strong, stable relationship with socially sensitive groups. Once again, full support for the fight against corruption for all those who contribute to this domain, but I think the time has come for it to be done much more directly, much more quality, much better, and for President Vukic's struggle to gain, when it comes to much, much more support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3090	Thank you. Sandra Christmas's national emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3091	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mr. Dacic. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, citizens and citizens, I will apologize in advance for the shortest possible extent of my exposure to today's agenda, because you will allow me to make certain day-to-day political situations that are happening outside this hall deserve to be part of and the subject that we are going to talk about, which we will draw public attention to because I think it is indeed the role of Members of Parliament. As far as authentic interpretation is concerned, I have absolutely nothing to add, and what my already respected colleague, Mr. Alexander Martinovic, has already said, and indeed, after such an excellent lawyer, I think that every word is unnecessary, except that, of course, in the day of the vote, which is today, I will support absolutely every proposal from the parliamentary group. Of course, Mr. Martinovic explained best why these authentic interpretations were requested. As for these other day-to-day policy issues I'd really like to talk about today just because there's a lot to be said in this place. Why is that enough? That's enough about a lot of things. A special one that happened again today, this is exactly what my dear colleague used to say, and before me, Vladimir Marinkovic, the fight against crime, corruption and mob circles. We once again commended all of our security structures that went into effect, and we saw that they actually touched the nest of the belivuk after the intervention, and the criminal structure he was running, we saw that the first ones who apparently, when their flocks and associates were found behind bars, were the first lawyers to be the ones who were beastly torturing, killing and stealing through Serbia. Who are they? They are just all of them from the former regime, which, without a doubt right now, we can claim, and I am sure that soon the evidence will arrive, cooperate or cooperate at least to the greatest extent with all the structures of the mafia and not only those that may have been created in some past period of ten years, but only remember everything that happened to us in 2003 and the way the Zemun clan was created and the same recipe that was tried right here in our country's territory in Belgrade in Panchev. So, the deal with these mafia structures, with the mob group led by Belivuk certainly is just the beginning of one action, and that's the deal with crime, corruption at every level and in every form, with me quite sure that some specific employers who have recognized each other are obviously, but also very perfiduously reporting from different press conferences, I'm sure we'll only hear about it in the next period, and I'm sure I'll say again, it's justifiable that Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Jeremic, Aleksic, and we've seen Bosko Obradovic, as the first who jumped to defend these criminal structures, are precisely those involved in all corruption and mob affairs we'll talk about in the coming days. One of them has just used that the fact that he is absolutely powerless to defend himself against everything we have called him here today, my distinguished colleague Martinovic spoke about what was said in this home in the previous period about Bosko Obradovic and what all the MPs were saying and did not react. Neither did the prosecution that accounts for the most part today to Dragan Gilas, and we are aware of that when they cannot deal with the facts, and the facts clearly point to their anxiety and panic, which is even more than obvious, indicates that these mentioned ones had absolutely nothing to do with all the criminal structures that have ever ruled in Serbia for their time, and we have seen for God now, it is not our honor this and for our time. So, instead of being dealt with by the mob, let's all be on the side of the truth, let's all be on the side of being healthy from the roots to the top, that our country doesn't fear that one mother is wondering when her child is late or when she doesn't see her child, or God forbid when she burys him. Who sold the drugs that came into his hands, mostly underage? So, instead of all of us standing on the same side, to protect the future of our children, to protect everything that we're all programming for in our parties and political options, today you have a press conference for Bosko Obradovic who doesn't deal with the state, he doesn't even deal with Alexander Vukic, he doesn't even deal with a mob that he morally has to stop with and deal with as anything else, he deals with the children of Aleksandr Vukic. He's dealing with Danil Vukic again. One of the reasons is that no one, any of the journalists, came to his press conference today. So what can you conclude? Bosko Obradovic is not interested in the public in Serbia. After all the fascist outbursts, after all the lies we had the opportunity to hear and see from Bosko Obradovic and his members, the public got tired. The public no longer cares what Bosko Obradovic has to say. Now, from that birch, from this impotence, when you find out that you are irrelevant instead of having to deal with yourself within your own political option, because there is no value left in it, you are dealing with the children of Alexander Vukic and there is nothing different or left of the same family. Bosko Obradovic is probably only recommending for what he would like or would like to get from Dragan Gilas and from his 619m. Also, anxiety is present at Marina Tepic, who declared her attempt to kill a chicken. I guess it's the only attempted murder in history ever recorded. Telima was defending her life. Marinika Tepic only attacked her fascist policy, which she led all these years along with Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, Miroslav Aleksic. This is what all of them should stand in line for and ask themselves, not to be exchanged as a duplicate, so here you are, I don't need Miroslav Aleksic anymore, I don't need Marinika Tepic, let him go to you etc. They're not even interesting enough, because those that are interesting, you know, sometimes you can exchange each other. The ones you're not interested in, you're just moving on. It is precisely on the political scene and Bosko Obradovic and Marinika Tepic and Miroslav Aleksic. Stop dealing with the kids. Get into the protection of all children of Serbia. Stand in the protection of all those who are our future, you have a moral obligation. How involved you are and how this is just how you will protect yourself or try to protect yourself from what's called the law and what's called the rule of law, you will not succeed by attacking children because the state will do its job to the end and because the state will eventually investigate whether or not it was or Marinika Tepic, it was Dragan Djilas, it was Bosko Obradovic, to investigate whether and in one possible way one of you has ties to the mafia structures that are being arrested, which will be arrested, and I am quite sure that the state will continue to do so. It's not a dispute, we've already said that, and in the beginning, someone in the state structure is certainly involved. This someone who is called, by name and last name, whatever political option they belong to, will be brought to justice because this is a legal state, because this is a secure state and because this country is run by someone worthy of Serbia in which we will be raising our children tomorrow, which is Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3092	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3093	Dear People's MPs, I would fully agree with the words of the head of the parliamentary group, Mr Martinovic, who explained it in the best way possible. I listened to all the speakers, but I think the way Mr. Martinovic gave the authentic interpretation of the two members of the law is really the best possible. I would refer to something that was current in the congregation yesterday and today, as regards Mr. Shaip Camberi's move. I have also read the translation of his presentation in Serbian and indeed with the essence of what he has stated here I absolutely cannot agree, as most of you or all of us probably do here, but there are some other elements here. I don't think anyone should argue with the right and that it's completely wrong to go into controversy about how some people are going to call themselves and correct him, or to impose a proper terminology on him because it's a turn on a completely wrong track. It is then something which, first of all, causes the uninformed public to feel sorry for those who are, for God's sake, oppressed, so you see them being so oppressed that they don't even give them what they're called, but they call them in a different, uglier way, which is unacceptable to them. I think entering the controversy on that subject is completely wrong. After all, Albanians are not the only people in the former Yugoslavia who have repeatedly changed the name, or determined what they will call themselves. We too have very close peoples who speak almost the same language as we, who have changed the name of their national identity several times since 1945. We've always accepted that. I think it's the most honest approach to things. Just let people call themselves what they think they should be called, and ours is to accept it and move on, to discuss other issues that are incomplete, not to keep going back to what someone's name is. If you start that controversy in front of someone who is completely impartial, he will always be on the side of the one who belongs to that people and claims to be called what it is called, not on your side and you who claim to be called something different. I was born and lived in Kosovo. Here some have repeatedly pointed out that they were born and lived in Kosovo and as if they had some deed on the matter. Since I am many years old, I have lived in Kosovo longer than those who wave a deed. I know exactly how history of each other's titled Serbs and Albanians went, and where it came from, with the Serbs, the term Shipari. The Albanians have a good excuse. They believe that in a period when they were not national enough, the term on the Serbian side was used for them in an ugly sense. That's why they don't want us to refer to them that way. I don't mind. It's their will. Let them say they want to be called, not just them, but anyone else, we'll call them what they want to say. As far as translation is concerned. It's another trap that skilled politician Shaip Cambery introduced us to. He knows exactly that this assembly has not had an interpreter since 2010. That's what he used. He did that political trick. We shouldn't be mad at him. In politics, not all moves are politically correct. Politicians have the right to everything, including politically incorrect moves, as was his. That move has achieved its goal. It's the one who didn't get ready for such a move. It's our fault that we're not prepared for any possibility. You know why we're guilty and where it comes from? This stems from decades-long underestimation of the Albanian political elite by Serbs. We Serbs both in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and after World War II constantly underestimate the Albanian political elite, overestimate ourselves, and then these things surprise us. That is why we have come to the situation that, if we look back decades ago, compared to the Albanian national minority, we have lost a lot of things. In many things they won. That's why we stand before a certain defeat. Because all the time, all five, 60, 70 years, we underestimated the Albanian national minority and their political leadership. I'm not saying Mr. Shaip Cambery is right. He's wrong, but he's a skilled and wise politician who took advantage of the opportunity and made a completely incorrect political move that we weren't prepared for. And if we are a country in which both Hungarian and Albanian and other national minorities live, we must in this House at any time have an interpreter for both Hungarian and Albanian for both Russian and for each other language. We haven't had a translator since 2010, so that's our shame and shame. That shouldn't have happened to us. The man knew well, saw an empty goal, dumped the ball. We get angry now, we drill into the chest. It's nothing. Please, when it comes to relations with Albanians, to deal with the essence, to regulate the status of the Serb people in KIM, to see what can be saved when it comes to our national interest and our national issue. Don't let the international community entertain name issues, whether they're Shiparians, Albanians, Sceptarians or something else. That question doesn't matter, and that question should be put forward by ad act. One more thing. I resent a certain violation of the Rules of Procedure yesterday. One MP reacted in a tone in which I now respond on this matter, and then an authorised representative of the SPS replicated to him. Replicated, where the MP didn't mention the SPS, or her personally. The MP made remarks to the Serbian Parliament, the bodies of the Assembly, the secretariat of the Assembly. I do not see that an authorised representative of the SPS has been invited to respond to situations when one of the MPs makes remarks to the authorities of the Assembly. I consider it an abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, I remember perfectly well that you gave me no right to the replica when I first asked for the right to reply, and we talked about the composition of international parliamentary organisations. You had a nonstop light on from here. You said, "Let's move on." We cannot treat MPs from different parliamentary groups in different ways. It's about that question. One more. Yesterday we had a great document, an agreement with Macedonia. We had a great document, but no one noticed and no one pointed out that developing good relations between Serbia and Macedonia is a thorn in some neighbouring countries. We recently had a reaction from Bulgaria's foreign minister, who reacted sharply due to the possibility of introducing a university learning of Serbian language in Macedonia. This best says that the policy that Serbia is leading in the region, and it concerns countries that are not part of the EU, which are gathered through Schengen or the mini Schengen initiative, is the best possible policy. Our approach to northern Macedonia, i.e. their approach to the people, now located in the Western Balkans outside the EU, is an extremely good thing, and I say that this poor reaction by the Bulgarian Foreign Minister who criticised the possibility of learning Serbian in Macedonia is a sign that we are on the right track on this issue. You know, if you look at what language citizens in the Western Balkans speak, most people speak Serbian, understand Serbian or speak a language that is close to Serbian. If Northern Macedonia wants some kind of integration, or approaching through free exchange of people, goods, capital, so it is natural for one who knows Serbian to have some advantage, because Serbs make most, as in the former Soviet Union, one who knows Russian is in favour, as in most world one who knows English is in advantage. So, that statement by Prime Minister Zaev, who came across such a great condemnation, I think she should have come across some attention in Serbia. Because we don't mind if Romania or Ukraine or anywhere else decides to learn Bulgarian academically, as far as we're concerned, what we're interested in. However, the Bulgarian minister says that makedonism is the fiction of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3094	Mr. Bandur, can I just give you a very warm and kind attention that other than the first two minutes you've spoken about, nothing else you've said has anything to do with the points of the agenda. You've been talking for 12 minutes, I didn't mean to interrupt. Please, makedonisms have nothing to do with authentic interpretation. That's what I'm telling you because you're very critical of others. Since you're forcing me to apply the Rules of Procedure, I'm warning you not to speak out of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3095	Dear Chairman, you are not often here, so you do not hear what others say. Few people talking about the agenda, and what I'm talking about today was on the agenda yesterday, the Serbia-Macedonia Agreement...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3096	People's MP, yesterday was yesterday, today is today. I would ask you, you are not here to judge how other MPs will behave. Secondly, you are a member of a parliamentary group in which there is order and who registers for the word and who reports for the breach of Rules of Procedure and replicas, etc. I don't want to go into these questions, but please, you've now run a few topics around which to report, and some others have already answered for the replica. You know I've turned my attention that the vote will be around 4:00 p.m. I don't see the need for you to talk today about something that was on the agenda yesterday, and if you have to, then finish it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3097	No, I don't have to. I don't have to do anything, you say. You have to. I didn't get the job of talking about anything. I'm saying what I feel I should say at a certain point. So are we gonna talk about corruption and crime, what is everybody talking about? Everyone talked about it today, and everyone felt the need to look back on the subject. Here, let me say something on the subject. So when someone is admitted to the police to work or to the prison service as a guard or even as a security guard at the airport, they do the strictest security checks. I know a case from Nis where a man lost his job at the airport just because the police in some routine night control found that bottle opener with a knife in her pocket. They're so strict security checks. I am now asking – how is it possible that a person in Serbia who, I do not know, has passed these security checks, but who has been doing something for a very long time that was obviously not in line with the law and its powers and who, in the end, seems to have participated in the network of listening to the president of the Republic and his family? Apparently, it also endangered the security of both the president and the family, and thus the state. How is it possible that someone who comes to such high-ranking functions will not be checked and monitored for what is done over ordinary prison guards or ordinary cops who do their job, to say the simplest, simplest job? How can “Partizan, ” or its fans be privileged, even in 2020? They had two games in Nis, one June, one October. The city emergency headquarters isn't asking if they can or can't attend these games. They simply, by someone's will, traveled to Nis by someone's approval. When it comes to vaccines, we all thank Russia now and say that Russia's extraordinary amount of its vaccines separates for us the result of good relations between the two countries and the two peoples. Yes, that's true, but let's remember that this is a situation where Russia needs us. They need us and they separate from their mouths, as the people would say, and give us, because the percentage of vaccines in Russia is nowhere near the percentage of vaccines in Serbia. And not just us, they give the whole world, but they give Serbia, or I would say, a percentage of the population, most of all Serbia. I'm not saying that we should give it back to them and we're too small to get it back to the great Russia, in a way, but hopefully we'll remember it or at least we'll remember it for a while. Because, in July, Russian spit on national media, those who are now in line to accept Sputnik V also stood out. I wanted to point out that too and point out that yesterday was seven years since the murder of Vuk Stojiljkovic in Nis, a guy who was slaughtered in St. Sava Square. A murder that wasn't characterized as a cruel and serious crime but only as a murder, that not all the helpers covered by the investigation and trial and that something similar happened in Nis recently, that a certain group of criminals knocked on someone's door, solved and that not all the participants covered again by the investigation and the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the police. I ask you from this place to seriousise all those involved in the investigations, to do it extremely professionally, to do it extremely correctly, extremely carefully and responsibly, because the witness has a lot, the people know everything. That someone's trying to hide, hide, get out of the investigation, etc., I don't think they'll last much longer. I'm asking you on behalf of Nisli, and you know that Nishels were very concerned when there was a recent car accident at the Median Boulevard, because there is a certain mistrust with certain institutions in the city that need to be dealt with in determining justice. All of us here today spit on the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3098	Mr. Bangur, I can only ask you to bring an end to this because we...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3099	Here, I'm bringing the end. Since we're all criticizing the D.A. today, okay, but let's do something to change that. As it is possible that a member of the State's Council of Prosecutors is issuing an apartment to a criminal, Kobajagi came for the rent, so he joined a colleague who also works in the municipal prosecutor's office. So where did they meet? Did they meet over the ad? How come the D.A., a member of the State Council and a criminal finds this guy betraying his apartment? It's too transparent, too transparent a story. Such people must leave their positions because the Serbian public does not want to see such people in their places anymore, and we are the ones who can change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-11-0.u3100	Thank you. After reporting for the replica of Snezana Paunovic, I will not give her the replica, I have the right to assess it, because it is from my party so she must not be angry with me. Anyway, I'd really be begging if we didn't cause replicas without need. Since we said there was a vote at 4:00 p.m., there are no more registered MPs. Proposers do not appear, so I am concluding a principled search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 4 and 5 of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Social Card Bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure in voting day to decide only on the draft law in general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 11 February 2021, starting at 16.03 p.m. as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the electronic system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 163 MPs are present in the hall at the moment, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. We move to point 1 - Proposal for a social card law. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I'm putting the bill on the social card bill in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 169 for – 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill on the social map. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the agenda, I remind you that under Article 105(3), point 6. The Constitution, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. We're moving to agenda two. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotto on co-operation in the area of defence, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating migrant smuggling, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total – 175, for – 174, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Before we move to the vote, I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a review of the proposal for authentic interpretation in principle, and since the proposals for authentic interpretations have not been submitted by the amendment of the National Assembly, as set out in Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on proposals for authentic interpretation in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2 paragraph 1 point 3 of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, with a correction in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total – 175, for – 174, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted a proposal for authentic interpretation. We're moving to agenda five. I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 64(1). The law of higher education, with a correction in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 175, for – 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for authentic interpretation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. I just want to remind you that we'll probably have another session by the end of the extraordinary session, probably February 23rd. I also want to congratulate all of you, all of us and all of Serbia's citizens on the coming State Day. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
