ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4946	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Vice President, fellow Members and fellow MPs, before I ask my parliamentary question and ask for an answer to it, I would like to express my satisfaction and satisfaction on behalf of the MP group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasant Party because in our country there is a Sheikh Naser bin Hamad, son of King Bahrain. Our party's leader, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, has repeatedly pointed out, and this is also in our party's programme acts, on the need to connect Serbia's state with the Muslim world. So we believe that in these markets as former Yugoslavia and now as Serbia our companies are traditionally present, that our products are recognised in these markets as high-quality and when it comes to food exports and when it comes to the dedicated industry. What makes me particularly happy is that the relationship between our country and the Kingdom of Bahrain will be raised to that highest diplomatic level, that we will have our embassy in Manama and that the Kingdom of Bahrain will open its embassy here in Belgrade. As far as questions are concerned, I refer it to the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure – when will damages and slides on the Master's Road Prepolje – Brodarevo – Bijelo Polje be resolved? It's the state road of First Order number 23, where we have a narrowing due to damage to the Gracanica settlement and the Zavinogradje village. The way it looks, I'll show it now. So we've got major damage. The road is very frequent, especially in the summer months, because it's a highway heading for the sea. The town of Brodarevo is nearby. It's a threat, unless this damage is resolved, that the citizens of the ship's and mosquitoes end should be cut off from the Prepolje, especially now that we have a pandemic of the coronary virus. What happens if it stops this time? If we don't resuscitate it now, we're going to get into summer, we're going to enter the tourist season, we're supposed to let these measures go, so, when we have endless columns of trucks and small cars, there's a big danger that there will be potential car accidents here. I know that Minister Tomislav Momirovic is very busy, that he has a lot of work, that he is very active, it is noted, but these are the things that the ministry and the public business of Serbia must pay attention to, and this must be included in the list of priorities when it comes to solving the problem. Also, I want to point out that we have a problem when it comes to the way of Prepolje-appuca-Pljevi. That's the way line number 29. The presidents of the local communities of Brodarevo, Apple and Stone Gora asked me, here's what it looks like, to ask this question to the ministry today. So this is where both traffic lanes are compromised. The road leads to Pljevlje and threatens, too, the danger of the citizens of these villages being cut off from Prijepolje. I would like to point out that I am very pleased and to commend the procedure of the President of the State, Alexander Vukic, who promised the President of the Municipality of Sjenica certain assistance when it comes to the restoration of the construction of new local roads. All the problems we have, when it comes to the village, when it comes to demographics, when it comes to economic development, I will intertwine across the road infrastructure. The moment our villages, when our settlements, especially from the edges of our country where I come from, means from the Sandzak region, have a good travel infrastructure, we won't have migration, we'll have investments and we won't have a problem when it comes to unemployment. I would call on this government, a resolute ministry, that this package of assistance promised by the Sjesniki is being crossed into other Sandzak municipalities, as well as other municipalities when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, such as the Svrlig municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4947	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Amos Ujhelji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4948	Thank you very much. The Honorable President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians supported the rebalancing of the 2020 budget and the 2021 budget, as they were drawn up to create a good basis for curbing the pandemic caused by the coronary virus and aid to the economy. The global pandemic, unfortunately, is not finished yet. It is very important that fiscal policy continues to focus on the private sector and continue to reduce the overall tax burden on labour, which further relieves the economy, i.e. increasing the competitiveness of the private sector and retaining existing jobs. Thanks to the macroeconomic and fiscal stability achieved in the previous year, the Republic of Serbia had plenty of room for monetary and fiscal measures to help economies mitigate the negative effects of the pandemic. A comprehensive package of measures was envisaged to help businesses and whose positive effects were reflected in macroeconomic indicators. The total value of the aid package for the economy and the population was around 12.5% of GDP. We all know that the impact of the pandemic on the tourism sector is enormous. As a result of the epidemic, many countries have imposed restrictions on travel, which has put travel organisers in a very difficult position. Already booked trips had to be delayed or, worst case scenario, canceled. Tourist organizations say they're spending their last reserves. If global travel restrictions remain in place, thousands of people will lose their jobs. That is why we particularly welcomed the government's proposal to pay every single hotel 350 euros per bed and 150 euros per room. I don't think it's too much to say that travel agencies and tourist workers are one of the biggest losers, because of the pandemic, along with traffic employees, guides and rental companies. Aid through salaries for employees, as well as for all other activities, with the addition of one minimum profit, meant a lot to everyone. However, if we consider that at a global level, even at a local level, the reduction in the size of business was about 85% to 90%, then I think it is necessary to further help the tourism sector. All these problems, caused by the pandemic, have also been caused by problems with the renewal of the tour operator's business license, by limiting the number of policies issued, as well as by multiple increases in insurance policy prices by insurance companies. The situation is currently such that out of 400 tour operators, from the beginning of the pandemic, who were licensed to work, there are only around 110 at the moment, which provided these conditions. I am sure that the vast majority of agencies still want to continue their work, but for this it is necessary to obtain conditions, primarily by changing the rules on guarantees, and then under the auspices of the government, or the competent ministry, negotiating with insurance companies and fair conditions for smooth work. If this problem is not resolved and the state register will lose significant tax revenue. The question is, does the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications plan to amend the Guarantee Regulation, in order to address insurance problems, i.e. what measures are planned by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, the Ministry of Finance, to help the tourism sector, which would help alleviate the negative economic effects of the pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4949	Thank you. MP Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4950	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I believe that most Serbian citizens, at this moment of ours, their legitimately elected representatives, expect us to refer the initiative, or ask the government a question, based on yesterday's statement by the Prime Minister of Montenegro. Actually, I talked about it a few days ago. That was first said by Dritan Abazovic, and then through Krivokapic, he spoke again yesterday, during yesterday's day, Dritan Abazovic. Of course we will not ask that question, not because we are weak and because we are afraid, it is not something that is unexpected, we will not ask that question and ask the government's initiative, nor the President of the Republic, because we know how difficult it is to build good regional relations, and how easy it is to break down and tighten relations in the region. We do not want to stand in the way of politics led by the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is peace and stability, prosperity, co-operation. But it is simply amazing that during yesterday's statement, someone who is prime minister and, say, in 2006, if you remember the president, during a referendum, whether Montenegro should remain in the Serbia-Montenegro community, voted for Montenegro to remain in the Serbia-Montenegro community. But we are not interested in the government in Montenegro, we are interested in the position of the rights and freedom of Serbs in Montenegro, which is 29%, I hope more, after the census that will be implemented and we are interested in the status and property of the SPC. My question, in fact, is the issue of the parliamentary group of SPS and JS, which we want to ask today, is actually addressed to you, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and here's what this is about. Again, through the public, we have been informed that representatives of the European Parliament have drawn up some precise plan, that they will talk phasely with the heads of the parliamentary groups, and everything related to inter-party dialogue. Also, through the media, they also mentioned the European Parliament's resolution, welcomed how we want our determination and commitment to continue inter-party dialogue, I don't know what they thought, probably to represent some savages, in their opinion, so we don't want communication and we don't want constructive dialogue. There's no reason to be hailed. As for the European Parliament's resolution, we have a lot to tell them, and that's what we'll tell them when they come to Serbia. Our question is, do you even have their phase and precise schedule, when it comes to talking to the heads of the parliamentary groups? Because, you know, the heads of Parliament, in this House, do their job responsibly, seriously and devotedly, and it would be correct for them to tell us the dates in time, when they imagined they were organizing those talks. We do not want anyone, anything to impose on us, especially European Parliamentarians, to be neither our mom nor dad, and we very much want to talk, we have much to tell them when it comes to inter-party dialogue, and when it comes to electoral conditions, but above all when it comes to a hypocritical resolution adopted by the European Parliament. On the other hand, I think it is good that they have performed with this attitude, because with this attitude, they are sending a message to this one, as they have called themselves, it is not my dictionary, but they have called themselves the "quasi opposition" and "elite opposition", they have called themselves "a stew of opposition" and a pack, so for cultural reasons I will not use it again, because all the time, it is the part of the opposition, which allegedly wants to talk to European parliamentarians, they don't really want to talk, they want to pressure through European parliamentarians on Serbia, it is quite clear and that they try, and here I would like to cheat, to try again, without a choice to come to power and privilege, but this is a clear message to them, that you, in fact, as the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are the one that disabling and that promotes inter-party dialogue. As far as we know, you have offered European parliamentarians that the inter-party dialogue has already begun in early March of the month. Well, please, just that if you have information, answer our question, is there at all, how did they formulate very precise, phase-wise, meetings with the heads of Parliament groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4951	Thank you. Just what Gjorge said, you could hear in the media, that representatives of the European Parliament announced that in the next two months they would have this preparatory phase, which includes talks with all parliamentary groups, with the Serbian government and with opposition parties, but I would like to remind myself that I suggested it on March 1st, when we had this video conference, and I suggested that dialogue begin in that week, from March 15th to 18th. But they weren't ready for it. So I want you all to know that this is about their plan, that it practically doesn't take much time, but it's important to do this preparatory phase. As far as we're concerned, I have many parties that have come forward for this inter-party dialogue, and there are parties who want to participate in the dialogue, without representatives of the International Community, so not waiting for what will happen at these meetings, representatives of the European Parliament. We will certainly launch talks with those political parties, who want to make their remarks and their proposals, but not in the presence of representatives of any other state, or international community. Let's move on, MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4952	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is now about 80 years from the criminal and Nazi bombing of Belgrade and the bombing of our country. What is symbolic, today after 80 years, is to remember all of us here and our citizens, how much one country can only cost the inseriousness and lack of leadership of politicians and leaders of a country, how important stability is to us in this time and how important it is that President Aleksandar Vukic is constantly talking about how important stability in the country and regional stability is for the progress and modernisation of our people. Within a few days, the Purgatory Government and the Pucist General Staff entered state planes after March 27th and left their people, left their armies and left their country. It is an interesting fact that 40% of the military forces, then still the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, had nothing to do with that general staff, and that reminds us that we have to be careful and we have to take great care that we respect the will of the citizens, that this will must be respected by every institution and every institution in our country, especially in the time in which we live, which is equally turbulent. I'm sure these challenges that our country and our country and our people have had since that year 1941, and even in previous years, nothing is too different today. There are a lot of those in the region, all over the world who do not want Serbia well, who are not comfortable with Serbia having a free leader and a free president to whom they honor and respect, today all the world media and all the serious states in terms of preserving the health system, preserving people's lives, preserving the economy. Serbia has become a clear and good example today. What happened 80 years ago speaks of how little it takes to light a fire and how little it takes to reach what happened in those war years, to civil war and to kill brothers among them, so, the same people, in fact, that ended in the break of the Yugoslav army in the country on May 15th after the Bosnian gogoth. This reminds us to be together today, which also reminds us of this public opinion survey shown by IPSOS the other day, which shows that President Vukic and SNS have about 60% of the stable support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that everything that President Aleksandar Vucic is doing in the area of country development and infrastructure construction should be supported and defended. My question, of course, concerns the competent state authorities, concerns the prosecution, concerns the judicial authorities, because we in the SNS are very concerned that the elements of the domestic political scene, I think the same ones, who, if, God forbid something bad happened in our country or region, would just move into their planes, they would not move to the state, but would move to their own planes that they own, because over the past few years, they have shown that only government and personal wealth are mostly of priority interest to them and that Serbia and that protecting our people and the Republic of Serbia's national interests were never a priority, nor were they part of any ideology and politics. I therefore request and ask all state authorities to act quickly and effectively on all those affairs concerning the theft of national and national couples, especially those concerning 53 accounts and 69m euros, which is the previous regime and its leaders who have moved, headed by Dragan Gilas around the world, on four continents that are certainly not earned by honest work and through some honest private affairs and private and entrepreneurial initiatives. Of course, under the urgent investigation and we expect an effective investigation and results in the attempt to eliminate President Aleksandr Vukic, who represents a pillar of stability of the country, a pillar of stability of the entire region, and refers to a combined, or joint conspiracy by certain politicians, drug clans and mafias in the Republic of Serbia, aimed at removing Alexander Vukic and stopping Serbia's development and modernisation. I hope that this investigation and the result of this investigation will come as soon as possible, because it is in the interest of our people, it is in the interest of our citizens, to continue with our development policy, to continue with our policy of building this country. By building this region, Vukic has shown everyone that this region and that our country, in fact, can and can be recognised by even Croatians. The other day in the evening list, you have one text that, it's very rare, I don't think that in the past 30 years, there has been such a text saying that Vukic is definitely a political leader of this region, that he is a leader and represents a personification of the stability of this region by giving opportunity to all business people and people from all over the region to come in and vaccinate in Serbia, by offering hands and showing the whole world how small a country, but a free country, led by a free president, can be a country that gathers countries and peoples around him and who is a pillar of modernization and, of course, progress. After these 80 years, we will continue our tradition of fighting and growing the heritage of anti-fascism, anti-Semitism and fighting for national identity and protection of cultural, historical and religious heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4953	Since no one is answering any more, I would like to inform you that the session has been prevented from being attended by MP George Komlenski. We're continuing our work. We move to a unique search on the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings are invited to attend Tomislav Momirović, Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure and Enes Buhic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since the proposer's representative has not arrived yet, before I set a break, I just want to let you know that we're going to be working on this law today, tomorrow, on the first law in particular, on the list and voting. The day after tomorrow is the new session to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. For the next week, I just signed an appointment for the next session. If we choose, and I suppose we will, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, he takes an oath at the Special Session, so Tuesday we would have the oath of President of the Supreme Cassation Court. It'll be the third special session Tuesday at 10:00. After that, we would continue with the 7th session of the First Regular Session, where there will be staff topics, a decision on the termination of the office of the public prosecutor in Smederev and a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office and several decisions concerning the composition of delegations of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association and members of the Committee. That would be Tuesday and Wednesday. We'll have a new session Thursday after the energy ministry laws. I'm saying this because, as you know, we're holding a session by respecting regular procedures. It all depends when the law reaches the Assembly. The law when it reaches the congregation must be in the congregation for 15 days to arrive on the agenda. So, these energy laws don't come for Tuesday's agenda, they're coming for Thursday, and we have to work on those points Thursday because we have a large number of finance laws waiting for us there Sunday. We'd start Thursday, and if there was an amendment, then we'd continue on that Tuesday. Since there's no proposing representative, I'm taking a break until 12:00. At 1200 hours, we'll continue our work. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I would like to welcome the representative of promoter Tomislav Momirovic, minister of construction, traffic and infrastructure. Since we've opened a unique search, I'm giving my word to the motionary's representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4955	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the esteemed representatives of the people, dear friends, I would first like to apologize to you for a small misunderstanding. Unfortunately, we had some unscheduled problems this morning at the construction of one of the tunnels on the Preljina-Požega section, and it really required my presence. Also, we have a visit from the Montenegrin Minister of Spatial Planning and I understand that professional services have reached agreement that the National Assembly, that this proposal, defending the bill can be moved or predicted at 12 o'clock. Of course, addressing members of the government in front of this house and before you as MPs absolutely has a priority, so I'm not saying this as my excuse, but if you can accept it as an apology, because there really isn't any bad intentions that went the other way, except in that direction to do the best I can in the given circumstances for the Republic of Serbia. I would move immediately on to this Agreement which has a broader meaning than the Agreement itself which regulates. It is an agreement on the maintenance of 11 bridges on the Drina River between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of BiH. If you'll excuse me, we are, of course, the government that was in charge and the minister before me has clearly and precisely regulated it, but I would like to give one broader context that covers this area. As you know, since the President of the Republic has implemented fiscal consolidation, when it came to the head of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the recovery of our public finances has begun, many more have started to invest in infrastructure, the country has received a new step that has led today to a drastically different economic situation than it was seven, eight years ago. I don't want to talk, we've said so many times, what unemployment was then, what unemployment is now, what was the average wage, it was a little over 300 euros, today it's more than 500 euros. Today, from the authority of my ministry, we are only working on 12 projects, highways and strategic routes in road infrastructure. There are five bypasses on which we are actively working and our goal and task is to start construction by the end of the year to work on eight highways. Let me look again at the thing that has been said many times here, always with one dose of political sensitivity, because we really have only positive intentions when we say that we cannot, when the President of the Republic says so - we cannot leave this economic and medical crisis alone, or we cannot get out of this crisis if the region does not start with us. We have worked very hard to establish communications in the previous period, and our policy, or the policy of the President of the Republic, is called the Mini Schengen, which refers to eliminating all administrative barriers, facilitating all economic procedures for goods, for communication between people... We're trying to raise this whole story to a level so that we can all have economic benefits from this joint business. For us, Montenegro and BiH are primarily strategically important countries, we have the biggest economic co-operation, the biggest frequency of people is with these republics and this Agreement. The law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and BiH on the maintenance and reconstruction of bridges is just another step to make all together realistic steps forward to the joy of our citizens and our two republics. Thank you very much and I hope you will vote to confirm this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4956	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4957	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us a law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and BiH on the maintenance of bridges. Bridges are worth that pragmatic benefit of joining the two shores, winning and success over the obstacle, whether it's a river or some other valley that prevents normal communication. From the smallest bridge or casserole to those magnificent bridges that admire human civilization through history, but today bridges next to this pragmatic role important to man, people also have their own cultural-civilization role of combining diversity. All bridges, both in the micro and in the macro world, and the one on the small stream and those connecting the continents, are something that preys on the attention of the human species, which even many times in art, or literature, has its place and has it today. All these bridges are important, and bridges with neighbors are the most important bridges a man can have. Therefore, with special attention today, we MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party are taking part in this debate, certainly giving full support that this law confirms this agreement so that both sides can do what is necessary to make important bridges, important cups, which connect Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in fact, are maintained as planned and perform their and traffic, but also all of the cultural civilization's role. It is not by no chance that the bridge, i.e. on Drina kapria, was the motive and theme of Nobel laureate Andric, and that in this way, I can say, not only the occupancy but actually, it has just won the place it deserves, although today we have various controversial interpretations from the novel itself, but in no way lessens the meaning of the novel, and especially the importance of the motive and topic itself, i.e. I'll go to Drina first. Of course, motive and theme have treated each other time, but we are witnesses today, deep down in the 21st century, as well as mussels on the Drina and all the other chakras and all the other bridges on the Drina and the Drina itself are much more than rivers, much more than bridges and much more than keporium. That is why I am pleased with the country's commitment through this law, but also through everything that is taken to bridge differences, bridge and overcome obstacles to various relations, something which is nevertheless the headquarters of this country's policy and something that despite the beatings of strong, lateral and different winds, something that survives and something that does not give up. No matter how many times the phenomenon of the neighbor, the phenomenon of the neighbor is treated, described, discussed in politics, literature and other relations, but it's such an inspiring concept and phenomenon, inspiringly inexhaustible, and that's why I want this opportunity to point out the importance of bridges, especially bridges towards neighbors, to throw some more light. It's written in sacred books that sometimes a neighbor can be more important or the neighbor is closer than the next brother. More specifically, a neighbor is more important than a further brother. It's a value and an axiom that deserves to be brought back to life again and again and again and again. Of course, we can talk romantically in the most positive way about all phenomena, all the challenges, including what today is our theme, but only if we manage to strike a balance between what is ideal, idealistic, desirable, what we strive for, what we can also sing and talk about both artistic and political, choosing words on the one hand and on the other, still face what is a real picture, if not always, at least occasionally or more precisely, whoever wants to raise a good bridge will never succeed unless they are aware of the danger of what separates the two shores. So, the Neimari Mimar Sinan and Hajrudin who built bridges and the one on Drina and the one on Mostar, you know how long it was built on the Drina Cupria, of course not because they didn't have money or because the contractors didn't meet their contractual obligations, but because Drina was so wavy and dangerous and she made problems for the builders. Therefore, a good designer must respect the currents of Drina and every other Drina and any other force that acts against the bridge, which wants to prevent construction, which wants to deepen the gap between the two shores and prevent the merger of those two shores. Therefore, good policy, good work, real course and real discourse should be at that balance, that the ideal of beauty challenges the building of the bridge and in its use and in its artistic architectural and any other sense should not ignore the static dangers that threaten to threaten the foundations of the bearing pillars and the bearing rates of its bridge, i.e. before that. Of course, that in Andric too, Drina was a symbol like Mupria, and that he was just out of his vision artistically uncut quality, ideally always for the polemics, depending on which angle he looked at, but definitely managed to give meaning to the bridge and turkeys as no one had ever done in these areas, which is for every praise and every respect. I'm not sure that all of us readers are in enough quality or proper way to understand the message before, but we have often looked in descriptive details sometimes of ideological choices, which is very dangerous for every policy when its ideology is based on certain artistic observations. The example is much through human history, leading to the design of a serious policy based on free artistic observations, illustrations and metaphors. Of course, for every smart one of us, this is a lesson that will always be ahead of us, and smart people will be able to get serious messages and serious lessons out of it. So if we want history to be our teacher, although I am not one of those who admits that history is the main teacher or only, especially not the only teacher, history is one of the teachers, but like all teachers never achieve the results equally among all students, because it is a lot of examples that a good student learns more from a bad teacher than a good teacher, which means that a student is more important than a teacher and that a student is actually the one who chooses how much, when and how to learn. That is why our role as a student and bearer of responsibility and scribe of our own destiny, and especially the fates of our children, is more important than the teacher herself, but also than such a teacher, however controversial, which is called history, a smart student will learn very much. But what doesn't leave me room for this speech today to end exclusively in a tone of romantic fascination that isn't always about motive and theme, but perhaps more about my wishes and hopes, because we all end up profiling our attitudes and their own words much more towards their own desires than the objective situation, however risky it is. I do not do it unconsciously, although I am a supporter of beauty and beauty, although I am raised and educated in the spirit of seeking better and better, and even when there is less, I try to put it first because I am aware that the word is much more important than we think, that its effects and reflections are much stronger than we often believe when we say it, because in fact, from both the Bible and the Koranic and all other attitudes, the word is intact. The word precedes the good deed, and therefore people are divided into two species, into good and bad, and their identity is, above all, different by that, and the first thing you will identify them or recognize is the one that is often heard in the people – talk about seeing who you are. It is not said – say it and see who you are, it is not said, nor – say your name and name to see who you are, but say whatever you are, to see who you are, for nothing like a language can reveal you or confirm you. The language says everything, no matter how much we want to hide and cover, no matter how much we want our words to always present ourselves in the most beautiful image and manner. Yet language gives away both our cultural and our ethical and our educational and our every other aspect, the aspect of our personality, our identity and our quality. So, listening to the public discussion, both in this Parliament and in the media, I have a feeling, and I have no explanation and I have no logic, or a basis for logic to understand why. I have a feeling that Drina's coming up more than normal, that Drina's been wavy lately, like some dams are going on purpose, so she's making unnecessary waves and aggression of Drina. It was kind of logical for me that right after all the wars, the crimes that took place in the 1990s, that immediately after that, while Drina was bloody, to be restless, to be aggressive, but now, after more than two decades, after two decades, it was either two decades straight or expected that Drina would calm down, that she wouldn't be so aggressive and wavy, especially if she didn't wake up artificially. I can't understand all sorts of speakers, mostly politicians, who are off topic, off-the-book, sometimes racing about how to make that Drina a drop of redness or even more exciting. Come on, and past the subject, how to charm Srebrenica, how to touch those painful wounds, how to get some petty political point, how we can and can do it. I'm trying to find a reason, what's the reason? I can't believe there's so much ignorance, let's not know, but that these people don't understand and how they pretend, that they want to contribute to their country, that they want good to Serbia, but that's the wrong direction for me. Breaking bridges with neighbors or let's maintain them physically, and destroying all other bridges, not only that it's a matter of relations with the neighbor, it's a matter of relationship to yourself and it's not a friendly act. It is either malicious or a fruit of shallow politics, and shallow politics is always harmful to the country in the name it is presented and represented. So who knows which time, when I touch this subject, as you can see, I choose words. Don't you think I could choose hard words? You know as well as I could, I could do it better than most. Don't you think that I could take, and I could pop an arrow, and shoot where it hurts and get some applause, maybe some radical, extreme elements from my electoral body, from my electoral people, so they can tell me -- well done, you go to Belgrade to tell them? And you and they know I can and can, but, as you can see, I won't. Not because I can't and not because I can't, but I won't. Not for you, you know. What I choose not to do for you, I do for myself and my child, because as long as I say this, it's more important to me what my child will learn from my speech as a lesson and as a message of education than some point and some voice that I'm going to get more. That's the difference. So when I talk about crimes, ordinary, unusual, genocide and genocide, I have a special emotional feeling, like all of you, because of the victims, but an extra special emotional feeling because I'm aware of what educational and educational for the future means our observations here on crimes. So I ask you and I suggest that if we fail to cross that line that we have failed so far, unfortunately, most of us here to pass, that we talk about crimes, all crimes, first of all, ethically and phenomenally, not giving it a particular dimension – my crime, your crime, my sacrifice, your sacrifice. As long as we're on that, so low in ethical, spiritual and human level, believe me, that you know who's louder will be heard, who's more numerous, he'll win, he'll vote. It's the cruelty of politics and it's not questionable. But what then and where? That's the key question. That's why today is my inspiration in bridges. We're adopting the Law of Bridges, but let's take a step and make laws, not adopt them, but accept them. They already exist, they're God's, they're human. Human and God's laws will outlive and survive all of our underprivileged, all of mankind's juvenile attitudes of ignorance and misbehavior. In the Law of Bridge Maintenance, we need the resuscitation of both the awakening and God's law that is in us. You know, it's okay, we can race here who's gonna outvote who, but when you're alone, would you want your child to understand crime properly or wrongly? That's what you're asking yourself. Ask your conscience, whatever we are, each of us has a conscience only in someone's sleep, someone's awake. Let's wake her up. We need such bridges and you will see how we will have a relationship with both Bosnia and she with us, and how we will open new pages or new perspectives of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4958	Thank you. Minister Tomislav Momirovic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4959	Dear Dr Zukorlic, I really don't want to rephrase your speech which was extremely correct, quality, human, in the spirit of co-operation and reconciliation, but I'd like to be more inclined to further underline everything you've said, isn't that our policy, didn't the words of the President of the Republic always go in the direction of the community to connect the region? Is it normal that today when you pass between France and Germany you have no boundaries, you feel no boundaries. When you move from Serbia to BiH, you have administrative procedures that are simply amazing from the last century, so long ago. Dear Dr Zukorlic, and I have children, some MPs here may have just come out of a period where they can call themselves children, and yet they fight bravely for the future of their country, take their word, suffer criticism and do not bend. Whether all messages as systems and presidents of the Republic, headed by our country, have always been in the direction – we must be together, both Serbia and BiH, and Serbs, and Bosniaks. It's a common task to look more into the future. Velika Pekic said – we love the land of our children, not our fathers and grandfathers. Let's think about all of us here together whose interests are that we're fighting in this region. Ours aren't. Neither the interests nor the peoples of BiH. We, as Government, have mobilised all forces, both investment, and political, and economic, to get close to people in the region. To every criticism, we have responded to every petty provocation with one humble hand offering. It's not in our interest. We must jointly overcome all differences that are not real, which and if they are objective, the thing is the past, the future is common. Now, in these circumstances when we have the biggest pandemic in modern history, we have to connect, we have to be together. We have someone to stand behind, behind the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, but we also invite people in the region to think about how far the politics of the Republic of Serbia have led. To incredible investments, in road, rail, municipal infrastructure, to the largest number of vaccines in Europe, if we exclude the UK. So far we have brought our policy, and we want BiH to be on that track, and we want to help them inoculate their citizens, and all the other countries in the region, they're all our brothers. I apologize again, it's not about the replica, I want to underline, we need to get out of this together. We have someone behind us to stop, we've done a lot in the past, and all the people here are behind that policy, and I'm sure the results will be even better in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4960	Replica, Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4961	Dear Minister, thank you for pointing this out, for actually encouraging me to complete a thought that I can base on what I said earlier. To you, to the entire parliament, to the public, I confirm here, that I don't believe that the primary policy of this country, which is most visible at its very top, this, I wouldn't be sitting here. So I believe that, and I don't believe that this story, this humane, and the aesthetically set actually has a future. I know that none of this with four MPs here can impose anything, only if we have a majority that shares these values, and I make sure that I have the elements that I believe in every day. Among other things, I will remind you that we have recently signed an agreement, therefore, between the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the SNS, which in the first two members potentiates the preservation and improvement of relations between the Bosniak and Serb people, between Serbia and BiH. So it was accepted by the biggest party, bearer, headquarters party in this country. In fact, these are the foundations of this belief and belief and aspirations but what I have drawn attention to in the previous speech and I am now underlining is that just those who belong to this policy should be more careful in words, because it is very important. So we have an excellent country commitment, a real policy, an effort, I believe in this policy of reconciliation and convergence, and therefore, in fact, I have agreed to be a constructive factor in this assembly, along with my fellow Members of Parliament, precisely because of these beliefs. But I'm not sure that all those who speak and in this House right now support that policy at the very top and also their president. There should be more careful, that we simply don't go into lack of big ideas, sometimes we reach for emotionally easy stories, and they're always the ones that might be the opposite, or jump out of this discourse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4962	Thank you. The word is made by JS President Dragan Markovic Palm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4963	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is a good start, given that it always starts with bridges, and that these bridges are the future of co-operation that hasn't existed in recent years. It was only verbal arguments, which brought nothing to either people or to another, considering that Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks lived in BiH. We have to return those other bridges, those bridges that give us the right to Serbia and BiH want to co-operate but those economic bridges, bridges of culture, sports, that co-operation must be much greater and those three council members argue less about what happened before we can see how we're going to move forward. We must realise that where there are political, ethnic disputes, such territory is not interested in any foreign investor and that very few factories have come to BiH or are open, and without jobs, without economic stability, the citizens living in BiH have the greatest damage. Serbia has shown that it wants to co-operate and we do not share citizens from the former republics in religious, party membership and so on. However, certain jealousy also arises, not only from BiH but also from some other countries because Serbia has economic progress, because Serbia is doing differently when it comes to citizens and what is called the budget's priority. I am so glad that our country gave both BiH and Montenegro and Macedonia vaccines, and when we look at some other countries and other bridges, such as bridges with Montenegro. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbs our grandfathers made these bridges and we as tourists, 80% of the bridges in Montenegro that are being used less and less for road traffic. If there's no road traffic, there's no economic co-operation. And the main reason is jealousy because Serbia is working well and Serbia is the most popular state in international relations, I am sure not only in the Balkans but also in the EU. When it comes to Montenegro and bridges with Montenegro, they were not thin, torn in earlier years but began to break away from Milo Djukanovic and inherited this new government. First, we were expelled from the ambassador, so due to a statement by a Montenegrin minister, it will be removed, of course, we are not entering Montenegro's policy, but the statement may have referred to Serbia. If these former republics so wish to co-operate with Serbia, I am sure there is nothing of this co-operation and will have great economic damage that Serbian citizens will not go to the sea in Montenegro, not when you constantly attack citizens of Serbia. The citizens of Montenegro are good people, but politicians are the ones who fight the people. When we look at the bridges with Croatia, the bridges are broken. There are road bridges that are used poorly, except for transit traffic, but when we look at how many Croatian companies there are in Serbia, and how many Serbians in Croatia, that's one-to-one relationship to the table. I'm sure the biggest loser is Croatia. When I'm at Croatia and those bridges that broke and disappeared, when it comes to economic co-operation, and we have the best geographical position, the biggest culprits are politicians. Now, two politicians, the president of the Croatian government and the president of the Croatian Republic, have now started to argue with each other, but when they exaggerate, they throw it in Serbia. Serbia is not an accomplice to the fight, Serbia wants to co-operate and to put every man's economy and life first. If we were to go back to who's to blame, we could never cooperate with such states, for each one their victims are large and heavy. And we don't have to forget, but we have to move forward. He said Zukorlic, we have to do everything for the kids. I went to see the late Bandic, the mayor of Zagreb, who was mayor for 20 and a few years. When I went there, there was no medium that he didn't wait for me outside his office. Bandic told me – I have to call you every time I open the streets, because when I open a street or asphalt some time, one or two cameras come. They expected me to do rhetoric in the '90s. I didn't mention it. I said – if you were to now conduct a survey of the citizens of Croatia, Macedonia, BiH, Slovenia, Montenegro, if you were to return that unity, I am sure that ordinary people who are not involved in politics would accept, but politics and politicians, for the sake of personal interests and functions, would refuse such proposals. The old Yugoslavia used to have 20 million inhabitants. You had a market of 20 million, that you could drive goods without crossing any boundaries. Today this market is much less for all republics. My call to those politicians, and in particular Krivokapic, who was in some way the bearer of the list, but he did not win there himself, voted, I am sure, and those citizens of Montenegro who call themselves Montenegrins, that he has failed everything and that Serbia-Montenegro is back where they were during Milo, that there is no co-operation. No one can dispute the result that Serbia has. We had four vaccines, when Montenegro had no vaccine, when BiH had no vaccine, when Macedonia had no vaccine, and they were much closer to the EU. Croatia is a member of the EU. It is obvious that they have entered the EU only to show that they are better at something than Serbia, but as time goes by, it is seen who wants to co-operate with the whole world and who does not lead war crimes policies. That's the biggest problem today. The biggest problem is that we fill our heads with kids and tell them something called history. These kids need to know that, to inform themselves, but to show them what the future is. To return to BiH, there are many mixed marriages, Bosniaks and Serbs, Montenegrins and Serbs. In Serbia and BiH, 97% are listening to the same music. For example, I don't want to talk about Safet Isovic and what he was, but there is no wedding in Serbia where there is no song "My dilber where you walk, and you don't take me too". So where do I take you when your hands are in your pocket? I mean politicians. They keep digging up unhealed wounds, etc. So it's all the same, except that faith divides us, and we respect faith, BiH ours, and we respect theirs. The circuit is exactly the same. I often watch some channels where people, when it's their holiday, don't play out of cars for three or four hours, music, etc., so it comes to me, if I'm in the house, and I play alone, because I love music very much. Let's get that time back, play, sing, work together. Serbia has always been the initiator of everything. One time Macedonia was against Serbia, they did not support it. And now Serbia has shown that the Macedonian people are also brotherly people with Serbia, we have given them vaccines. Thank Zayev for allowing Serbs not to pay tolls. It is not much, but it is a symbol of respect, as this year the most tourists from Serbia will go to Greece for sea. I had one experience, they were some students at the Faculty of Pedagogue in Jagodina from a poor family, a student and a student. So sometimes when I meet them in town, I give them something because I met them and their parents. When it was my birthday, they bought me a pair of socks – one sock handed to me by a student and another by a student's sock. It was like they gave me Mercedes. Symbolics. Let's see if there is any symbolism in BiH, Montenegro, Croatia, for co-operation. It doesn't exist. They think politicians will win any election, because they will fight who is the stronger Serb, who is the stronger Bosniak and who is the stronger Croat. Let's not do this policy today in the 21st century. We can't wait for the international community to fight. Wherever the international community intervened, we were all losers. Here I am now, with Europe and the EU, members of the EU Parliament to mediate when it comes to dialogue between the opposition and the authorities in Serbia. Wherever the EU parliamentarians, Brussels, Europe, intervened, we lost some territory. And now what do they want? To take away without a choice two territories in the centre of Serbia, in Belgrade, called the Council of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, parliament. Well, these territories are won in the elections -- you go to elections, citizens give you or don't give you confidence and you enter parliament. So they're delaying our dialogue until June of the month. They don't delay dialogue because it's a real factory and it's not over, it's because opposition people fight every day. They're criticizing the Wolf, saying he's giving away vitamins. Watch out, Wolf gives vitamins, and what do they give? Euro? Yeah, but for yourself. It has never happened in the world that the opposition has opposition. And what do these EU representatives want to convince us? They have a request from the opposition where the opposition gave them last year, it's the same request, and now, it says - let's wait a little. What? To raise children? Those horses can rip their tails out. To grow up a little bit, because they're not mature yet. Because you don't know who's going to be first, who's going to be second, who's third, because they're vain personalities who just watch how to come to power. I want to compete as a former athlete and sportsman, to beat you in the ring. If I lose to you, I'll prepare for the next match. Beat me in the program, beat me in the works. Where's your work? What was it you were doing? And it's a daily topic, and then it's taking out Tanja Fajon and that clipper of her members of the EU Parliament -- rich, Serbia's guilty of something. Why is she guilty? Well, I guess Serbia is working fairly, and the European Parliament is supposed to deliver a list of suspects that have earned so much money in Serbia and based on what? This should be a request from the European Parliament to Serbia, as these people are being discussed. So, dear Minister, you have inherited one continuity of building highways, roads, streets, bridges, etc., and I can tell you that you did well. You're a little bit more upset but "lanzan ambreshen", it's in German "slow, slow". One Vukic can only be in Serbia, not two Vukics. Just one. And to be in good relations with workers, with those who perform works, etc., so that this continuity is realised within the time limit as the agreements, contracts, etc. are signed. We're in a situation where we don't have workers. Guys, we don't have workers, and seven, eight years ago, how many workers were out of work? Here, this year three factories are opening in Jagodina. Germany's Fisher factory, Germany's most powerful factory for the production of screws, has a five-year contract with Mercedes, an Austrian factory, China, etc. We won't have workers. We'll have to import the workers. What is Serbia's destination? What is not Montenegro's destination? Montenegro lives on tourism for four months, what are they going to live on afterwards? I don't know if I've made myself clear enough and what my intention is. I had little tonality going up – down, I hope you understand me, but Unique Serbia supports this proposal agreement. Serbia's economic progress can no longer be stopped. And if he wants to, he can't because they keep opening factories. Look out, the virus is worldwide, and people from other countries where police hours are introduced and where measures are much harder than they are in Serbia, come to Serbia to open factories, because Serbia is a house in the Balkans. It's a lot easier to export to the whole world than it is from another country. Well, they told us -- you know what, you Serbs, introduce Russia's sanctions! If we'd done that, Russia would've totally dumped us, and now those states that advised us to sign contracts are buying Russian vaccines. Imagine. If it wasn't sad, it'd be funny. I must commend President Vukic and Ivica Dacic, as President of Parliament, right now, and the former foreign minister. There are other good ministers, not to mention all of them, but there are visible results. This international policy is very important for the economic development of a country. When you economically strengthen, then you don't have to listen to everything they tell you, they can't pull you by the ear. You've had to listen to it before, because you don't have to retire, you don't have to listen to what's basic. Based on our budget and inflows, you have a gulf and effluent side, it has never happened, but for the last eight to nine years, that the effluent side is intended with priorities, that this effluent side makes prevention when it comes to medicine, we are not a prevention but that the effluent side returns money to the budget. It's the most important thing today. It doesn't matter if you sell a field of 10, 15 hectares, buy a 30 thousand-euro car to drive, and the roof rains on you, but you have that money to invest in something that will buy you three, four cars in five, six years. I've been a businessman since 1980. When I had six trucks I was supposed to buy two more, I sold the BMW 316i and bought the South because I wasn't ashamed to drive, so later, later... That's right, Zukorlich. Are you laughing because it's good or because it's bad? I'm not lying, because if I was lying, I wouldn't win the fifth term with 70% in the city where I live, and in the village where I live, 95% to vote, 3% to invalid ballots, 2% to some other votes, and 90% to me. So, fakes in Serbia can't go away without taking a long time. So I have a very good experience and I know what priorities are today. The house of Serbia, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, has a priority. I'm glad we can talk openly... (President: You bring the end, Mr. Markovic, time has elapsed) I thank you, I do not want to abuse time, given that Mary, a United Serbia official, and not only is she a JS official, she is the champion of Europe in kickbox, 15-year-old representative, vice-sampion of the world and five times declared a sportsman of the city of Kings, and if I should speak no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4964	Thank you for these wonderful words. Minister Tomislav Momirovic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4965	Dear Mr. Markovic, I will really try to be brief. Just a few things I'd like to look back on. Indeed, content exposure. At one point you mentioned - even if someone wanted to. What's the fact he wants. He wants to sway us on this path of economic development. Unfortunately, maybe it's not, maybe it's life, maybe it's not real, maybe there's no support, maybe there's no real support, maybe in reality no one supports us, but everybody drags you down, no one pats you on the shoulder, but everybody wants to pull you back, doesn't give you real support. We are in a situation today that we are the leading country in combating the pandemic in Europe. We are today the country that has the best economic results in Europe. Does everyone like that? Everybody doesn't like it. Do they want to bring us down to some land and bring us back? They want us down and they don't want us to have these results. There are some people who talk - you give jobs to the Chinese, the Turks, the Americans. I don't know if these people see that we don't have any parked construction trucks, how much wages have gone up in the construction sector in the past few years, and we don't have ceramics or carpenters or welders. When I say we don't, of course we do, their salaries have grown significantly, but we have so much work to do that we have three times as many of them as we can get jobs. These are the situations we face in the field. This is economic growth. Our partners who come with us to invest mean only one thing. Do we want to build this infrastructure now, when I say I'm thinking for the next few years and make up for what 50 years for objective or less objective reasons aren't built, or we're going to tell some empty stories and spend another 20 and 30 years. Maybe I think we should wait another 30 years, but the President of the Republic who runs this policy said -- in these few years we have to build all the infrastructure, we have to raise the country's economic standard, we have to come to the level of development of Central European countries. I would have concluded in the end. You've completely said on the line what I think. One is Alexander Wolfie. Some in our party, in our system, didn't understand it, and they went far in that misunderstanding. It began to be bordered not only by adultery, but also by betrayal, which is what is not forgiven in human, moral, or friendly terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4966	Thank you. Before we move on to the next speaker, one announcement about today's work. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the mandated representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia National MP Samir Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4967	"Of all the things that a man in his life instinct lifts and builds, nothing is better and more valuable than bridges in my eyes. They're more important than houses. More sacred than temples. Everyone's and according to every equal, useful, uplifted, always meaningful, in a place where the greatest number of human needs intersects, they are more persistent than other buildings and serve nothing that is secret and evil. "The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, these were the words of Ivo Andric. A well-known novelist and Nobel laureate. He was fascinated by bridges and often wrote about them. Namely, bridges are not just buildings that serve to overcome obstacles, natural or artificial, such as rivers, valleys or roads, bridges connect coasts, but bridges connect cities, connect countries, and most importantly, connect people. Good bridges in law, as well as in a symbolic sense, represent good connections, and that is why it is important to build new bridges, but also to maintain existing ones that have a certain life span. That is why today we have before us a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges. The agreement concerns a total of 11 bridges located at the border between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are two bridges across the Sava River in the town of Sremska Raca, one road, one road-rail. Over the Drina River a total of six bridges from Šepak via Mali Zvornik and Ljubovija to Skelano in Baja Basta. There are three bridges across the river Uvac. Under a bilateral agreement signed by the two states, the Republic of Serbia has pledged to hold and reconstruct all six bridges across the Drina River, and under the same agreement, Bosnia and Herzegovina will hold and reconstruct two bridges across the Sava River and three bridges across the Uvac River. The reconstruction of the mentioned bridges will enable better quality of transport, people and goods and will affect the strengthening of cross-border co-operation. Some of the bridges that were the subject of this Agreement, such as Raca, Šepak and Karakaj, were particularly current at the end of March, when they reported from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina on columns formed at the same border crossings. It is about the mass arrival of Bosnian-Herzegovina citizens in Serbia due to vaccination. This says that bridges among humans are not just concrete, stone, iron. It is also giving Serbia the help it is showing in action these days and helping neighbouring countries to fight the Kovida-19 pandemic. The provided hand of Serbia also builds the most extensive bridges, and this assistance of Serbia hits the foundations of co-operation that will later easily build new roads, bridges and as high-quality relations between the two states. This generous gesture of Serbia has come across the great approval of people in the region and beyond. I think it's the best way Serbia should go. Now to return to the bridges and the topic of the bilateral agreement we are discussing today. Bridges are important, they make it possible to connect states and people. For the people of Sandzak, the bridges on the river Uvac are of great importance. The bridge is especially important at the border crossing of the Uvac. A large number of citizens of Prepolje, Prbolje, Pryboj, Novi Varoshi, Sjenica, Tutina and Novi Pazar cross this bridge daily, whether they are the cause of family ties, schooling, work or any other reason. The maintenance and reconstruction of the bridge will allow better and better quality conditions for transportation of passengers and goods. As I said, bridges are important, their existence allows for the integration of cities, states and people. However, without good roads, bridges mean nothing. One way or another, small will benefit from bridges, if road infrastructure is bad or does not exist at all, and that should be thought about. That is why I use the opportunity and the presence of Minister Momirovic to inform and suggest on behalf of the citizens of Prepolje, somewhat the citizens of Priboj, that there is one route built like Skadar on Bojana. Construction started in 1947, continued in the 1980s, when most of the work was still not finished. This direction, which goes through the canyon of the Milosevic River, is intended for the highway of Prepolje – Sjenica. With its construction, the road would be shorter by nearly 12km, so the citizens of Prepolje to Sjenica, instead of 40km, would cross a road of approximately 17km. Also, it would allow the nearest access to the highway Serbia is building towards Montenegro. The field would thus have the shortest share connected to the key traffic and would not remain in the seal or as a appendix, because in that case the highway would be within reach of the hand. I note that nine tunnels have already been breached, which was also the hardest part of the route, that a large part of the most difficult work has been done and remains to be completed. Please think about it and take the most seriously to complete this project by planning, possibly budgeting for, say, the year 2022. These are direct requests and local self-government of the Prepolje municipality and I am now transferring them on their behalf. Of course, local self-government of the municipality of Prepolje will also officially send a request with the necessary explanation of the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. I hope I've convinced you how important it is for us this time and how valuable it will be for us in the future. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges, which we are discussing today, will contribute to further development and improvement of regional infrastructure, as well as deepening bilateral relations between the two countries. That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will be pleased to support the approval of this agreement in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4968	Thank you. The word has been authorised by a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4969	We are today talking about an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the modernisation and reconstruction and maintenance of 11 bridges. I'm just going to go back to the old days, because you, Minister, are often criticizing us old men that we didn't do it right. That's right, but the maintenance position has always been scarred from all budgets or cities or republics or the Federation. Why? Either there was no money or there was no political will. Today you have the conditions of extraordinary and it is good to return to maintenance as a very important item, just as important as building, especially traffic infrastructure facilities. That's why these 11 bridges, six on the Drina, two on Savi and three down on Uvac. What my colleague said, this part of the road, very important, is a good decision. That's why we, as socialists, will support this law and vote for it. Two remarks related only to the country's current implementation of projects. You just said one thing, you probably meant me. I don't criticise that there are no of our subcontractors, but you must create them. I've been negotiating with foreigners about the realisation of these projects and the Chinese bridge and the Azerbaijani section, and I know how much trouble it is to get on that loan, but we're returning the loan, inserting 50% of our contractors, but you have to have our subcontractors everywhere so they can work, build and maintain it, and give it to you if we need to change something, to go back to some old schools, to create our workers. It is also very important in the area of traffic that design is done by our companies. That's what I said last time. You have now, and you have called a tender for the Transport Strategy from 2022 to 2030. In the short run, as far as I know, three foreign companies have entered. Well, we have institutes that have been doing it for years. You have to do whatever it takes to make sure that our companies are doing these projects. Another thing about the Belgrade highway – Novi Sad, every honor, support absolutely, but the original task is very clear, no 160, 120 or 200. Just 200 kilometers from Horgos down to Presevo and a two-wheel line for electricity, for mixed traffic. I've seen a statement somewhere that maybe some of the shares are going at less speed. No, we won't build if we don't have the money for 200, but you're building for 200. Please, in this package of tours of the president now, of course, you have full support, visit the Belgrade knot. It is very important that the share of Belgrade – Novi Sad and Belgrade's node be completed so that technology can be trained. It ends Prokop, the Zemun Technical Passenger Station ends and it is time for you to give your pen in this term, as you say. You can finish this by the end of your term. Thank you, Maria.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4970	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Minister Momirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4971	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Thank you, first, for being with us the other day on the tour of Preljin – Požega and you certainly know how important this corridor is for the Republic of Serbia and generally the entire Milos Veliki highway. Of course I wasn't thinking about you. Of course, we're in communication. Milutin Mrkonjic: I am not angry. ) So, no, we absolutely don't criticise, I respect the circumstances in which you invested and ran public investment. These weren't circumstances like today, at the time you didn't have what we had. We have the President of the Republic who has set up and implemented fiscal consolidation and strengthened the country and generated surplus funds, not in consumption, but in investments, and therefore we have these economic results. You're right, our goal is to go, first of all, to the rails of 200 an hour and there's no dilemma. By the end of the year we end the railway in Belgrade – Novi Sad. In 30 minutes, people will be able to go from Belgrade to Novi Sad, sit in Belgrade, get to Novi Sad in 30 minutes, go see a theatre show, have coffee, have dinner, go back to Belgrade. The most modern trains, I'm talking about the most modern, fastest railroad in Eastern Europe. It's really something that this country hasn't seen so far, that Eastern Europe has never seen and what's causing me a problem for all of us -- how can we explain it when very few people have ever seen it? It is something that will really move this country qualitatively in two steps compared to the whole region. You've located some problems, open questions, I don't know what to say. We work with a large number of foreign partners. They're providing us with funding. They're asking us to stretch their performers. In reality, we negotiate it at 51-49% in their favor, but what we do on the ground, what we do on the ground, our performers have a minimum of 60% to 65% share. In some projects, more than 70%. I completely agree with you, the design is crucial, it's knowledge, it's the "nou-hau" we want, not just to grow, but to develop further wherever possible. We include the CIP, the Institute of Roads, wherever possible, we channel. It doesn't stand anywhere formally in the contract, but all the projects carried out here are taken by various Chinese companies by the CIP or the Institute of Roads. It's not a contract party. They have a formal ability to choose who they want, but we want our state-owned companies through these projects to significantly strengthen. That's it on the ground. These companies need support. We have a lot of problems, these are facts, but it seems to me that the last few years and these companies have been growing a lot. There are, of course, some companies, or some international institutions that insist on some conditions that defacto stretch foreign design houses. That's the facts. They are at the first moment, when it is seen, completely transparent and open, but when it comes to application, it comes to the fact that foreigners can only respect their conditions. Where there is an exception, an absolute exception, it is the "Belgrade Metro". We don't have that "nou-hau", you have to agree. We consulted on it together. The French are dominant in the rail systems. This is where we work with "Ezise" and "Alston". They're the best companies in the world. We're negotiating very carefully with them again, very carefully projecting. We don't want to throw people's money away. We are doing everything today to start working at a depot in Makish by the end of the year, that is, in October. We'll make it. Next year we start working on the first line, from Železnik to Miriev, a year later on the second line. In 2028, we'll have the first subway line completed, 2030, the second line of the subway. That's big steps. I am convinced that you know this better than many in this country, and perhaps the best, and that is where we really need foreign partners and with them we are developing this "nou-hau", that is, the knowledge of our companies. I'm glad we all agree that the investments that exist with the infrastructure are really the biggest in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4972	The word has Milutin Mrkonjic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4973	The support you have from the state, since you mentioned it, the president of the state is negotiating deadlines with the performers. Watch out, so what greater support do you want? You have the conditions to do everything we haven't done now. The president of the country? Imagine that I now call Milosevic to negotiate. The man didn't imagine it. We had the president, and he wasn't like this, but you've got great conditions and you have to work. Please, it can't happen, I have to say, that the bar track, which is a masterpiece of construction past the century, of the world, which was designed by an institution, I'm not going to force this CIP, because I was working there, now the Russians are designing, the reconstruction of the railways is being designed by the Russians. That's unserious. It's not your government's mandate, but you have to change. Our companies have to work more, please, there are no compromises, especially projectors. In the world, designers do not come from abroad, but do domestic companies. Therefore, I beg you here to understand me and to fight for those of ours. I asked those three engineers on the tunnel, of course, there are bigger salaries in the Chinese, so we understand each other right away, but we have to try to make it happen. Great three guys, but they'd come to your ministry tomorrow to work, great guys, our kids. Therefore, we must create conditions for our engineers to work here in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4974	Thank you. For our children, the MP Adam Šukalo is the author of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4975	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected and respected MPs, we have lost many years in the past period of time, and it is very important for this reason to consider today this law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of roadway interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is very important that this agreement is in continuity in various areas, especially this one that regulates the issue of reconstruction and maintenance of bridges. Eleven bridges on three rivers – the Sava, the Drina, the Uvc that connect people, which connect the peoples, which connect the trade between the two countries, which is extremely important, primarily for the Republic of Serbia, but also important for Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is extremely important for the entity of Republika Srpska and equally important for other entities -- the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are considering this law today, and we need to ratify and confirm this agreement. At the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 25 February 2021, colleagues from Bosnia and Herzegovina already agreed, as the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Two Houses and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina scheduled a session for 8 April and will hold this agenda. Essentially, since we in our parliamentary group and how to support this agreement, practically within a few days there are all conditions and that in the next time period, as defined by the agreement, it will be fully applied. He's been in temporary application since the day of his signing. The signing day is September 18th, 2020, when previous Minister Mihajlovic, together with Minister Mitrovica of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, signed this and what an important agreement. I would just like to say a few things about the agreement itself, because although it has only three members, it defines in its second member, to say, that is, the law itself has three members, in the very law of Article 2, we have also described the agreement, that is, all its provisions, all its members and several things that are highlighted here, which are extremely important. In addition to defining which bridges are involved, which I'm going to talk about a little bit more, I have to say that what's important is defined here, in Article 8, and I would specifically refer to it and apostrophe, and it's about procedures, customs and taxes. What is extremely important is that everything that needs to be pointed out at this moment, also, that this bridge, especially the bridge between Love and Bratunca, the bridge "Bratoljub" that bears this symbolic name, should I say, which is the coin of two municipalities – the Bratunca and Love, but also in symbolic terms, and in terms of the name "Bratoljub", is how important, that we finally define here today the possibilities for its future reconstruction and maintenance, but that we finally put that bridge into function and that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and above all those living in that space, as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, should finally put that bridge into function. In fact, the Republic of Serbia signed an agreement together with BiH on 11 September 2013 with the government of the Republic of Serbia and in this case with the Government of Republika Srpska, which has defined to make access to traffic and to define itself along with the Bish common border crossing. In 2017, the Republic of Serbia completed the construction of this bridge and the total budget for financing these projects, all of which I cited, was 12m euros. Serbia participated with 4.5m euros and completed building this bridge in 2017. However, due to the problems, which were first and foremost created in the context of the construction of access roads, and then complex problems that existed with the Council of Ministers and the Department of Direct Taxation in the context of the recording of this property and everything else, the process has been delayed and unfortunately the construction of a border crossing that was under this Agreement under the obligation of BiH has not yet been completed. Namely, it began on April 1st last year on the deadlines that were defined then. So, on April 1st, that bridge was to be completed. According to the information I have, the contractor requested additional deadlines. I hope that the minister also has information in this case and that not only with a suggestion, but also with an appeal to BiH institutions, that this debate goes in that direction, which means that the deadlines defined are respected, regardless of what was a pandemic, and in Serbia is a pandemic, you see that we are building in every possible place. This is very important for a simple reason because citizens living in the municipality of Bratunac, not only in Bratunac, but also in the region of Bislac and all others, those living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the municipality of Ljubovija and all other municipalities, are minimally, surely, about 50,000 citizens, not to talk about the trade in goods, waiting for the bridge, which we built in 2017. Although it was built in 2017 because it did not build a border crossing in BiH, it is not in office. And every day spent on procedures, on missing certain deadlines, means a weaker connection between the citizens of both states, a weaker trade in goods, etc. Much is invested in this bridge I'm talking about, and practically also these laws and agreements today, which are part of it, are defined and directed by the two countries customs procedures and everything else in some way, as simple as possible. In this context, I would like to urge, above all, the representatives of BiH to accept an initiative coming from Belgrade. We see that a great initiative concerning the integrated border crossing of Presevo-Tabanovci towards Northern Macedonia gives its full effect in terms of less waiting time for truckers, transports and everything else and that goods can now go far faster and far more effectively towards other countries, export countries, etc. And how important it is that such an integrated border crossing, which is now the pilot project an example between Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia, should be made towards BiH. Of course, this initiative which, in some broader context, means opening up the space of the idea of mini Schengen is one of the concrete things that, in this sense, should speed up not only the procedure but also raise the economy of both countries in this case enables new jobs, but also faster flow of both goods and people. As far as the Raca Bridge is concerned, we remember a period, a long time ago, some may not remember when the old bridge was still in operation, which also has the railway, so we built a new bridge. I also remember in 2010 that the bridge was built, but it was not allowed for citizens, people on both sides of the Sava coast to use it, because it was then to wait for Boris Tadic to open it. Unfortunately, these things are no longer something we need to talk about today, but in any case, I want to say that we've had negative examples where we've been waiting for certain politicians to come and cut the tape for a few months, because the protocol was much more important to them at that moment than the lives of citizens in those areas. What is also important for Raca, the minister knows very well, once again in the opportunity to praise everything that the Republic of Serbia is doing in the area of the Republic of Serbia in terms of building access roads and everything else that is related to the construction of a new route to Raca, and I hope that in a recent period of time we will see that this is happening by the Republika Srpska and that we will have space to connect not only Belgrade and Bijeljina, but also Bijeljina tomorrow with Banja Luka, as Banja Luka also built the Republika Srpska highway Doboja and that we will slowly draw closer to Banja Luka, but by building this highway towards Bijeljina, we will draw closer in each case to Tuzlu and Sarajevo, and this is very important. Once again to refer and appeal to the bridge between Ljubovije and Bratunc that the deadlines that have been extended several times so far are respected and that the contractors of the works, it seems to me that it is the company Enikavam from Zvornik, to speed up the work and finally complete the border crossing and to start using that bridge that is not being used, appeal again for this reason because the border crossing is not finished. In this context, I would like to say another sentence in terms of this discussion that the Republic of Serbia has done a great deal in the past time period, that, as we see by law and agreement itself, it has defined also the budget items concerning the maintenance of these 11 bridges, therefore all that we are doing in the next period of time, will mean, in this sense, that we will have better maintenance and better reconstruction and better roads, and I hope in the future and new bridges. In that sense, given that today several of my colleagues referred to Nobel laureate Ivo Andric, who is somehow the first personal paradigm in terms of relations between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, given his opus and that we may know the most about Ivo Andric in his most famous work that is not in this context today, let me say, these 11 bridges, but since he's bridges on Drina I'd best describe, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity and read something he did in poetry, and what has to do with bridges. For the end of reading his short song entitled "Don't Destroy All Bridges" "Don't Destroy All Bridges, Maybe They'll Come Back, You're Not A Bird, Not A Butter Beach That Flys. When there are no bridges, it's in vain to long, it's in vain to understand, it's in vain to want. Don't take down all the bridges, maybe they'll come back, leave at least one, a bridge between my heart and me. In loneliness, it's easier to get it misunderstood, so you could get your memories back. “ Long live Serbia, living bridges, among people and dear people.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4976	Thank you. We're moving on to the speaker list. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fefratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4977	I thank the Honorable Chairman. You have had the opportunity to hear that MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support this bill, as well as any proposal that leads to what it means to bring people together. In addition to this material thing today, there is also this symbolic plane that is extremely important and most important for us here in the Balkans, and therefore these discussions today are extremely important and I believe that in the future they will produce long-term fruits. Because every infrastructure investment, and especially one that is of an international character, is extremely important to all people, whether it is economic challenges, whether it is cultural challenges, whether it is human or other challenges, is all something that is going towards the acceleration of overall co-operation between peoples, between citizens, between all those who want a normal life and normal relationship in these areas. It's very important that we have as many of these projects as possible, as many of these laws as possible, which will be aimed at simply restoring what's abandoned, restoring life on these traffic jams and making it easier for citizens to do what's most important, which is that they have a smooth, easy, simple flow of goods, but everything that means existence in these areas. That is why we are very happy that this bill will be implemented very quickly, which will contribute to the fact that on both sides of Drina, but all other "Drina" and all other rivers, citizens have the opportunity to make as simple as possible, as simple as possible and as safe as possible and to exchange their cultural goods, our economic goods and thus create the values that are essential to all Balkan peoples and which are in fact in all our intertwinations. The most important thing is that these bridges serve, as those who are their builders in the past, and today in the future intend to serve good integration, networking and to be connections between cultures, traditions, to be joints that guarantee prosperity for every individual or every collectiveity in the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4978	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. He's not here. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4979	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a saying that bridges are hands that bring people together. There are also sayings that he who does good is expected to be more and more good. There's also a saying that they hate the one who can't hate the most. I think Serbia is a country that does good, which is even more expected to be good. To indicate ‘mini Schengen’. Bosnia and Herzegovina is our largest trading partner in the region. I think their interest was that regardless of the shared survival of the accident to enter the "mini Schengen" and that as much goods, services, capital and people would cross those bridges. Serbia's Maltene insists on it but there are people who make a difference between division and that's what needs to be said. A mutually surviving accident is twenty-five or six years behind us. In my view, due to the interest of foreign forces and the justification for their interventions in order to destroy that large common state, it is insisted that individual sides of this conflict also point out from such prominent differences of the sharing device. It is up to us to try to insist that the good, the more good services we try to make in the region the best economy, i.e. that the economic measures Serbia is implementing are implemented throughout the region. That what is good is shared together and that we forget this shared survival accident, or not entirely, that we remember it, but that is not why the region would not make economic progress and why countries that, behold, are collectively rebuilding bridges of the border, which is the bridge, or the Drina cupria. Why shouldn't countries that are reviving these bridges by European rules, the rules of the European Community, now the European Union, revive their economy, because it is obvious that it would benefit all people living in this region. Let's say that anyone without a job in BiH could easily find the job in Ruma, Indjia, Stara Paza, Sremska Mitrovica, etc., if guaranteed free flow of people. Economics would grow if there were a free flow of investments or some investments that could no longer be realised in Serbia, or there is no such thing as the need in Srem for the development of these economies, they could be placed through Sremska Race in one part of BiH. I think that would be useful to all sides. However, when regions, almost all of them, throw stones at Serbia, I don't know what the reason is, I believe that now this pandemic has brought people a little closer together and that it will change, but when you're being thrown at by a bunch of rocks from all sides, then it's up to you what you're going to do with those stones. Whether you build bridges or build walls. Serbia has decided to build bridges, but I'm not sure that all our neighbours from the former Yugoslav republics, from the former SFRY, want to make out of the stones they throw at us, that they want to build bridges. They usually do it to build walls. I think it's an interest of the ruling set-up in the surrounding countries that use their national and religious interests to self-renovate power. Anyway, the ball is in their backyard and what I can say about BiH, and that's good advice. If you want to preserve the BiH state, which I believe is of interest, and Serbia supports the Dayton Agreement, as far as I know, we have not strayed from it, but if someone wants to preserve a single BiH, then it cannot call Republika Srpska a forest republic, because then it is not an interest, it does not lead to reconciliation. He can't even call it genocide if he wants the Republika Srpska to be in their composition and if the Serbs there call the aggressors, and they live on that territory for centuries, then that, not to contribute to reconciliation, but BiH can make it impossible for the country. It is my advice to the Bosnian authorities, or the BiH authorities, to try to overcome the problem, because it is not their people's interest, it is perhaps the interest of a foreign force that wants to justify its aggression. So we want economic integration, I believe it will come to them. I believe that this will also come to the minds of those who still do not realize that "mini Schengen" is of interest to all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, and even moreover, that, in the EU's principles, we are sorting this market, and perhaps then we will be a more attractive piece for the EU, which, to me now, seems to want European integration to stop on the line of the former Austro-Hungarian, and in that historical fact, BiH has done the annexion, and Serbia, this narrow part, did not belong to Austria, and some politicians in Europe want to do so. To overcome this, the interest is that the free flow of people, the service of capital, the goods on this territory be by principle at least once European communities and in such a way that we may force Europe to think about integration with what they call the Western Balkans, that they too sense that the market of twenty million people or twenty-five has given God, therefore of interest to the EU itself, that is, for their companies to place their goods, then it certainly raises the interest of various world, financial organisations to support the construction of highways, not only through Serbia, we are already doing so, but to support it through other former republics of the former SFRY. In the end, to conclude my speech, what I see is not the limit, Drina is just a river. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4980	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zagorka Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4981	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues, such as the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Markovic, has already said, the JS will vote in favour of a law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between our two countries. This Agreement, in addition to, of course, building Belgrade-Sarajevo highways, is one of the strategic regional agreements and refers to the reconstruction of 11 bridges, Sava, Drinsko and Uvec belts. The organised and quality relations between Serbia and BiH are a prerequisite for long-term stability and peace throughout the region. Our relations today include developed trade, many projects in the area of travel infrastructure, intense political and social dialogue at all. We believe that Serbia and BiH's relations must not determine conflicts from the 1990s, but from the unbreakable historical and cultural ties of our peoples, and that is why today we have important bridges, not only those that combine the banks of the rivers, but those that bring people together. That's why JS believes that building bridges, taking care of bridges, investing in bridges, we send wider messages, and that's what we're going to give out, overcome problems, and that we're facing the only side that's important, and that's the interest of citizens, the improvement of people's everyday lives and economic co-operation. Serbia and BiH are essentially not making up any space suitable for the growth of certain past stories, but rather made up of people living in our countries. We are interested in the future, better conditions and quality of life of citizens and this is the only way Serbia can go. Serbia is one of the biggest investors in the BiH area. We have developed cultural and economic co-operation. The largest number of tourists from the region visiting Serbia is coming from BiH, according to RSS data. In 2020, 50,000 BiH tourists visited Serbia, and Serbian tourists were the most numerous guests in BiH during 2020. It should be noted that Serbia is an absolute leader in vaccination and by opening its doors and those who are not our citizens we have indeed shown solidarity. We will support all the moves that will contribute to improving the regional business environment, so we consider the idea of creating a common zone industry with the Republic of Serbia, which was mentioned. Serbia is committed to building sustainable, stable regional relations and through the Mini Schengen initiative, which is the strongest regional economic association. We expect the Serbian government to make every effort in the coming period to make maximum use of the benefits of the common regional market. In voting day, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4982	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Jelisaveta Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4983	Dear Vice-Presidents, respected ministers Momirovic, colleagues and fellow MPs, and certainly, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, every agreement signed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, I believe it is for the benefit of both sides of the agreement. We could have made sure of the agreements we voted here, which brought great profits to our country and certainly other signatories. Therefore, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Three P" will support this proposal for an agreement, as well as other points on the agenda of this session. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH is very necessary, as maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges is extremely important for both sides. Transport security, trade, tourist activities, sports activities, cultural events, all of this is connected by countries, and it is necessary for the lives of all citizens of both sides. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministers of BiH is such that 11 bridges that bring us together, and I hope there will be more, the Republic of Serbia has accepted six bridges to maintain on the Drina River, these are: Trbušnica-Sepak, Mali Zvornik-Karakaj, Mali Zvornik-Zvornik, the King's Bridge of Alexander, two bridges of Ljubovija-Bratunac, these are the old and new bridges, and Bajina Basta-Skelani. Bosnia and Herzegovina will maintain and reconstruct two bridges on the Sava, the Sremska Raca-Rača road and Sremska Raca-Rača road-rail bridge. Then, three bridges on the river Uvac, Gate 2, at the entrance to the free zone, the bridge in the Emperor's field and Uvac-Uvac. The agreement will be monitored and implemented for Serbia by the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, and by the Ministry of Communications and Transport for BiH. The ministries will designate a competent authority or other legal entities defined by the law or regulations of the Contracting Party. Both ministries will provide data on competent authorities or other legal persons for each individual bridge. The obligation of these authorities to provide the necessary documentation concerning the bridge in question, then to notify the other Party's competent ministry of planned works, traffic arrangements and the duration of the reconstruction. The competent ministries are obliged to appoint members of the joint operational team within 60 days of signing this agreement, and the joint operational team will have to draw up a bridge reconstruction plan and reflect them within six months. The competent authority shall inform the other Contracting Party at least once every two years. In order to make work easier and faster, customs and tax reliefs are necessary, so it is agreed that some materials, equipment, machines and devices are not subject to customs control and tax administration to perform these works and reconstructions. Control of these transactions will work on the customs service of one and the other parties. I would also like to refer to an important issue which this agreement also touches in Article 12(2), saying that it and its application will not prejudge the future solution on the identification and marking of the interstate border. It is known that there are numerous open issues between the two countries regarding the precise descriptive spread of the state border, especially at the lower flow of the Drina River, which does not rarely pour out with its physical characteristics, blue surrounding land and alter its main flow, creating numerous river islands, gloves and deader. This in practice creates a number of problems in the field for the population of border villages, often where a river often destroys whole pieces of the most fertile country or simply brings the main stream to the other side by a simple change. And while honest agricultural producers are struggling to come and work on their parcels, this is the true paradise for various mechanics, and especially for the illegal exploitation of river applications of gravel and sand, which, due to the inability of actual control, does not go uninterrupted, because the state border is not precisely defined, and thus the jurisdiction of inspection services. In addition to causing damage to both countries' budgets, it endangers and threatens the world in the river, and more importantly, during uncontrollable exploitation, the bridges that are now at stake are being threatened. That is why I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of BiH would have to consider this big problem, and that, if it is already difficult to reach agreement on the border itself, then reach some agreement on joint work and the competences of relevant water industry inspections, and other services in the border area of Drina, and I believe that such an agreement would lead to multiple benefits on the ground, both for all three sides and for the local population. In the hope that there will be more bridges, which I said at first, on these rivers, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4984	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4985	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, thus, as has already been said, the BiH delegation and the Republic of Serbia signed two agreements on 18 September 2020, one concerning the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and BiH, and the other concerning the construction of a common border crossing between Bratunac. For both agreements, it is very important to build the Bratoljub Bridge, which connects the two states by joining Ljubljana in Serbia and Bratunac in BiH. Serbia has funded the construction of this 227m-long bridge, with the value of the works amounting to about 13m euros, and access roads to the bridge have also been made. The Republic of Serbia has implemented the construction of access routes from Bratunac, while the payment for the BiH city's customs terminal and border crossing, which is the subject of the second agreement I set out at the beginning. Confirmation of the agreement we are talking about today will certainly contribute to further development and improvement of regional infrastructure, as well as deepening bilateral relations between the two countries, which is also of paramount importance and importance. It refers to maintenance, reconstruction, you said in the opening exhibition, 11 interstate bridges of which are six on the Drina, for which Serbia is in charge. The funds are envisioned by the Act on the Republic of Serbia's 2021 budget of around 15m euros, the remaining five are in BiH's jurisdiction, two of which are on the Sava, and three are on the Uvac River. There are ten million bridges in the world today, according to some data. According to some data, only the United States has more than 600,000 bridges. Bridges bring people together, as someone once said, cities and states. Their symbolism, I think, was said by a colleague from the SDPS, in his works he often wrote Nobel laureate Ivo Andric, and I don't think we could find a better description anywhere. Andric experienced bridges in a special way, many important events took place throughout history. The bridges are, in his words, more important than houses, sanctity, temples, they are, in fact, the ones that bring people together, regardless of the class, regardless of the social status, regardless of religion, regardless of the nation. Bridges are an expression of man's desire to connect with others. Taking into account the history of relations with us next door, the realisation will contribute to further integration, which we are absolutely sure of, as a parliamentary group, Serbia and BiH. It will facilitate the life and communication of people living in them and will lead to further development of regional co-operation, integration, both between Serbia and BiH and other countries of our region. Serbia and BiH, I would like to point out, have established diplomatic bilateral relations in October 2000. Today they have good political co-operation with certain, open issues. A large number of bilateral agreements, Serbia and Republika Srpska's co-operation is at a very high level. Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of Serbia's most important foreign and trade partners. The exchange of goods with each other is constantly growing. This agreement is, I would say, just one more step forward, a step further towards Serbia and BiH's economic integration. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country created by the collapse of the former SFRY, a form of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which was signed in 1995, and, according to its political organisation of the single state in the world, consists of two entities, the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska, and as a special organisation unit, the Brcko District. For Serbia, BiH's stability is extremely important. We respect its structure of power based on the Dayton Agreement. In late December of last year, when we talk about parliamentary co-operation, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ivica Dacic and Republika Srpska Parliament Speaker Nebojsa Cubrilovic agreed on the need for further promotion and co-operation of two parliaments, which is also of great importance and importance. Serbia, Republika Srpska, has helped and will continue to do so during the current crisis, caused by the coronary virus. Investment in infrastructure is a key indicator of the development of an economy. It is Serbia's interest to develop regional co-operation, Serbia today with all its projects, participates with 13 billion euros, correct me if I am wrong, ministers, with 13 billion euros, in regional integration with all countries in the region. It is important that we connect as a region, because that means faster development, that means new investments, and that means better living standards for citizens. Investment in infrastructure opens up a space for new factories, to create new jobs, which is more invested in infrastructure and roads, thus fostering investment, economy, especially foreign direct investment, such investment will contribute to greater GDP, which means a better standard of living for citizens. Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vucic recognised the importance of this issue when he began a tour of important and important infrastructure projects in the country, as their completion is important, both due to the growth rate and the bringing of foreign investors. I would also refer to the bridge on the Sava River, because it is a bridge connecting Belgrade's highway, one of the most important and valuable infrastructure projects in the region, whose total estimated value of construction is around 2 billion euros. Building this highway is one of the most important infrastructure projects that should contribute both to the stability and development of the region. Belgrade's highway is a symbol of good relations, primarily in the future. This project is important for connecting Serbia and BiH, it is important for connecting Serbia and Republika Srpska, but it is also important for connecting two peoples, Serbs and Bosniaks, which is what we are talking about today. Due to the geostrategic position, it could be said that we are at a crossroads of roads that connect east and west, and with this it is very important to cultivate good neighbourly relations and stronger co-operation, both between Serbia and BiH and other countries in the region. Today, it was about one of the most significant, before I return to the economy, and what is your responsibility and your jurisdiction, and what is also very important, but at this moment the most important question, which is unfortunately the period of the pandemic and the crown, which has hit us, therefore, the health challenge, whose, lastly, unfortunately, still not seen. And what I'm saying is that the pandemic has shown the success of Serbian politics. Aleksandar Vukic united the region, Serbia donated more than tens of thousands of vaccines to the countries in the region, and it is not a matter of donation. Donation isn't a matter of vaccine, it's primarily a matter of mutual improvement in relationships, of trust. Trusting each other, it's important that we cooperate and share problems together, we're individually too small. Together we can only do something, and therefore we fully support the position when the President of the Republic says, and I spoke of it a few days ago, with one vote as a region ahead of the EU, in front of Brussels, in front of the great world powers, because it is the only way we can do something together and achieve it. And we shouldn't talk bad about each other, because we live together. We live side by side, we live next to each other. Belgrade is today the most important city, not only in the region, but also beyond. Photos published by the media a few days ago and figures of how many foreign citizens have been vaccinated in Belgrade, it is now in favour of such a finding. Serbia wants to develop regional co-operation, Serbia wants to create a better economic environment in the Balkans for all Balkan countries. Because, it should not be forgotten, in addition to the trade in goods with the EU, we do not dispute that, but 70-80% of the trade in goods is currently being done in the region. Well, let's open the borders. Let's create a normal trade, no barriers. Let's make it possible for people to live better and make economic progress. Well, I guess that's the whole point. A little while ago, someone mentioned how to run regional co-operation. Well, right through regional projects. A few days someone mentioned a regional project, and I will only brief five, which I consider to be of paramount importance and importance: first of all, the regional economic summit, which the President of the Republic announced in Belgrade, secondly, the Turkish Stream, is of great importance to us, for our industry, for our economy, for our population, further, the mini Schengen, freedom of movement of people, capital, services, greater possibility of dramatically reducing costs when crossing administrative lines. It is wrong to interpret those malicious ones, it has absolutely nothing to do with the recognition of the unilaterally declared independence of KIM, so I guess it is clear to them after Washington, item 10 is put aside and anyone who tries to put pressure on Serbia and thinks that the pressure of Serbia will accept Kosovo as a state, he is aware that this is not possible? Fourth thing - Washington Agreement. No matter what they think of him and how they interpreted the letter of Trump and Biden's letter to Meeting, they are certainly different content, I would not speak of it today, but the Washington Agreement is important for economic normalisation and it is a signal for potential investors, a magnet for potential investors, and it is precisely about investment in infrastructure, in travel and in railway infrastructure. And as the fifth project, the core of the Berlin process is business. So investment in the field of digitisation, innovation, investment and industry development certainly. Mr. Minister, I'm going to look very briefly at some economic issues and what it is is one of the basic pillars that need to be realized in order to come to the goals that we have defined through the 2021 budget, I mean, above all, at the projected rate of GDP of 6%. So in 2021, Serbia entered a strong and economically stable, with full confidence that it would realise the projected rate of GDP growth of 6%, with a stable economy, with the economic growth rate of the first in Europe, i.e. falling, at the lowest rate of decline in Europe, and just one of the pillars that should contribute to the realisation of this goal are huge separations for infrastructure. Never again -- 330 billion dinars, that's 5.5% of GDP. What happened? It has been shown that when the state invests and the state invests in infrastructure and capital projects, it encourages both domestic and foreign investors. And one indicator -- it's not true that in the Corona period life stopped and it wasn't working. On the contrary. When it comes to infrastructure projects, infrastructure projects totalling 146 billion dinars were realised between January and November of last year. When you compare it to the period compared to the previous year, it's 14.7% higher than the same period of the previous year. So there's no economics without infrastructure development. I commended you last time because I think you're doing your job responsibly, seriously, and committed and it's very important that you are present as a minister right where necessary, at construction sites, at important construction sites. I mentioned one important construction site, which is a roadway to Nepričava, as a patriot local, as Valjevac, not only connects Valjevo but the entire western Serbia, and it certainly contributes to new investments in western Serbia and new jobs, and Valjevo will not be a appendix. For example, Serbia has built 350km of new highways over the past few years, so we have 950km so far. In addition, Serbia is currently working on building 250km of new highways. And, of course, praise for... A few days ago, you visited another one, together with the president of the Republic of Serbia, the directors of the road infrastructure company, with our colleague and friend Milutin Mrkonjic, who is always ready to offer well-intentioned advice and listen to it – always before the deadline, always be before the deadline when it comes to road and rail infrastructure, I mean the Preljina-Požega route, it is important that the date is defined, that it is 7 January 2021 and it is very important that the moment that this share is completed, the shares towards Borjan, i.e. towards Montenegro, the total length of 107 km, and the value is 1.5 billion euros. I don't think anyone could have imagined that a day and a moment would come when you drive from Belgrade to Montenegro in two hours and 15 minutes, or two hours. Mr. Minister, of course we will support this agreement, I wish you a lot of success in the next period of time and you have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4986	Thank you. As Col. Milicevic announced, according to Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm giving a break. We'll be back in 15 hours and 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4988	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues, respected citizens, I am Milija Miletic. I come from Srlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I was elected to the Assembly from the list Aleksandar Vukić – For our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4989	Now I'm just missing - and I'm the most beautiful messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4990	I can't say, that's understood. Thank you. As before, I will always support proposals that are good for citizens, for people, for all those living in Serbia, for those living in the country and from the village. This proposal is very important for all of us - the construction and reconstruction of bridges, the construction of roads. It is something that is important for all of our citizens here in Serbia and for those in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think this is the right thing to do, Your Honor. We'll all support this. It's the right thing to do and it's very necessary. In this way we will give more opportunity to invest, make new friendships, bring investors, and this way we will have the opportunity to solve a large number of problems affecting all of our citizens here and with us in Serbia, as well as those in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Otherwise, I'm eager and willing to get some things settled at last. By the way, in 2000, we made this co-operation, we recognized Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have these diplomatic relations, but until today we have no border to know what, where and how, specifically, we have the opportunity to solve the problem and energy in addition to these bridges and roads that we do. We all know what the big problem is. We all know what it means to be a river that's very strong and powerful, where more hydropower plants can be done, like a hydropower plant at Baja's Garden. That's a big need. This way, if we did it, if Sarajevo had the will and the desire to finally get rid of this relationship... Otherwise, the Republic of Serbia and our president really have a great desire and will to get rid of it, and we show it in every place. We want to have the best relationship with our neighbors, with our friends, and we do that and help with vaccines, building roads and all that. Finally, and the MP club I'm in is a parliamentary club where we have opportunities and wishes to build that bridge, to work because we are the same. We're one people. We live here in Serbia. Our country is Serbia, but our desire is to further improve these relations, to have the hand of friendship done in the best way and finally, when we do these bridges, when we do everything that has been started, to solve the problem and those borders on our part. As far as I know, everything goes well, and I expect it to be from Sarajevo, to accept it, to do it the best way, and to finally solve the problem of hydropower, to solve energy, because it's one of the options that tomorrow we don't have problems with these mini power plants, to do it, to ban them, but to have the possibility of four or five large hydropower plants, like Baji's Garden, and to solve the problem of energy in our country Serbia. Once again, I, as an MP of the United Peasants' Party, will support all these proposals, because one of the most important things is building bridges. Bridges between nations are the most important thing. We build these bridges, we build, we expand. I'd like generations to settle us on these bridges, on these roads to pour flowers, to be something that's most beautiful, no more hate, but to be love and respect and, most importantly, to respect everyone, so it doesn't matter who's who. We're just all human, and as such, we have to be who we are. The state of Serbia is a country that spreads its breasts and wants to help everyone. We expect it from the other side. Otherwise, it's something that has to be and we'll work on it together. Dear President of the Assembly, you were also Minister of Foreign Affairs, you know some things better than I do. I expect that we will solve the problems that are lagging behind, but these problems are important to the lives of all of us who live here in Serbia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4991	Thank you, if anyone hasn't heard, the most beautiful MEP from the most beautiful city in Serbia. The word is Mr Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4992	Dear President, honourable ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, this law confirms the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between our two countries. Of the 11 bridges on Drina, Savi and Uvc, which will be reconstructed and maintained, there will be six bridges in Serbia's jurisdiction, and Bosnia and Herzegovina will take care of five bridges. Serbia has provided 15m euros for the project over the next three years and once again demonstrates its intention to help our people through the Drina, and also its readiness for further progress in relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Regional integration is the most important way and conditions for the development of our countries, and this agreement will also contribute to the creation of conditions for better communication, trade, flow of goods and capital and connection in every way. The region's largest infrastructure project is certainly the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, which will be realised in the next few years, and the overall estimated value of the project is two billion euros, which will be partly financed by the Republic of Turkey. Last year, Serbia already set out to build the first section from Sremska Raca to Kuzmin in the length of 18km and took over to invest the construction of a bridge on Raca, while the value of the investment is 220m euros. Republika Srpska and Serbia's co-operation has never been better. For citizens, the most visible co-operation in the area of economy and joint investment is. There are currently no municipalities in Republika Srpska where Serbia has not invested certain funds in infrastructure projects according to the proposals and needs of the municipalities and cities themselves. More specifically, 48 units of local self-government in Republika Srpska and in all municipalities located in other parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the majority Serbian population were invested in infrastructure projects, kindergartens, health homes, homes of culture, schools. Serbia has invested around 60m euros in various projects in Republika Srpska in the last seven years, and only in the budget for this year has 5 billion dinars been allocated for one of the most significant projects, which is Trebinje Airport. The total amount of funds Serbia has identified for this project is 55m euros. Trebinje will have a chance to be one of the most visited tourist destinations in this part of the Balkans and the realization of this project expects growth and the development of economic activity, the arrival of new investments and the creation of new jobs. The other day, an agreement was signed on the construction of a gas pipeline connecting to the Balkan flow, which will bring security to most of Bosnia and Herzegovina's gas supply, and around 125m euros will be invested in the project. A gas interconnection towards the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina will be tied to the Balkan flow from India. The highway pipeline will be 325km long, passing through Republika Srpska, and one leg will go towards the Federation. The gas pipeline's capacity is 1.2 billion cc's of gas per year, and it is indeed one strategic project that will enable the gasification of a large part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Currently, the economy is the strongest link between our two countries and Serbia is a major foreign trade partner in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because of our country's huge investment, stability and peace are very important to us throughout the region. So CEFTA and the EU are two key Western Balkan market regions and any integration of the region on this issue can affect GDP growth. It should be noted that Serbia is the third largest investor in Bosnia and Herzegovina with previously invested capital of over one billion euros and another foreign-trade partner with about 13% in the trade exchange last year. The economies of our two countries are naturally directed at each other. Serbian companies and brands are recognised on the Bosnian-Herzegovina market. In any case, business co-operation is far better than political co-operation, which is always burdened by events from the near past. Serbia is ready and is trying to do so at all levels, to improve political co-operation, thus almost giving its consent to the opening of the Bosnia and Herzegovina consulate in Novi Pazar by the end of this year. This is certainly good news for Bosniaks from the Raska region, and also a good political decision from Serbia. During a recent visit to Sarajevo and a 5,000 vaccine donation, President Vukic agreed to hold a summit of co-operation and trust between officials and businessmen from Bosnia and Herzegovina from Serbia to deal more effectively with the problems that burden the two countries' relations in the future. Serbia's commitment will continue to be a close co-operation with our people in Republika Srpska whenever possible. Serbia has helped a lot so far. It will continue in the next period and no one can forbid it. Certainly, both this agreement today in the interests of our country and in the day for the vote of the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4993	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4994	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, more than a century ago, one of the most famous Serbian Socialists before the First World War, Dimitria Tucovic said the Balkans suffers from too many frequent borders. Today, 120 years later, these limits are still expressed, sometimes physically, sometimes politically, and very often in the minds of people. The government of the Republic of Serbia daily, through its activities, shows us how these borders exceed over and over, above all, good co-operation and good neighbourly relations, but also the solidarity we show in these difficult times, giving way to vaccines, to our neighbours from the region. The agreement on the agenda today, between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH, on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between the two countries, is an example of how borders and barriers are overcome by opening new co-operation and deepening existing activities and co-operation. These spaces of history have connected over the past decades and centuries, geographical, economic, demographic, cultural, family ties, the tradition of mutual business relations, leaving us with tasks that require continued bilateral co-operation. Serbia shows that it gives special importance to preserve and develop further improvement of bilateral relations, and when it comes to parliamentary co-operation, which we are part of, and which is also an important factor in comprehensive processes. With this in mind, I would also like to remind you of the recent meeting of National Assembly President Ivica Dacic and BiH Parliamentary Assembly Speaker Nebojsa Radmanovic, as well as the formation and activity of a parliamentary group of friendships with BiH. In this way, the institutions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia make a major contribution to improving bilateral co-operation between the two countries, but also shows the importance of Serbia giving friendship with BiH. The signed Agreement on the maintenance of bridge reconstruction on the Drina, Savi and Uvc rivers is of multiple importance. It improves road traffic, improves the living conditions of people living in these parts, opens up faster flow of people and goods, new investments etc. Joint investment in Serbia and BiH infrastructure has entered a new phase, a phase of regional relations and regional co-operation, and it is important that this practice continues to other sectors, as multi-sectoral integration is an important condition for the prosperity of countries in the region. These projects are important because they allow peoples to connect, and connecting nations will be the result of a better future for all citizens living in these areas, no matter what people they belong to. Serbia is participating with all its projects today with 13 billion euros in regional integration, and the value of a project linking Serbia with BiH is 1.7 billion euros. In some of the previous exhibitions, I spoke and highlighted the importance of the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, which is one of the most valuable and major projects, not only between the two countries, but also the Balkans. For us, this highway is important and because it will be the first highway between Serbia and some of the countries in the region where we will have common border crossings, and also that. in Sremska Raca on Serbia's territory, and in Kotroman on BiH territory. These integrated border crossings will contribute to faster and easier flow of people and goods, lower transport costs, shorter waiting at borders, simply, speeding up and facilitating both passenger and freight traffic, and also discharging other border crossings towards BiH. This project, Serbia and BiH, as I said earlier, entered a new phase of regional relations into a phase that will measure the achieved, built projects, employ new people, establish new bridges, build new roads, but also develop the economies of these two countries, which will ultimately aim at the well-being of citizens and of Serbia and BiH. Such a policy is a permanent definition that I believe also has the support of the citizens of Serbia, but also of the citizens of BiH, because these are projects and targets that lead the region towards further accelerated development and the path to the EU. Given that my colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group spoke from a professional aspect of the importance of these 11 bridges, and since I come from one, I can freely say, when it comes to borders with BiH, the most specific municipalities in Serbia, the Priboj municipality and I will refer to this agreement and how important it is to the local population. The specificity of Priboj, i.e. the Municipality of Priboj, is reflected in the fact that 2/3 of the citizens of our municipality and 2/3 of our territory are located in the cross-border area. This implies that a large number of citizens of our municipality daily because of the intertwination of administrative borders, because of work, because of schooling or because of working on their properties, crosses as many as four border crossings. We care about these three bridges on Uvec, above all, because the first bridge on Uvec that will be reconstructed is and the most burdened main border crossing for all of these residents, for transit and for passenger traffic. It is extremely burdened, and also over the past years, when it was the only border crossing, where the daily functioning of our citizens was difficult and because daily citizens of the Pruboj municipality in Serbia, but also the citizens of the Rudo municipality in BiH waited daily to move to the other side. The second bridge which is the topic and which is the subject of this agreement is the bridge in the Carevo Polje, also on the river Uvac which has greatly facilitated the daily life of citizens of these border areas by opening up the joint initiative of the Municipality of Pribo and Rudo after 25 years for pedestrians and for border traffic in 2016. In this way, waiting and citizens of the Municipality of Priboj could have been reduced faster and easier to reach the desired places. The reconstruction and reconstruction of these bridges on the Uvac River, as I said, will facilitate the daily life of all citizens living in the border area, and for the citizens of these two border municipalities in particular. This project is not only measured by asphalt meters, but also by being able to solve common problems faster and easier with their neighbours and that they can think much faster about socio-economic development, as well as employment. The agreement will contribute to the better economic development of these two municipalities, their integration, the construction of stronger relations with both the Serbian and Bosnian sides, which will further contribute to the development of bilateral co-operation between Serbia and BiH. Given the role and importance that I have pointed out that local self-government has improved bilateral co-operation, i.e. co-operation between these two countries, I would also point out in particular the affirmative and good examples of the local self-government of these two countries. It is certainly a memorandum of establishing mutual co-operation signed in February by four municipalities of the two states. These are the municipalities of Priboj, Rudo, Chajetina and Visegrad. It is also important to mention the Charter of Brethren signed yesterday by the presidents of the Municipality of Priboj and Rudo, and the aim of this Charter is to connect and improve cooperation in the long term between these two municipalities in the areas of economic development, tourism, youth, sports, education, but also in other areas that are important for the functioning and mutual interest of these two border municipalities. I must point out that good joint co-operation between the Municipality of Pruboj and the municipality of Rudo is the reason why all these inhabitants of the Municipality of Priboj make life less complicated and that is why it is particularly important for us to have this support from a republican level, and through such joint projects, to contribute, as I said earlier, to the easier life of citizens in these areas. I cannot help but mention that such a joint infrastructure solution by the two countries would also be important for the maintenance and reconstruction of roads in the border and cross-border belts with BiH, which, due to the intertwination of administrative borders and the jurisdiction of public enterprises and states, are rarely neglected, and traffic is extremely frequent and burdened, and therefore significant for our citizens. In particular, I am thinking about those edges and edgeways that relate to the completions of one, or another country, and where it often comes because of the competence of public undertakings that maintain those shares. Without such joint interstate projects in all areas of infrastructure, which stem from the real problems of an ordinary man, from the real needs of an ordinary man, as well as the aspirations to improve the quality of life of people living in border areas, we cannot expect them to remain living in these areas. Interstate co-operation in the area of infrastructure is therefore the need and necessity of border parts, as infrastructure resources extend beyond administrative borders, and investment in their maintenance and reconstruction will be significantly felt by citizens and both sides. Also, I believe that investment in these bridges does not only contribute to better co-operation between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but has a wider regional dimension because these bridges on the Uvac River are located on the roadway to Montenegro and are near the Cemer border crossing. That is why I believe that this investment will have this greater regional importance, and Serbia as a leader in the region will certainly continue to successfully build and maintain ties with other neighbours. That is why I believe that the task and goal of all participants at both local and republican level should be that the boundaries that we are ahead of us are better co-operated, by promoting this cooperation to other segments of social life, but also by caring for good relations with neighbours. The agreement and another sure step in that direction and the SPS parliamentary group will be pleased to support it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4995	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary Sanja Lakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4996	At first it was a word, and it became through it, and without it, nothing became what it had become. Dear colleagues, my dear Serbs, wherever you live, dialogue is a good basis for every start. I am sincerely looking forward to an increasingly frequent dialogue between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia. The more frequent dialogue that is accompanied by concrete works is certainly one of the concrete works of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on the maintenance of interstate bridges between our two countries. It is a good sign of successful regional co-operation and shows today that Serbia has seen changes and that we want better co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina. It shows today that the words of Serbian politics are not only words that reconstruct and maintain old bridges, but words that build bridges between the people in different ways and the whole region could, especially lately, see what the Serbian word is. And where do I get the right to say that? Did Serbia say – do we want to lead a policy of peace? Yes, she said and no step, we did not step on peace in the region and we said - we are interested in BiH's stability and we said - we are a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement, but we will respect everything decided by three constituent peoples and two entities for which we are equally interested. We're running a peace policy, because that's the Serbian word. Did we say – we want solidarity policy in the region? We also said in 2015 and 2017 in floods we helped our countrymen in Albania, Macedonia, 2020 and 2021 and Croatia and BiH after the bloody earthquakes that took place. We donated thousands of vaccines to both Macedonia and the brothers in Montenegro and both BiH entities and showed solidarity policy, but we showed that Serbia today in the region wants to be a friend to all states. That's why we became a regional vaccination centre, 7,500 businessmen have been vaccinated here in downtown Belgrade, and for so many times this region is stronger, the region of the Western Balkans. I said, Serbia wants to lead a policy of solidarity, because that's the Serbian word. We are not just friends of neighboring countries, we are finally strong queens of our people in the region. And I don't need to talk about it from the seats, I don't need to talk about it from Belgrade, just hear the words of our bishops in both BiH and Croatia. Do you know how much the basic school and kindergarten means to our people to build an airport in Trebinj and how much it means to our people in Republika Srpska to rebuild every local road, every airport, every bypass, how much it means to our people to build these interstate bridges. That's the Serbian word, to respect others, but we love ourselves infinitely. Listen only to what the opposition and the position in Republika Srpska say, no one has ever helped Republika Srpska, no one. No one in 20 years has ever helped Republika Srpska in 20 years, as much as the Republic of Serbia led by Aleksandra Vukic, has ever helped anyone in 20 years, and that is the Serbian word. We said -- we want a stable economy, not only Serbian, but the whole region, and we didn't just stay on the words, but we offered a project of mini Shengen. The cure and healing of the entire region. I know that not all those lives that have been lost in the wars in this region are still forgotten, but I know that we will find 1,000 topics from the past that will be enough to point a finger at anyone or he into me and I know that we finally need to sit at the same table, not to politicize these heavy and bloody topics from the past. I know we need to talk about them, because there should be a dialogue at first, and that's what we're doing right now. I also know that our buckle today is in the present and in the future exactly an economy and that our common voice in Brussels will be heard much better than just Serbian. That's why for all those who doubt the Serbian word, but also for all those who put clips in the points of our regional co-operation, I want to ask a question, not as a MP, not as a lawyer, but as an ordinary man – is there anything more beautiful than dying for your country? I think Serbia would say today -- there is, that you live for Serbia, because that is the Serbian word, that you finally live for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4997	Thank you. National MP Nebojsa Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4998	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is ahead of us today the item of the agenda concerning the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the maintenance and reconstruction of road bridges between Serbia and BiH. I want to do on this topic a retrospective of work related to infrastructure projects that are of great importance, both for Serbia and its citizens, but also for the whole region. When the "Serbia 2025" plan was announced by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, we saw that Serbia will become a modern, orderly and European country to which every resident in this country will be proud. They used to say all sorts of stupid things and laugh at the president when he was at the conferences drawing up the future, for someone maybe the path of life and the view of the world, and they laughed at him by those who weren't able to do a mile of highways during their reign, but were only involved in the asphalting of their courtyards, their estates, their circles within their factories. The infrastructure projects announced this year are as many as eight highways to be built in our Serbia and I don't think many major world and economic forces are able to engage in such important infrastructure projects as will be realized in our country. What definitely gives me the strongest impression is that for the first time in the history of this country, for the first time and in the serious plan and programme of the government and the president of the state, an accent is being cast into our villages. The complete editing of the sewerage network, the introduction of a broadband internet that we discussed in the previous weeks, gives hope that residents of rural areas will have almost as good and quality conditions for life as residents of urban settlements. What I want to point out from this place is to bring out the praises that come from the Smederjevska Palanka municipality and to say that it is a municipality that has entered the Clean Serbia project, which is being implemented by the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, and this project is meant to include or cover that all villages or some 85% of the Palanese villages will be covered with a sewerage network where modern waste water treatment stations will be built. I'd like to express my gratitude to President Alexander Vukic, but also to you ministers for giving this opportunity to a young man to think deeply about the moment he might consider leaving his village and going to a larger city or municipality. We're just sending them a clear message that we're going to provide them with basic living conditions, and above all I'm thinking about electricity, water and sewerage networks, the Internet. Local self-government to make sure that within their budget they find the means to reconstruct the rural homes of cultures, local communities, build new playgrounds, and when we do all this, we create a positive climate to open up a new job in that village. How much Serbia wants to take care of its citizens tells the fact that Smederevska Palanka municipality in 2016, I speak for just five years, was a municipality that did not have street lighting, which was the most in charge of the municipality in Serbia, which did not have a proper water supply, and today thanks to the president of the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also to all the resolution ministries, it is a municipality that, within its budget, can plan to build or refurbish certain local traffic facilities, replace the water network, build new playgrounds, and all of this was a mental noun for all of us coming from that municipality. When you go through one of these negative processes, and when you know what state Serbia was in until 2012, you find it so much harder to make the accusations that came from those who didn't care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they did nothing for them, and they had the chance. The question is, could Gilas and the company have done better than what they did, or was the disastrous state of their policy a fruit of elemental incompetence? At that time, the appointment of obedient personnel in important places in the country resulted in stupid and reckless decisions, as such personnel were exclusively involved in building their own careers and less in building or almost not being engaged in the construction of schools, hospitals and roads. The result of their policy is a mere greed, because in the past weeks we see that, you know, all the money that's finished, which is mentioned, that ended in Mauritius, in Hong Kong, in Switzerland, so citizens need to know that it's our people's money, that it's our children's money, our fathers, our mothers. Citizens need to know and I want this opportunity to convey to the citizens a message that you remember this person well, that you remember this man well, because this man was the reason that many families were starving, precisely because of this man many have remained deprived of their social benefits, and Serbia has remained because of this man without new jobs, without roads, schools and hospitals. For the profiter Gilas, investment in Serbia today is a vain spending of money, and for this man patriotism is mere avaism, something that is survived and something that is unnecessary. I just want to tell the citizens that the only thing that you can remember is that the only and only SNS is a demarcation line that clearly distinguishes patriots and mercenaries, responsible people from those who want to continue to profit from the people's torment and to be rich in people's money. Serbia turned a new leaf nine years ago. Serbia took a new path nine years ago and just about all the laws adopted, but also those in the assembly procedure represent a clear decision by Serbia to stay on that path, which is based on brave steps by Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u4999	Thank you. The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5000	Dear friends of Bosniaks, indigenous residents of this country, good citizens of this country, with special attention and special sympathy watch every move towards each other, strengthening ties and friendships with neighbouring BiH. For us Bosniaks living in this country, the position and president of this country, and all the representatives of this country, I mean ministers and other representatives, to support the territorial integrity and sovereignty of neighbouring BiH. This is not only politically correct and just, it is also useful for us as a country that calls for international law, respect for the integrity and sovereignty of the neighbouring country and neighbouring countries. We ask that the sovereignty and territorial and integrity of our state of the Republic of Serbia be respected. That's a very good thing. Co-operation between representatives of the Republic of BiH and our country has been intensified. In March, our foreign minister was a guest and indeed gave good messages that for our country, stability of neighbouring BiH is of paramount importance and urged it to continue on good neighbourly relations and strengthen ties. I must say that relations between the two countries are not being carried out and not only achieve bilateral relations, but there is also a trilateral in which the Republika Srpska is participating, i.e. the Republic of Turkey. I am pleased that since May of this year, in full capacity, our joint trade representation in Istanbul will begin to operate, meaning the joint trade representation of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of BiH in the Republic of Turkey and that we will try to place our goods on this truly huge market. We know well that co-operation with Turkey has indeed achieved some optimism lately and that we have crossed one billion euros of co-operation. Of course, Serbia and Bosnia's co-operation is particularly fertile in the field of economy and this is very important and it seems to me that the main driver of improving good neighbourly relations. We know that the exchange during the COVID year was 740,000,000 euros, it is a 12% drop, but if you look at the overall situation in the world again it's a good message that the exchange is at one really envious level. The big thing really is the mini Shengen. Both countries played that crucial role in adopting this mini Shengen. It is a relatively good co-operation that existed between former Mr. Mirko Sarovic and Mr. Rasim Ljajic's former trade ministers. This one quality of mutual co-operation and one level that we have presented in the world has really raised the respect of all the products offered by these two countries. Co-operation during the pandemic is a special topic and I'm really glad that we've learned that we have the same problems, that we're common space in every sense. I have to thank the doctors from Bosnia and Herzegovina who came in July to help in a really difficult situation for patients in Novi Pazar and our institutions, of course, with the help of doctors from our country. Indeed, they were of great help, it was a very great gesture. The great gesture is also the gesture of our president who donated, of course, to the free neighbouring state of 10,000 vaccines and thus once again showed empathy and solidarity with the citizens of the Republic of BiH. This is something that should really be commended, because without regional access to all problems, and even this COVID problem will not come to a solution and any progress. I am really glad that the government of the Republic of Serbia and it has already been mentioned, has several times confirmed that it supports the opening of a diplomatic-consular representation of BiH in Novi Pazar and that is a great move. Last year, BiH presidency member Šefik Dzeferovic accepted the practical initiative of the mayor of Novi Pazar Nihat Biševec on the opening of the consulate. In this way, it will not only improve the relationship between Bosniaks in two countries, but this will represent a bridge of better and better quality co-operation between the two countries. We will support the bill to confirm the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges. There are 11 interstate bridges at the border between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For the people of Sandzak, they must be the most important bridges on Uvc, but they are important to us and other bridges across the Drina. Every relationship with the neighbouring country is of paramount importance. Once again, I would like to commend that initiative that we have shown, which is the initiative of little Schengen, which we have shown to European partners that we have the capacity and strength to erase each other's borders when it comes to economics. She said wonderfully by a co-worker from the SPS, that there is a tide of drawing of borders in the Balkans. I think the time has come to wipe the boundaries between us, between the people. It is a policy that the Social Democratic Party promotes and insists on. In the tide of populism and political conflicts and conflicts in politics, which today is the easiest vision to become politically popular, we need to be voices of politics, reconciliation and co-operation and mutual respect and respect. The progress of the Balkan states can only be common, as well as stability, it can only be common. The history of these spaces has shown us that we can all progress or no one. We in the SDP will strongly support the integration with our neighbours, the integration of the Balkans into the European Union, whose geographical, historical and above all civilizational parts we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5001	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Svetlana Milijac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5002	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, bridges are not just ordinary structures of wood, iron or concrete that cross some rivers, bridges are much more than that, those are hands that join the coasts and people. This law affirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between the two countries is, in fact, a major project for both the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina for reasons for achieving economic development, better trade development, traffic, cultural development. This increase will make markets more open, a basis for raising citizens' living standards on both sides of the river. New opportunities are being created, new opportunities are creating new opportunities and contributing to good neighbourly relations between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is prosperity in the region which is, in fact, a key element of progress towards EU membership. It is 11 interstate bridges between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, on three rivers. Tell Drina, Savi and Uvc. The Republic of Serbia committed itself with this agreement to the maintenance and reconstruction of six bridges across the Drina and these are the bridges of the Trubushnica – Šepak, Mali Zvornik – Karakaj, the bridge of King Alexander, which has a special historical significance between Mali Zvornik and Zvornik because it was opened by King Alexander in 1930. The bridge has not been reconstructed or invested in since 1930, Serbia will now invest. Bridge over Drina, the old bridge Ljubovija – Bratunac, the new bridge Ljubovija – Bratunac and Bajina Basta – Skelani. The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina has committed itself to the maintenance and reconstruction of five bridges across the Sava River and three across the Uvac River. What I particularly have is the particular weight of this discussion, is that I was born in Sarajevo and I grew up in Sarajevo, and proud of the fact that I live in the Republic of Serbia, which has a president like Alexander Vukic, not only the leader of this region but also the wider one, which they have confirmed and even the Croatian Evening List, and I am particularly proud of the fact that President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic has given his hands to all the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of what they are national and has allowed to receive vaccines in this pandemic and local people there, donating a certain amount and opened the door, or bridge where their citizens also came to our Serbia to be vaccinated. Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic stressed that the most important thing is to build good bilateral relations, build peace and stability between the two countries, strengthen economic and trade relations, and I will complete my presentation to Alexander Vukic, the president of the Republic of Serbia who said -- it is our job to create frameworks in which people will feel safe, that they can work and earn more and live better. Long live the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5003	I thank the People's Parliament, Svetlana Milijac. The word has a folk MP, Tomislav Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5004	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are here today a very important law relating to the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I will begin my exhibition by quoting the great Ivo Andric, the man who best knew the opportunities in these premises, but the writer who most described bridges as buildings connecting people. In his part, “The Bridges” the great Ivo Andric says in the first paragraph – of all that a man in his life instinct raises and builds nothing is better and more valuable than bridges in my eyes. They are more important than houses, more sacred and more general than temples, everyone's and everyone's equal, more persistent than other buildings, and they serve nothing that is secret and evil. When the words of our Nobel laureate are passed on today to the policy field, it gets parallel with the official policy of the president of the state and of our government to create an initiative to build bridges of friendship between the countries and the peoples living here in the region. It is this policy that positions our country as leader of the Western Balkans and President Vukic as leader of the Balkans. When we talk about the official relations between BiH and the Republic of Serbia, I will remind you, dear friends, that they were established on 15 December 2000, and since 2012, they are developing intensively and the officials of both countries have frequent meetings and visits. On April 2nd, President Vukic visited Sarajevo and presented the first 5,000 vaccines at the time and announced that at the end of May of this year the First Great Summit of Serbia and BiH will be held, where it will take part, both businessmen and statesmen of the two countries. The summit aims to accelerate co-operation, trust, and the openness of two nations, i.e. two states and three peoples. This particularly encourages a trade exchange that is growing from year to year and is increasingly important and BiH is our country's most important external and trade partner in the region. I will remind you that in 2012, the total exchange was 1.2 billion euros. We exported 852m euros in value of goods and services and imported 360. In 2014, the exchange was 1.4 billion. Serbia exported 993m euros and imported 403m euros. In 2016, the exchange grows to 1.5 billion euros. We exported 1.1 billion and imported 406 million euros. In 2019, the exchange reached 1.9 billion euros. Export 1.3 billion, import 600m euros. Had it not been for the pandemic, this exchange would have been over two billion in 2020. When this period, 2012 to 2020, totals nine years, we exported nearly 10 billion euros to BiH, namely nine billion 987m euros, and imported 4.14 billion euros worth of goods and reached a surplus of 5.8 billion euros. It best says how important trade exchange with BiH is. Most of all, we exported mineral fuels, oils, machines, boilers, plastics, drinks, alcohol, iron, steel, cereals. Of course, a major contribution to this constant growth has been given by President Vukic's initiative to introduce the so-called "Vučić". Little Schengen for free flow of people, goods and services. The 2014 floods and the current pandemic are the best reminder that the two countries and peoples living in them must co-operate. In this cooperation to build best relations, to mutual satisfaction and mutual benefit. We are particularly proud of the fact that Serbia is helping our people in Republika Srpska and other parts of the Federation of BiH. It's our right and our obligation. We build schools, kindergartens, help rebuild and build churches and all that contributes to the better and better life of our people. We are building two highways towards BiH, one from Kuzmin towards Sremska Rača and Bjeljina, he will continue to have his way towards Sarajevo, Banja Luka, and the other from Požega to Kotorman, and then from Visegrad to Sarajevo. Not only will these highways bring BiH closer to Serbia, but it will also bring closer to Bulgaria, Northern Macedonia, Greece, Turkey and other countries, and with the realization of the construction of a tunnel between Ljubljana and Osijek that is planned after the end of the pandemic, all this will further affect the development of tourism on both sides of the Drina River. We are investing in Trebinje airport, a future radar centre in Podrinj, as well as anti-urban protection in Republika Srpska. Our assistance to our neighbors in vaccines, medical equipment, respirators and everything life means in these difficult times, pandemic times. In just three days, 25, 27 and 28 March, more than 22,000 citizens and businessmen from BiH, Montenegro and Northern Macedonia were vaccinated in Belgrade and Nis. We were all able to see how those people who were vaccinated praised our country, our president and the health system of the Republic of Serbia, because they were unable to protect themselves in the country of origin. We are proud of this act, because we show that we are as a state and as a people of solidarity and that we want to strengthen trust and co-operation. But there are also those who bring criticism and even lies to this activity. It is about the media and supporters of Dragan Gilas and his business partner, Solak. They often serve news that it was about vaccines that expired, that it was about false solidarity, that it was about a false brotherhood and unity. The conclusion is more than clear – they cannot accept the success of their own country, because they only measure success when they are rich at the expense of their own people. Of course we SNS don't look back on these malice statements. It is our job to work, to build, to help others, because when we help others in a certain way, we help ourselves. It's perfectly logical and it's perfectly justified that we have one such agreement on reconstruction and maintenance of interstate bridges. The agreement defines work on 11 bridges, two on the Sava River, six on the Drina River and three bridges on the Uvac River. In addition to the work on the infrastructure itself, the two sides undertake to make all documentation available to the other side, in order to simplify customs procedures, thus speeding up the maintenance and reconstruction of bridges with smooth operation of traffic. In the day to vote, together with colleagues selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support the bill with the desire to build relations with us in the days, years and decades ahead of us with BiH, but also other countries in the region and the world with full respect, understanding of economic benefits and mutual satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5005	I thank Parliamentarian Tomislav Jankovic. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5006	I would like to thank you, Madam Vice President, my colleague Kovac. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, bridges have always brought people together and connected them for their needs. That is how it will be, and that is why this Agreement that we are discussing today in this high House is very important, the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the reconstruction and maintenance of interstate bridges. This agreement is important for two reasons. The first, in my opinion, is to strengthen regional infrastructure and the second, to boost bilateral co-operation between Serbia and BiH. Serbia and BiH should work to strengthen political and parliamentary dialogue, on the one hand, and on the other hand to boost economic co-operation and joint performances, economic performances with third-world countries, when it comes to the economic market. This is why joint infrastructure projects are important for connecting the citizens of the two countries. I would especially point out as my colleagues have so far done, Belgrade's Sarajevo highway, Serbia will fulfill its part of the job, when it comes to building 19km from Serbia towards Bijeljina, and building a bridge on Savi. Of course, when it comes to construction and gas pipelines that will connect from India in the Balkan flow of Serbia and BiH, the Trebinj airport, and many other infrastructure projects. Serbia wants active co-operation with the central, but also with the entity parts of BiH, we want co-operation in areas that are important for both countries, as someone who was born in Novi Pazar, and whose family lives below, in this part of Serbia, I want to point out how important it is for citizens, Raska, Sandzak, the important good relationship between Belgrade and Sarajevo. Serbia wants to understand the Bosniaks better, understand their needs and their priorities and state goals, but also, Bosniaks in BiH, to know that Serbia has a constitutional obligation to protect Republika Srpska. Serbia wants sisterly relations with Republika Srpska, wants to intensify and invest in the construction of this part of BiH, and we are bound by special ties Serbia has to do with Republika Srpska. I would highlight two important regional events as an example of humanity and solidarity between BiH and Serbia, which were floods that were in 2014, and this pandemic with the Corona virus. Also, it is very important to point out that because of the common future and regional co-operation remains an open call for BiH's "mini Schengen", it would make it very easier to move people, goods, services and capital and with this part of the Western Balkans. They encourage two very important events announced for future co-operation between BiH and Serbia. The first to announce Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, during a recent visit to Sarajevo, is a two-state joint summit that should be held here in Belgrade at the end of the summer and early in the autumn and should improve and open the borders of the two countries. The second is a joint military exercise between Serbia and BiH, after many years, to be held in Manjaca. Finally, I want to highlight and send a message that Serbia wants better and more intensive regional co-operation and the better economic environment for all countries in the region. The Western Balkan market is most important for Serbia after the EU. That's why it's important for us to trust each other and keep the peace. In the day to vote with my colleagues and fellow MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party, I will support this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5007	I thank the People's MP Dubravka Filipovski. The word is made by MP Mladen Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5008	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Momirovic, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am reporting and supporting the bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and BiH, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to the fiscal consolidation that we have carried out and the public finances that the yellow tycoons led with Dragan Gilas destroyed while they were in power, conditions have been obtained that we can discuss today on the topic of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the maintenance and reconstruction of 11 bridges on the Drina River. The project technical documentation is ready and needs to be started with the implementation of the agreement immediately after the vote of this draft law. I believe that as a state, we have a great relationship, or even, one of the best in the region with BiH. I will quote Mr. Milorad Dodik, president of Republika Srpska, an entity in BiH, who said: "We received more assistance from the Republic of Serbia during President Aleksandar Vukic than from BiH in 20 years. “ I will mention only some of the help of our country, both in the era of the crown of the virus and before the pandemic, and I will refer to the excellent speech of our colleague Sanja Lakic and I will tell the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia that in the past few years, the Republic of Serbia has helped Republika Srpska with over 59m euros. Help went in different directions. The Republic of Serbia has sent several times a single aid to build highways across Republika Srpska. 150 000 euros have been invested in the House of Culture in Nevesinj and Gradiška. We helped build homes of health, kindergartens and local communities in the Banja Luka village of Petricic, about 800,000 euros. In 2020, we paid over half a million euros for homes of health and schools in Šipovo and Mrkonjic town, and much more. During the coronal pandemic, Republika Srpska received the most assistance from the Republic of Serbia, she received 15 sanitary vehicles for health homes worth nearly 750 thousand euros. In May 2020, she received 10 respirators, 30,000 masks, 2,000 protective suits, 50,000 gloves, visors, medicines, etc. Also, President Aleksandar Vucic presented the Federation of BiH in Sarajevo on March 2nd of this year with 10,000 "AstraZeneka" vaccines against the crown of the virus. It's a matter of trust in one another. We do not live to gossip to each other in front of the EU. We need each other most, because we live with each other, side by side, and because we don't have anyone close to us. We expected help far more powerful than we are, but we rely on each other. We in Serbia cannot be happier if people in Sarajevo, if people in Banja Luka, Tuzla, are not happy in the whole region. Also, the representatives of our state agreed with the members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency to organise a large summit of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in Belgrade at all levels of the administrative government of the businessmen, to be the biggest summit we have ever made, the summit of trust and openness, to see the possibilities for us to open our borders to each other. I must say that the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2021 has set out aid for the construction of an airport in Trebinj of EUR 25 million. According to Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic, strengthening co-operation with Republika Srpska at the same time involves strengthening co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the goal of even better integration in the interests of peace and stability throughout the region. In the day of voting, I will support this bill and I call on my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children to do the same. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5009	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5010	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I will talk about the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. One of the most important agreements, because, above all, stronger bilateral relations and also much better co-operation in the region. I've got to do a little depression, so I'm gonna go talk to the minister. You were a very successful businessman, and today you're a minister. You're a very young man. I'm delighted with your dedication. You're everywhere, which means you're working and building, which is good for Serbia. Keep up the good work. I just had to say something like that because I'm glad you applied what our government is applying, which is work, order of discipline. Go ahead. As far as this Agreement is concerned, it is, in fact, 11 bridges, about the maintenance of bridges. The Republic of Serbia will hold six bridges, five will Bosnia and Herzegovina. Extremely important, the bridge connects, or at least that's how it should be, in my opinion, always connects, just maybe 100% of the one case it doesn't connect, with the Serbian Progressive Party, because we run a real, well-intentioned policy, both in the region and foreign policy. There's no telling how many agreements we signed. What does that mean? This means only strengthening bilateral relations and making friends. It's the best we can see through the many countries we've made agreements with. The People's Republic of China, with a lot of respect and friendship, as well as partnerships with relations with the People's Republic of China, of which we have only benefits. I'll talk about it later. Also, there is Russia, then, a complete non-classified block and with them, and then Israel, with them, we have extraordinary relations and all the other countries in the world, India. That's what we do, we make friends, which is what we see when we're supposed to get the vaccines. Today, half a million more vaccines came from the People's Republic of China. I think Serbia has received about three million vaccines at this time. So 2,600,000 people were vaccinated, and 1,100,000 were revaccinated. Once again, I have to say something very important that has not been mentioned today, which is that our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, has been vaccinated today. Why am I saying this? Because in January, the remnants of the opposition said that we would never get vaccines in our lives, and here today, over three million vaccines and four kinds of vaccines, that people would choose the vaccine to be vaccinated with. No one in the world has four kinds of vaccines, my people. That's how it works. We're lucky, but it's not a factor of happiness, it's our president's wise policy, because he's making connections, making these bridges figuratively, making agreements. Well, that's why we can boast and boast today, so they've turned our attention not to brag. We don't brag, we just bring out the fact that we're the best in the region. And that's not just me, that's what the people of Zagreb and the people of Sarajevo and the whole region said. We give these vaccines to people who don't have vaccines, because it's not luck that we're the only ones who are healthy, but the whole region, the whole world. And how will he be healthy? By getting everyone vaccinated. Why is it important that I said the president was vaccinated? Because the crowd of people said that vaccines are no good, who knows what's gonna happen to us, that Mr. President will never vaccinate, etc. Here, concubines, was vaccinated in the Rudni Glava, in the village next to Majdanpek, to see people in eastern Serbia that the president was vaccinated. If you look at the news today, you'll see how many people are in line because they trust the President of the Republic. As for Mr. Vukic, and his peaceful policies, I don't know where to start. I should probably say five days of what he's done since yesterday I heard the opposition call him a man who's losing his memory. I don't want to say ugly words, it's my president who's extremely respectful and I think that all the people who are here today with a drink and respect are talking about him. I think he'll go into history as the best president ever. And why is that? There are currently eight highways under construction. He finished Corridor 10, of course, Government, Ministry, Mr. President. So, he finished Corridor 10. It's building on Corridor 11. The Moravia Corridor is being built. The "Karadjordje" road will be built, the Fruskogorski Corridor will be built, the highway from Belgrade to Zrenjanin will be built, the highway to Sarajevo will be built. The highways are being built. It's the couplings. That's how investors will come. Then, here I am told by my esteemed colleague from Priboj, Mrs Milanka Jevtovic, that only three schools were renovated in Priboj. All over Serbia, the mass of schools has been renovated. You remember how they laughed, the concubines again, that we renovate the toilets. And what do we need children to return to the Middle Ages? We had what my colleague said, squatters. Should the kids get sick? It was – it didn't happen again. They didn't invest 20 years, 50 years in school. We're renovating whatever we can and as much as we can. We're building hospitals. And what if we hadn't built these two hoofs of hospitals, which unfortunately are full, one in Batajnica with 930 beds and the other in Kruševec with 500 beds? Now we're also starting to build a covid hospital in Novi Sad. Projects were made for Kragujevac, for the clinical center. We built a clinic in Nis. There will be a clinical center in Novi Sad again. We'll finish in a year our clinic that was being built, I think, 50 years. Only Vukic, President Vukic, ends everything that someone may have once started, sometimes not. He's done more than everyone else, 20, 50 times more. And that's true. We're not pretending to be important, because it's ugly, we're telling the facts. We bring out the fact that people know how things are. Let's just remember in 2008. Four hundred thousand people were fired. In 2008 and 2009, a thousand judges, prosecutors, and today 320 thousand employees, both with numbers and letters, were fired. There were 26% unemployed, today 7.3%. We'll be up to 5% in a couple of years. By 2025, the average salary will be 900 euros. Today is 540 euros, and let's remember in 2012 – 320 euros. Let's think of a minimum personal income. It was 16200. How much is it today? It's 32,600 today. So on all levels, we work in all structures. Look at “Belgrade on Water, ” what they did to us. First they said that we don't have a project, that we're made up, that we're bought, and today it's one of the most beautiful places to live, the most beautiful promenades in Europe, fantastic. We just build and work. I could do a lot of things like this, but there are a lot of other colleagues. I didn't mention little Schengen, an extremely important agreement for regional development, to connect people, and that means that an agreement has been made between the Republic of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. Data is the hand of both BiH and Montenegro to work together. Why did we make little Shengen? For faster regional development. The most normal thing is that someone who is a huge investor is going to invest in the region, not in individual countries. That's one. Two, it's free flow of goods, capital, people and what's most important, recognition of qualifications. Guys, we don't have any trades today. And what's even more important, and it's mentioned, that 900 euros will be in 2025, and already in 2026, 2027, I'm sure it will be, the average salary will be over 1,200 euros and I guarantee, young people are already coming back to Serbia, that then all people who work outside the country for the same salary and are tortured, much higher costs, come to our queen, into our most beautiful country in the world and live much better than they live there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5011	I thank the MP Ljiljana Malusic. The word has Minister Momirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5012	Dear Lily, thank you for these kind words. To be honest, I have answered the word somewhere in half of your presentation, but you have really covered not only this topic but also the broader aspects of the economic and in Serbia and our relations with BiH, so that I really don't have much to add. But I would like to point out once again that it is indeed a great privilege to have the opportunity to sit here and listen to you as MPs, my fellow Members, address. I'm not just talking about you right now, but also my colleague Boskovic, who really took such a tax on all the elements that cover this agreement in a broader sense, about our donations and our relationship with BiH in the previous year, frankly, and I've forgotten a lot of things, and it was more than useful to remind myself of how much we've been dating so far, helping the region, even though we, just now, in recent years, are coming out of some, conditionalally speaking, lagging behind. As you pointed out, what was the average salary, and what is it now? Maybe I could add that the unemployment rate was over 25% and today it's below 9%. These are all amazing results. counterpart Sanja Lakic really had one moving and firm speech, which leaves no one indifferent. I'd add maybe one thing I didn't say and it's dragging through here, it's about Belgrade-Sarajevo's highway. As you know, according to an agreement reached by our President of the Republic with Turkish President Erdogan, we are building a two-way Belgrade-Sarajevo highway. One is through Kuzmin, the Sremska Rat, which should go through Bijeljina, down from Tuzla to Sarajevo, and the other goes from Požega, Užica, Kotromana, and then through the Bosnian side, I'm not sure how they'll solve it, there are some dilemmas. We will end this part from Kuzmin to Sremska Raca, 18km through the Republic of Serbia, in 2023. The works on the bridge are going very well. Seven days ago, we opened our tracks. It's really one not too big, in terms of the length of the highway, but a very complex part of the highway and a very complex bridge. Our contractual obligation when it's due to end is in 2024. But when we sat down with the president, like the engineer. Mrkonjic spoke, he set us some new deadlines, namely for us and our partners that we can and must finish before the deadline, that is, in 2023, and this year we end up designing works from Požega, Užica to Kotoman. That's 60 kilometers, an extremely difficult stock we're planning, too, to put into operation very quickly. In this range of highways I often think about them whether this is real or not, that I didn't become some third-rate politician who tells fictional stories, but these are all real things. That no one, so probably I can't believe my words, what we're doing, what I see and don't believe, is just saying how successful this system is and how successful the President of the Republic has started all these projects. If we understood each other, these projects could have been without each of us from the government, but they couldn't have done it without the President of the Republic. And while I'm at his place and you've already mentioned that he's vaccinated today, I'd like to invite all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if we want to win this decisive battle right now, we all need to be vaccinated, especially people over 65 and 55, and then under 45. I would ask the citizens of this country not to subject themselves to the Duriantivaxer story and our fellow opposition colleagues and some suspicious characters. This is a story that is a decisive battle for the future of this country, the health of the nation and the economy of this country. If we vaccinate ourselves quickly, we'll be able to vaccinate our neighbors very quickly. Thanks again for the kind words, I would like to invite all citizens to enter the vaccination process as soon as possible. The vaccine has plenty, the vaccine is the most in Europe, only in Serbia can you choose vaccines, use that right. There are no negative effects of vaccination. Vaccinated only three million people recently. There is no expressed negative effect. Please, if not because of you, because of our country, because of our citizens, because of the future, because of our children, we protect our country and protect ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5013	I thank the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5014	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow citizens of Serbia, it is nice to see you closely following this assembly debate and paying attention to everything the MPs tell you, but it is nice to see you also visiting construction sites in Serbia. You're on your way, so I hope it stays that way, i.e. We hope it stays that way until the end of the term. This is proof that you are following a policy designed by the president of the country back in 2014 and in any case commendable to you. As regards the Agreement, or the Law that is before us today, you, Minister, have stated here at the end of this agreement the reasons why this agreement should be confirmed, in this honored home, which is why we should vote for it. Formally correct and accurate and formally enough motive for us to vote them out in this respected home. However, the reasons and motives for which we will vote are much wider than what you have stated at the end of this law, and these reasons and this law are, above all, one small segment of a general policy that this country, headed by the President, has been leading since 2014, and concerning, among other things, our people in the region and regional co-operation in general. That concern has been experiencing its peak for the last three, four years. And why in the last three, four years? After a serious fiscal consolidation, through which it has passed, Serbia has created opportunities to help citizens who live in it, help our country's countrymen, in the region. So, the benefit of Serbia's progress will begin to be felt by all who experience Serbia with their own country, as well as those who do not have a country of origin. We have witnessed the last days when it comes to vaccinations and a lot of other things. The use is also seen through the reconstruction of these bridges that we are talking about today. This, Minister, is proof of a serious policy when it comes to regional co-operation. This is proof that Serbia is headed by regional relations, that Serbia is a country that promotes peace and co-operation in the region and that Serbia is a country that cares for its people, certainly not violating territorial integrity, the Constitution and the laws of all other countries, i.e. The ones where our people live. This is proof that Serbia is providing a hand, its president, and the Serbian people to everyone in the Balkans. Alas, it's not always like that when it comes to the other side. You're asking me why? Well, here's your last example in Montenegro. Namely, the prime minister there has submitted an initiative to replace a minister belonging to the Serb people's Corps because of disagreement over some developments in the near history of the Balkans. Namely, there's Prime Minister Krivokapic filed an initiative yesterday to replace Justice Minister Leposavic, who expressed his stance on the 1995 bloody events in Srebrenica, which is exactly what the Serbian people's position in general and in Montenegro is, as well as the Serb people living in Serbia and Republika Srpska. Prime Minister Krivokapic hid by explaining this initiative behind the court's decision, but we all know the essence is quite different. The point is to silence the policies and political views of the Serb people in Montenegro. It is the true essence of this initiative – to silence the Serbian people. When the court's rulings are called on, then anyone with common sense can ask the question – what's next? The court condemned Gabriel Principe in 1915 and Gabrielo Principe died in the Terezin Fortress in the Czech Republic in 1918, not welcoming the end of World War I as a convict, a terrorist. Is there a new Serbian minister or Serb from Montenegro who will deny the decision of then's largest court instance that Gabriel is the principle of terrorism? When in the Ottoman Empire people were impaled by the decisions of the cadium, the judge at the time, it was by the decisions of the greatest judicial authority of that time. Is it some new minister or new Serb in Montenegro who will say that these people were victims and fighters for the freedom of the Serbian people and in Montenegro, and in Serbia, and in BiH, in the Balkans at all, and not convicts? In 1942, when crimes were committed in the area of Kolashin and dogs of the cemetery were filled, it was the judicial decision of the most important judicial instance of that time. Is it some new Serbian minister or some new Serb from Montenegro who says they were martyrs, victims of crime, and not convicts? They could list me here for a long time and make counter arguments about what the Prime Minister of Montenegro is doing today. But you probably can't expect anything else. Unfortunately, I have to admit, the president of the country spoke yesterday and I was hoping for something different with the new Montenegrin authorities. It will appear that not so much hope has been established, and what else was expected of Zdravko Krivokapic, who will connect the president of the neighbouring country, the Serbian president with crime and whose first political move, the foreign policy move will be when it comes to power? What else do you expect from him when he persisted in the persecution of the Serbian ambassador from Podgorica, then it is logical to expect a ban on the political attitude of the Serbian people in Montenegro? However, regardless of politics, action, Zdravko Krivokapic's views or any other politician in the region, Serbia's hand remains open. As the president said yesterday -- we will not be ashamed to help our people wherever they live, even in Montenegro, especially in Montenegro, in accordance with international law. If the opposite side or another, not to say such a hard word, the opposite side intends to do the same or similar, here is an example in the Serbian president and Serbian government, here is an example in one of these laws as it is in the Serbian parliament today. And let's make it half of it, we'll be happy. Minister, thank you, we will certainly support the law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5015	Thank you. The word has Minister Momirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5016	I'll be very brief. Of course I followed all the words, and I had to answer, because last time you did me in such a nice, subtle, elegant, elegant way, you kind of, mildly, if I may say, pressured me about Trebinje Airport and I think now I owe it to say what we've done over the last few days. We've speeded up the work group, we've opened up all the issues, keep in mind how complex the project is. We are investing a modern, not small, large airport in the neighbouring country, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is about sky, or air space control over hair in many responsibilities with the Republic of Croatia. We've opened all these questions, we want to do it at the highest level, because we don't want to invest in an airport whose sky is going to be controlled by a third party, we don't have to control it, but let it be controlled by the country of the airport. We're launching a tender for the project, we expect to design an airport in the next six months, get into the expropriation immediately, into the construction of the terrain. I expect, I can't guarantee by the end of this year, although that's our goal, if not next year we're going to work at that airport, and I think you've already said a lot about other topics. I'd just like to underline, once again, no Serb people will shut up. He couldn't even when we were in slavery for 500 years, especially not now when a strong state like this stands behind him, either here or in the region, anywhere else in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5017	I thank the Minister. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5018	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are here today a very important law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's about the maintenance and reconstruction of 11 bridges on the Drina River, the Sava River and the Uvac River. Under the agreement, the Republic of Serbia will maintain and reconstruct six bridges and they are located on the Drina, and Bosnia and Herzegovina will maintain and reconstruct five bridges. Two are located on Savi and three bridges are located on Uvc. Our Nobel laureate Ivo Andric wrote about bridges. It's "On the Drina Cup". As far as literature is concerned, Ivo Andric is unsurpassed, but as far as the construction skills, visions and missions of statesmen were concerned, since 1945, we have not had a statesman who was more involved in construction than Alexander Vukic. Since 1945, no more highways have been built through Serbia, no more railways have been built and reconstructed, no more bridges have been built, no more tunnels have been built, no more new airports have been reconstructed and opened. It's all done by the policy it implements, by President Aleksandar Vukic. In this sense, this Agreement is also very important from the aspect of the policy that it implements and implements and the President of the Republic of Serbia, and also from the government of the Republic of Serbia, as regards regional integration and the people and states, greater investment, faster and better flow and people and goods and capital, but the focus is on better everyday life of citizens living in these border municipalities, whether it is Priboj, whether it is Love, whether it is Bajina Basta, whether it is municipalities located on the other side of the Drina, which are Skelani, and Bratunac, and Rudo and other municipalities. What I must point out is that this Agreement and how significant it is from the perspective of further economic progress, both the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the idea of mini Schengen is the idea of Alexander Vukic to connect all peoples for greater and better economic co-operation, for faster and easier flow of people and goods, in order to make the life of an ordinary citizen, but also make our businesses better, more efficient and powerful. Was the economy ever the first, in the first place, and besides the pandemic Kovid 19 that affected the whole world? Never, to Alexander Wolfie. Was our health system even on the list of European Union metrics before we came to the power of the SNS and the policy implemented by Aleksandar Vukic? Never. She wasn't just on the list, because she was absolutely undetectable. Today, in terms of health, the Republic of Serbia is above 14 European Union countries. Today, the Republic of Serbia is the first in the number of people vaccinated. The Republic of Serbia alone in the world and its citizens allow citizens to have a choice between four vaccines to be vaccinated with. The Republic of Serbia was the only one in the world in four months to build two Kovid hospitals in Batajnica and Krusevec, and the plan is to build a covid hospital in Novi Sad as well. That regional integration is and that bridges are the integration of both states and people we showed right after the takeover of power in 2012. Namely, I must point out that the bridge connecting Ljubovija and Bratunca, the Bratoljub Bridge, began construction in 2015 and ended as regards the Republic of Serbia in 2017. In it, the Republic of Serbia invested 13m euros. We expect that the border crossing that is in BiH's command is to make the term and the border crossing itself possible as soon as possible, to improve transport and to make it easier for citizens to communicate between states. I must also point out that the Republic of Serbia, as regards the bridge between Mali Zvornik and Zvornik, which was built by King Aleksandar First Karadjordjevic in 1929 and which was released in 1930, restored between the other and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, giving 600,000 euros for the reconstruction of this bridge, which represents not only a link between the Mali Zvornik and Zvornik, but represents a cultural historical monument, an architectural monument and, of course, represents a tourist destination for this region. I must also point out that Mali Zvornik has, like all of these places, extraordinary tourist potentials because it is located on the riverbank and that is why tourism is a safe branch that can contribute to GDP growth. That relations between Serbia and BiH are really based on policies of peace, security policy, stability policy, integration policy, shows again the vision and mission of our President Aleksandr Vukic, which is building a highway towards Sarajevo that is actually going from two directions. One direction is Sremska Raca - Kuzmin, further towards Bijeljina, Republika Srpska and Sarajevo, and the other direction is the direction from Požega to Kotoman in the length of 60km, which will be continued naturally by the completion of the Preljina-Požega section, which is 30.9km long in which 450m euros are invested, very demanding, which is currently located two of the longest tunnels, with 51 bridges. Of course, apart from the highway that will continue towards Kotroman, and then via Visegrad, to connect Republika Srpska further towards Sarajevo, the government of the Republic of Serbia will invest 30m euros to rebuild the hospital in Uzic, which is also significant. Also, I must point out that unlike Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, Djilas, Tadic, who set the border between Serbs in Jarinj and Brnjak in the next month, the construction of the Jarinje-Kosovska Mitrovica road should begin, not to be ashamed of the holes and that road, but to be our mirror. I must also point out that a clinical centre will be built in Kosovo Mitrovica, that Kosovo Mitrovica has received the most modern laboratory for PCR tests, and I must also point out that there will be work in Gracanica, or reconstruction of the hospital, in order to improve the lives of our citizens in our southern province. When it comes to three bridges between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and on our side it is the border crossing of the Uvac, near the Municipality of Priboj, I must point out that the border crossing of Sarajevo Polje has been waiting for the opening for a full 25 years. The border crossing was opened in 2016 and it means faster flow of people who have daily needs both from the area of the municipality of Priboj to go to Rudo and the citizens of Rudo municipality to come to Priboj. The other two bridges will also mean the promotion and flow of people, goods, capital and economic integration of both the suburban municipalities of Priboje and Rudo, as well as the economic progress of our country as a whole. What I must also point out is that according to a survey conducted by the Vienna Institute of International Policy and Economic Relations, 90,000 young people returned to Serbia between 19 and 24 from 2010 to 2019. These are the young people who finished colleges, who returned to Serbia because they see the future in Serbia. According to the "Serbia 2025" plan, Serbia will have 1,200km of highways in 2025, a 900-euro salary and an average pension will be between 430 and 440 euros. That young people stay in Serbia and that our children live in their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5019	Thank you. The word is by MP Petar Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5020	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, presently there is an agreement that fully regulates the reconstruction and maintenance of interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is an extremely important law for us to ensure that the infrastructure between the two countries is of quality, to ensure the rapid flow between the two countries, the flow of goods and services, as well as the flow of all citizens. The Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have an extremely close economic and economic co-operation and to ensure strengthening between the two countries, i.e. strengthening our economies and economies of infrastructure is of paramount importance to us. It is also important to note that over 1.2 million of our countrymen, our brothers and sisters live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and business co-operation with them and strengthening economic ties are extremely important and extremely important. Serbia is today a leader in the region. We have the fastest growing economy, we have the fastest growth in GDP wages and pensions, but we are aware that if we want to continue to grow, if we want to continue our growth in the economy and the economy we need to team up with the whole region. As my colleague Sanja Lakic said, between the Balkan states, not counting Republika Srpska, there is one heavy burden of history that often holds us back, but in front of us are our children and the future that we must build for them, so history must be remembered, and the future must be nurtured and we must build all together. Serbia today is the fastest growing economy in this part of Europe, but Serbia is a country that provides an open hand of friendship and reconciliation with all Balkan countries. You know, when you have a problem in the house, the first one that always comes to your aid is your neighbors. We don't have any closer to each other. When the earthquakes in Croatia were devastating, Serbia was the first to come to help. When Macedonia, BiH, Montenegro needed respirators, the first to come to help was Serbia. Many did not expect this, but Serbia did show humanity and solidarity. This builds the future, thus building co-operation between all countries in the Balkans. That's what's important. Serbia has given concrete measures. We offer an open hand, friendship and co-operation with everyone. Serbia is the state that today has the largest infrastructure projects. We're building eight highways, Serbia's networked with a number of cars. Serbia has built a connection with Croatia, Bulgaria, BiH and other countries, and we are finishing construction with Montenegro. In this way, we can build a "small Schengen", a big idea of small Serbia building a common, economic and economic region of the Balkans in which we will be able to cultivate and build our economy, in which we will be competitive in Europe's market and where we will build together the future through economy and economy. Serbia is a country that has managed to provide enough vaccines for all citizens of Serbia with one serious diplomacy and great friendship with the leaders of the whole world, which is the friendship of our President Aleksandr Vukic. Only in Serbia can citizens choose the vaccine they think is the best vaccine they think will provide them with the best immunity. All vaccines are good and all vaccines give immunity. They lie to those who say it's not like that. Serbia is a state that has enough vaccines for all citizens, but we know that if we want to secure collective immunity, if we want to stop the crown, that we can only do so by the whole region being immunized. That's why we offered the vaccine region. We gave BiH over 10,000 vaccines, we gave Montenegro and Macedonia over four thousand vaccines individually to each country. We have offered vaccines to all countries of the region so that their healthcare professionals can immunize and that all health workers of the region can fight for citizens who have suffered from the crown. That's what's significant. Serbia is the only country in the region, but also the whole world that has opened its borders and has offered free vaccination to all Balkan citizens, but also to the whole world. Up until now, over ten thousand Balkan citizens have accepted the possibility, and we could read in the paper the positive experiences of many Italians who have come to be vaccinated and re-acquired in Serbia. The Italian embassy on its official site today has a guideline on how to get absolutely free, via e-vac, and receive the vaccine you want. Serbia is open because it wants to help. We have enough vaccines. We signed a contract with the Russian Institute to start producing Sputnik vaccines. We signed a contract with "Sinopharma" to start producing a Chinese vaccine. We'll have enough vaccines for everyone, but we also want our region and the whole world to have vaccines that are so necessary and that can help them. Serbia is proud today to see more than two million and six thousand people vaccinated, and over a million and three hundred thousand re-exploited. Serbia gradually builds collective immunity so that we can beat the crown. It's just amazing to me after everything we've seen, so much death, so much suffering, so much disease, that even today in Serbia there are people who don't believe that the crown exists, who don't believe in the vaccine and who don't believe in our healthcare workers. You know, health care professionals in the red zone spend 24 hours there. They're in a scuffander for four to six hours, wearing two or three masks, and someone's having a hard time putting a mask on their face. They wear gloves, they wear coughs, they sweat. In those four to six hours, they can't take one, they can't drink, they can't sit down to help those who are sick, your friends, your family, they give them water, they give them food, they give them medicine, they give them support when needed most. Have you ever wondered what my colleagues look like when they take off the scuffander and the mask? What do their faces look like? How tired are they? How many wounds and how many changes do they have? I want everyone to see the faces of my colleagues? These are colleagues from the Excavation who work in the curvature zone. This is Dr. Steve and Dr. Jelena, and these are many others and Dr. Neena, Dr. Milena, Dr. Dragan, Dr. Stefan and many others, not only doctors but medical technicians, nurses and others who are fighting for all Serbian citizens. This is my cousin, unfortunately, my colleague, who's in the Heiflow Respirator, he's wearing a fullface mask. This is a mask that covers the whole face, which provides oxygen under high pressure and high flow. It's a mask that wears 24 hours a day, 20 or more days, to avoid a respirator. This isn't the worst condition in which a patient can be found. Do you think he can beat the crown without brave doctors, who have left their families and who have consciously come to the front line to fight for all Serbian citizens and if they know they can get sick? On the other hand, we have something amazing. The Sava Square and a group of people who rejoice, who sing and dance. I wonder what they're looking forward to. What are they looking forward to? Are they looking forward to the deaths of over 5,000 of our fellow citizens? Are they looking forward to over 60 of my fellow doctors, sisters, technicians, who died fighting for them, fighting on the front line? What are they looking forward to? Trust me, they're not looking forward to it. My colleagues and I don't look forward, we suffer and mourn together. On the one hand, we have fighters, on the other hand, we have reckless people who don't know what they're doing. Imagine how my colleagues feel when after 12 or 24 hours in the zone they come out tired, eager of their families, eager for their friends and see a few people looking forward to, looking forward to and not wearing masks. Imagine and wonder how they feel? That's not the worst, some are bothered by strong Serbia, they're bothered by vaccination, they're bothered by the fight against herds. We remember all the lies that the crown doesn't exist, that the vaccine is a lie, that it will chip us, that we will become obedient, and that we will remain sterile, that we won't have any offspring and a lot of things? We remember them saying that the president won't vaccinate because he doesn't believe in the crown, and today the President of the Republic has vaccinated. The entire government has been vaccinated, and I have been vaccinated by many of my colleagues sitting here. We all believe in the crown, and we want to beat it. Now they have some new idea that the vaccine doesn't produce antibodies, so they do some tests where they try to confirm it, but the problem is that they don't know the basics of immunity. You know, when someone inoculates "Sputnik" or "Fizer", he doesn't need to do IGG regular antibodies. You need to do antibodies to a spike protein, and the results they have shown are actually these false results on ordinary antibodies that are vaccinated by “Fisers” and “Sputniks” will not develop. You know, to understand how the vaccine works and what immunity is, you have to know immunity. Immunity is such a complex thing that consists of 1.001 elements and that, even medical students, doctors find it difficult to understand. You know, antibodies are just the tip of the iceberg, they serve that when a virus enters a human organism that quickly binds to the virus and doesn't allow it to enter the cell, but even many people who have passed the crown don't have antibodies and they're not the only factor that will provide, security, safety to our organism. It's much more important than that humorous and celery response, which is b4, memory lymphocytes and natural blood cells. The white lymphocytes remember the infection for many years, and the next time the virus enters our system, they'll start producing a large amount of antibodies within hours, which will bind the virus and throw it out before it enters the cell, and even when the virus enters the cell, we've had an ultra-killer cell, these are the heavy killers that will destroy every cell that's infected and prevent the virus from spreading. You see, to talk about immunity, to talk about the vaccine, to talk about the crown, you must first look into the eyes of a man who fights for breath. You have to look into the eyes of the people's family when you tell them that their father, brother, friend, died of the crown, and that's not easy. It's easy for them to rejoice, to sing, to dance, when they haven't met the pain the family carries after losing their neighbor. Believe me, when I say that my colleagues and I don't celebrate today, we suffer, we mourn and mourn every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, every citizen of the world who died of the crown. We regret a family that must live with the loss of a father, a mother, a brother, a sister, a child or anyone else. We regret every young and old person who beat the crown, who is now dealing with the severe consequences of the crown. We suffer, we mourn, but we fight. We've been fighting for a year and a half already, and we don't stop, because we always remember that we won both World War I and World War II, that we've won poverty, destruction, bombing, vario and many other diseases just because we were together and we fought together, and we won't let a few destroy and destroy our unity. That's why I'm asking you all to vaccinate, to follow the measure. I want to offer one big thank you to all my colleagues who are today, who will be tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, as long as it takes to be on the front line and to fight the crown. And those who do not believe in the crown, who do not wear the mask, who rejoice, who sing, who do not believe that the virus exists, may come to Kruševac, Batajnica, Prokuplje, Nis and let my colleagues cancel for at least half an hour, to them it will mean a lot, and these people may at least feel what humanity is, and not a lie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5021	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Snow White Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5022	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are said to combine bridges and roads with areas and people. Of course, that is true in addition to that and how bridges on the Drini, Savi and Uvca rivers go between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today's session is on the agenda of the bill to confirm the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of the interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, there are 11 bridges to the three rivers mentioned, and in line with the signed agreement in Bratunc on 18 September 2020, which will be reconstructed and maintained in line with the needs. According to contractual obligations, the Republic of Serbia will carry out the maintenance and reconstruction of six bridges on the Drina River, two at the border crossing in Mali Zvornik, two in Ljubovija, one in Baja Basta, at the border crossing of the Trbušnica. Bosnia and Herzegovina will perform the maintenance and reconstruction of five interstate bridges on the Sava River, the Sremska Raca border crossing and three bridges at the border crossings on the Uvac River. Confirmation of the agreement will certainly contribute to further development and improvement of regional infrastructure as well as deepening bilateral relations between the two countries. The importance of the bridges in question and their safety is great and is particularly important for citizens living in border towns and who, due to their different needs and obligations, use almost daily. In addition to the importance of bridges at this time, I would like to highlight the importance and construction of new ones as well as the reconstruction and reconstruction of existing roads and roads which are also coming to western Serbia and bridges on whose reconstruction we are talking today. I come from western Serbia, from the town of Užica, and it is not easy for me to find the right words to express the importance of building the Milos Veliki highway from Belgrade to Preljina and to continue building from Preljina to Požega for all of Western Serbia, given all the problems and difficulties and insecurity of the so far journey to the Ibar highway. The distribution and safety of traffic and the construction of this section of the highway at a significant level contributes to the quality of travel. The announcement of the completion of works on the highway from Preljina to Požega for January 2022 is undoubtedly a new momentum for development throughout Western Serbia. This will certainly result in the development of new investors and the creation of new jobs and a better standard for citizens of this part of the country. The tourist potentials of western Serbia both those less famous and large tourist centres such as Zlatibor, Tara, Zlatar by highway construction will gain much more importance and I am sure it will significantly increase the number of tourists who will visit our region. Also, I welcome the announced new investment of three hundred million dinars at Ponikve Airport, whose release will use the infrastructure of faster safe and modern travel both domestic and foreign passengers to these parts of the country, whether they come in business, tourism or for some other reason. The future development of air traffic from the airport "Ponikva" next to the passenger opens up the possibility and development and cargo of transport traffic that will allow the transport of goods, especially the fruit variety of products in a fresh state to the farthest parts of the world. Here I primarily think of red gold, our raspberries, the best quality in the world, which is grown in large areas throughout western Serbia and which is an increasingly wanted product on the world market. On this occasion, I would refer to two other major infrastructure projects that are significant for us, both the Užičana and the whole Zlatibor district, and continue for all those who carry out transport and travel to Republika Srpska, BiH and Montenegro. The tours around Užica and the "Kadinjaca" tunnel towards Baja Basta continue towards Republika Srpska and BiH. Activities in the construction of the Užica bypass were started back in 1990, and the works were further started in 1993 and 2006 on the route of the entire bypass, the property-legal relations in the length of 4,846m and it was significant because it would remove part of the route of the state road from the city's narrow core, bearing in mind the unfavourable traffic infrastructure of the city as an intense transit traffic that is also passing through the city centre. Realisation of this project would solve the good part and long-term problems of Užizana related to aero pollution as a consequence of the impact of traffic. I would like to point out that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic just mentioned a few days ago that the tour around Užica, after so many years, 30 years from the beginning of the first works on it, will begin construction sometime in September this year. I hope the respected ministers of Momirović and you are familiar with the problem of this bypass and this part, and that by actually building this bypass, they will contribute to better, safer traffic, both the citizens of Užica, the city itself, and better and faster transit traffic. For more than 70 years, when it comes to the Kadnjača tunnel, it is spoken of by the Užih end. He would link Central Podrinje and Republika Srpska to the Zlatibor region and the Shumadi region. Since 2013 Bajina Basta and Užice have worked intensively to prepare the documentation and previous eligibility studies have been done so far, a general idea project and give location conditions. This level of documentation is sufficient to start negotiations on the construction of the Kadnjača tunnel and we hope that this will happen in the foreseeable future. I am sure that with your personal engagement and assistance and with the help of your Ministry, the Government of Serbia and the President of the Republic, all the infrastructure projects I have been talking about will be carried out within the deadlines and for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the voting day, I will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5023	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5024	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be very brief. Thank you very much for mentioning that tour around Užice. Indeed, we are very much talking about corridors in these strategic directions in which we invest a billion euros, but we must not forget that for many local self-governments, these are the very ones of life, the elemental quality of life, the basic conditions of life. At a meeting before the work of Preljina-Požega, we looked together at the problem that follows the highway "Milos Velika" and the president cut it off and gave us the order to quickly enter into the realization of not only the bypasses around Užica, but also about Požega, Gornji Milanovac, and Cačak himself by building this highway will be solved by the share between Preljina and Pakor. We have a first date Friday. We are on our way to this project of Užice-Požega-Gornji Milanovac to work fully. I don't want to specify all these deadlines now, but keep in mind that it will be really important and very high on the list of priorities of this ministry and that it will become part of the investment in the highway "Milos Veliki". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5025	Thank you. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5026	Thank you, Chairman. The Honored Chairman, respected ministers of Momirovic, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, respected citizens of Serbia, will talk about a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH, in the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and BiH. The bridges are a symbol of lasting value, as is often quoted today, our Nobel laureate Ivo Andric said in his part "On the Drina Cupria", bridges are symbols of a solid building, which is eternally present, while human lives are fleeting. That is why it is crucial for us to support this bill with a view to the future that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic advocates. Let's leave the demons of the past together and build a new future for the whole region, for the steps that the bridges of peace will take to the new generations. The agreement concerns the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges of the Sava River, Drina, Uvac. Through the plan and programme, maintaining reconstruction, which is not only a reconstruction, but also a whole new misery, stability in the region, bearing a pillar of peace that Alexander Vukic and SNS are the flowers of the new era of the Balkan peoples, light and symbol of the new foundation of the future. Alexander Vukic's policy was to build bridges of peace and stability. This dedication is best seen in this evil of the pandemic, which has hit us all through vaccines and medical equipment, everyone in the region, as in the time of the terrible earthquakes that hit Croatia, best seen the size of a statesman who, with the Government of Serbia without hesitation, has come to help, and that is why the people of Serbia voted and chose Alexander Vukic, whose only interest is the well-being of Serbia's citizens, but also the well-being of the environment in which we live. We also fight for our rights, to live in peace, for the right to personal dignity, and for the stability that we all need through, by restoring everything, but precisely everything that the former regime has spent in all due respects, and except for personal interests, there was nothing sacred to it, least of the people, roads that make up the blood flow of one country, and thus attracts new investments, the merits of Alexander Vukic and the Government of Serbia, hospitals, schools, museums, new factories and new jobs, were what Gilas and his horde of kletomanians destroyed for years, building only a network of personal interests, from the bridge on Adi, where the level still established and beyond, from bank accounts in Mauricias, Hong Kong, Moldova, Bulgaria, Switzerland, and who knows on which other tax, paradises, up to 68 million, but it wasn't enough for them either. Their only answer to the question of where the money came from is hatred for Alexander Vukic, his family, the SNS, the MPs, but also for all honest and free people who have the courage to kill Gilas, that question and ask. Do they have anything to say about Alexander Vukic's policy, which helps the whole region, in the European Parliament, for example The individuals who have huge support here, who led Serbia to the brink of destruction, the smuggling of hams and window washers Điki 619 million and its satellites Marinika Mauricias, Šolak from the Virgin Islands, Jeremic Patrik Hoa, the unrealized woodworker Obradovic, Borko Stefanovic, Pajtic, who have long bankrupted with politics, but are in their bank accounts, with strong money, who have been kidnapped by the people of Serbia, are only strong there. They're nervous today because they hear the hand of justice knocking on the door. Aleksandar Vucic assures Serbia to move forward with new hospitals, roads, factories, increasing wages and pensions, new jobs, but that on that road the entire region too, the people of Serbia sees it, but sees the whole world more and therefore lives Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5027	Thank you, Mr. Yevtovic. The word has a folk letter from Adriana Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5028	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and, firstly, respected citizens, the Committee of the National Assembly for Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications discussed and unanimously supported the proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and BiH. On a proposal from the delegation of the Republic of Serbia, it is agreed to apply the provisional entry into force of the Agreement on the day of its signing. Reason for the provisional application of the Agreement and the possibility of acting under the Agreement immediately after the signing of the Agreement, as the necessary technical documentation has been completed and it is possible to start the reconstruction immediately. In addition, certain bridges are in very poor condition, so they pose a security threat to all users. Given the fact that the Committee is leading an extremely high-quality and responsible woman, MP Katarina Rakic, whom I congratulate this time and on the appointment of the chairman of the Digital Security Parliamentary Network, I am sure that co-operation between the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and the Committee of the National Assembly and in the future will be not only formalised and institutionalised, but also effective and effective co-operation that requires mutual trust, and all in order to realise infrastructure projects within the envisaged deadlines. Republika Srpska is one of the two entities in BiH next to the Federation of BiH. The fact that the Republic of Serbia is the centre of stability in the region also tells the selfless assistance of the president of the Republic of Serbia not only to the Serbian people, but also to other peoples in the environment. Since my colleagues presented many facts and results and so as not to repeat ourselves when we talk about international relations, I will set an example out of my own life. My grandmother's a Bosnian. She was born in Kozarska Dubica. In the Jasenovo camp, she lost her father, uncle, uncle. As a war orphan, this very good and brave woman and her mother came to Bor and her more beautiful side of age was looked at for a third generation in Bor. Until the arrival of Aleksandar Vukic, we happened to be provoked on our way to BiH by the conductors, whether we are going for Bosnia or for Croatia's Dubica? Grandma always said we should go to Kozarska Dubica. Then they would rush into our compartments, waking us out of sleep, to show us that the Serbian people can't even feel safe on the train. Today, thanks to the responsible policy of Aleksandr Vukic and selfless help both Sarajevo and Srebrenica, as well as Banja Luka, Kozarska Dubica, Trebinj, Drvara, not only in vaccines when they need them most, but also in infrastructure projects we have excellent co-operation with our neighbours. People can't fool themselves anymore. People don't believe in someone's words, they believe in deeds. We have now come to the situation that in the bih, but also in the Republic of Croatia, their people are ashamed of individual political analysts who call everything that Alexander Vucic has done not solidarity, but pseudo solidarity. Not only by providing assistance, but also by initiating the idea of the Mini Schengen of the Republic of Serbia has confirmed its role as a pillar of regional stability and a bearer of development for the entire Western Balkans. Alexander Vukic is now the most sincere advocate on the issue of cultural, linguistic and economic barriers and the establishment of free flow of people, goods, capital and services. In addition to the reconstruction of 11 bridges at the border from BiH, the Working Group for the Reconstruction of Bridges at the Border with the Republic of Croatia was educated. Official negotiations are about to begin. The text of the Agreement in creating, maintaining the reconstruction of road bridges at the common state border has also been agreed. And on this occasion, I congratulate Minister Momirovic and his team on the results achieved and on the great dedicated work, despite the shameful attack and criticism of the minister and "The Imprint of the Week". Dear Minister, your actions speak far more than 1,000 words. That's why those who have never been able to do anything and who have left behind the ruins instead of bridges and can only speak. In the day to vote with the parliamentary group Alexander Vukic, for what is most sacred to us, - For our children, I will be especially pleased to support today's bill of law, as I did on March 25th 2021 at the Committee session, given the fact that bridges combine the coasts and people, to represent a symbol of life, love and friendship. For the end of my presentation to all Serbs, Bosniaks, I will quote to the Croats a sentence from the song of our famous Nobel laureate Ivo Andric, which reads: "Don't tear down all the bridges, you may come back. “ There was a peaceful policy by Alexander Vukic, a special thank - you to our president for being vaccinated today in the Borski Management District. Long live Republika Srpska, lived Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5029	Thank you. The word has Minister Tomislav Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5030	Thank you. Thank you, Adriana, for this wonderful presentation, thank you for mentioning "The Impression of the Week". When I got the call yesterday, I had to get out of bed right away and get back to the program, see what that "Stamp of the Week" looked like. I couldn't watch those young hopes of the opposition, indeed, Boris Tadic and Cedomir Chupic, but I believe that the people who played round Stefan Nemanje's monument... To be clear, Serbia is a democratic country, supporting us, above all, the President of the Republic, supports about 58%, 60% of people, there are people who vote for others, but when they see what young hopes go forward, I believe that they ran to play one round, so I couldn't very carefully follow it, but I had to look at myself as an impression of "The impression of the week," because I somehow remember "The impression of the week" from 2001, at that very difficult time when some real and real government had some obscenuous characters from Surcin, from Zemun, and some suspicious structures were indeed that supreme government... "The impression of the week" was then a show and now I see myself on that show as an impression, first and foremost mounted I stand entirely behind my words, there's nothing. I've said it all right, I'd say it all over again, even if it stood up to each other, I wouldn't change anything, but I'm not sure that this show of the assembly of my speeches can raise the ratings. The show from what was in 2001 turned into a personal account by the authors to the president of the Republic. I really can't understand that. Why? First, we all see the president as one historical figure, as a dominant figure, as a strong man, as a man who raised this country, then gathered the region despite the efforts, but I honestly tell you, since I know him a little closer, I know that he is, above all, a good man, that's what you can't see from the side, but if you know him that he's very empathy, very good, strong, and just. I just can't figure out that someone can mobilize themselves to that extent, put one whole show into function of an attack on one person, even though he was Alexander Vukic's historical personality and president of the Republic. On the other hand, I am more honored to have been part of that “sun of the week. ” Dear Adriana, we are very soon in July or August, do not hold me exactly in the day, we are starting investments in Bor, municipal infrastructure, four wastewater treatment plants, 105km of sewage infrastructure, 80m euros of Bor and Borsko Lake, we will solve everything in terms of municipal infrastructure. Bor will experience a completely different perspective with these investments. Bor is one of our priorities, and indeed, he may not be with what I said first, but he is an opportunity. We're moving very quickly into these investments, and I think the citizens of Bora will have something to be pleased about. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5031	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5032	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Orlic, respected ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia has shown its commitment to developing the region, unifying and connecting the peoples themselves, because we are all in this period and on our way to the EU, but we are fighting one of the biggest challenges lately, which is the fight against coronarys. Otherwise, the agreement that lies before us today is another in a series of important agreements that will help our country to connect better with neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina and, thanks to this agreement, as we have had the opportunity to hear from previous speakers, the countries will work together for the next period to maintain bridges that connect us across the Drina, Sava and Uvac rivers. Otherwise, these are bridges that bring our people together, which are connected through history, but unfortunately, the administrative borders are separated. Otherwise, in this way, as I said, we will be connected physically, and certainly thanks to the "Mini Schengen" initiative, whose initiator is President Aleksandar Vukic, and every invitation to join this initiative has both Bosnia and Herzegovina, there will be even better and stronger integration in other segments such as economy, culture, education, education, youth, trade. Otherwise, we have shown in this period that we can be champions, to fight for the interests and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but not only the Republic of Serbia, but also beyond. We are not only successful by the fact that in the previous period we have managed to build two coeds of the hospital in a record period, in four months, that we will build a new covid hospital at Novi Sad, that we have succeeded, thanks to the combatability of our President Alexander Vukic, and to provide a large number of respirators, who today serve to preserve the health of our citizens, to fight for their health. We have also obtained a large number of vaccines and we are a rare country in Europe that has the opportunity to offer its citizens four different vaccines when it comes to vaccines against the crown. What's very important to say is that it's not the point that we're just bragging about these results, but actually, we don't want to let other people, especially our neighbors, have problems suffering. In this fight, like I said, we're not alone, but we all participate together. We today, thanks to the successful implementation of the vaccination process, have about 26% of the single dose vaccine population, or 19% of the population that has been re-vaccinated or vaccinated with another dose. What I want to point out is how much we are committed and help our neighbours, that we donated a certain amount of vaccines and citizens of Northern Macedonia, that we donated to the citizens of Montenegro, and on March 2nd, we did so to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where five thousand doses of Astra-Zeneka were donated, just enough to start the vaccination process with them, especially by doctors, who, as our doctors, as our respected fellow doctor spoke, are fighting for the health of their citizens and they are fighting for the health of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that Bosnia and Herzegovina has become this way the third country of the former Yugoslavia that has received our assistance, and we are absolutely open and ready to help each of our friends who need help at this difficult moment. I will remind you that our assistance did not end, but that on March 23rd we donated to Republika Srpska 30 clinical and five transport respirators and 10,000 masks that will certainly help in their joint fight for the preservation of citizens' health. Not only is this the way we fought, but we have opened our borders, made it possible for the citizens of neighbouring countries to be vaccinated with us. We remember all the pictures from last week, where both in Belgrade and Nis, we had big crowds of other countries' citizens who came to vaccinate in the Republic of Serbia, so about 10,000 doses of vaccines were determined for the occasion. In particular, when we talk about businessmen not only from Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also from Northern Macedonia, Albania, Montenegro and Kosovo and Metohija, but also from other citizens from these areas, all in order to fight together, to get in the way of this monster, the coronary virus and to prevent the spread of new strains. While we fight to build bridges that will bring our countries together, that will bring us together with our neighbours, and in this fight we try to be unique. We have, unfortunately, those others who try to separate us and who try to tear down these bridges and who are the only ones who are dealing with are threats and quarrels. I mean, of course, to this famous out-of-parliamental opposition, to Gilas, Jeremiah, and to their associates, who, as we have seen, have recently started to argue with each other and to argue, no matter how hard they try to say they have just a simple reflection. We all know that's not true. While they were in power, the only thing they knew was that they were building bridges towards exotic destinations, where they were bringing money to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They put on their accounts that, of course, they used to make enormously rich and what they're doing today is just to keep that money on those accounts and all they're doing is just defending those misdemeanors, so to speak. In addition to building these bridges and connecting with exotic destinations, some of them literally built bridges to make that money. I'll remind you, I've also talked about it, it's the famous Adi Bridge built by Dragan Gilas. Let's remember that the initial value and the estimate should have been 160m euros and that eventually ended up at 400m euros and millions of euros. Today, thanks to the courageous journalists, we know where this extra money ended up and it's a miracle that it just didn't end up concretely only in exotic destinations, but also in some strange destinations, where people in those countries don't even keep money, and they found themselves smart to bring that money out there. In any case, this issue will be addressed in the coming period by the competent authorities and will in fact clearly show what these politicians, the current opposition, once people who, unfortunately, were working in power just to secure their money abroad. What's interesting is we've seen that their vanity has no limits, so besides the two things we know about, and that's the universe and human stupidity that have no boundaries, it's been successfully proven that their vanity is another thing that has no limit. In any case, such initiatives that we are talking about today, such as this agreement, are only one of a series of agreements that I am sure will be before us parliamentarians, which will allow Serbia as we know it today, which is strong, modern, Serbia that is developing, which attracts young academics from abroad to come back and live here and work, to connect even better with its neighbours. Of course, it is in the interest that the entire region is making progress and that the whole region can be even more efficient and better able to cope with the challenges that are now ahead of us and the future challenges that will be ahead of us. Mr. Minister, in the day of voting with satisfaction I will, together with my colleagues from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, support this proposal for an agreement, because we have all seen in the discussions of colleagues before me, and I am also sure in future discussions how important this kind of integration is for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5033	Thank you. The word is Tiana Davidovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5034	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges, which is on the agenda today, contributes significantly to further development and improvement of regional infrastructure, as well as deepening bilateral relations between the two countries. What I must point out is that Serbia has made a major shift in the construction of road infrastructure and is ahead of countries in the region. The development of infrastructure is, above all, important because it promotes economic growth. Without road infrastructure, there are no new investments, as well as the creation of new jobs. The road network in Serbia consists of more than 45,000km of state and municipal roads, with 925km of roads waiting. What we found when the SNS, led by Aleksandra Vukic, came to power and when it comes to the construction of road infrastructure in our country, are a number of problems such as unresolved property-legal relations, as well as delays with projects that have resulted in penalties being paid to suppliers. It is a period when projects often announced that only ideas and periods of work have been opened several times, and only 63 km of highways have been built in 2000-2012. In the post-2012 period, the construction of road infrastructure became a priority. In addition to building new highways, it was also working on maintenance of the road network, where over 4,000km of state and local roads were restored, most of which were first paved. Let's just say, just in the Lazarec municipality, it's been reconstructed over 200 miles of road. Since 2012, 362 km of highways have been made, under which the southern and eastern arms of Corridor 10 were completed, which represented one of the most demanding construction projects in Europe. Also, part of Corridor 11 has been done within 120km, which connects Belgrade and Cacak. Currently, 262km of highways are being built in Serbia, under which the Moravski Corridor takes a key place in the length of 112km. Along with the completed and started highways by 2025, it is planned to build 435km of highways and over a thousand kilometers of fast traffic. When the planned highways of Belgrade-Zrenjanin-Novi Sad, Belgrade-Vršac, Vožd Karadjordje, Požega-Boljare, Ruma-Sabac, as well as other shares, Serbia's road infrastructure will be completely changed, which will significantly facilitate travel through our country, but will also contribute significantly to our economy. One of the key preconditions for Serbia's further development will be reached. In the day for the vote, the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", will support this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5035	Thank you. The word is Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5036	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will also express my satisfaction at the beginning of my presentation that an agreement is on the agenda aimed at maintaining and reconstructing bridges between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is one of the numerous evidence that Serbia is leading a policy of peace in the region, that it advocates stability, faster and stronger economic co-operation and reconciliation. There is no doubt that it is a genuine intention of Serbia's state leadership to lead a serious and responsible policy aimed at economic development, to create new jobs, to increase the standard of living and to improve the lives of all citizens in the former Yugoslavia. But let's see how the Bosniak political, religious and intellectual elite react to this policy. Does it accept Belgrade's extended hand of co-operation, whether it accepts this well-intentioned policy, benevolent policy or not? Unfortunately, officially Sarajevo, Bosniak politicians, led by Bakir Izetbegovic, have been leading almost 26 years since the end of the war, a policy of spreading hatred and intolerance towards Serbia, Republika Srpska and the Serbian people. I'll just give you a few examples. Bakir Izetbegovic repeatedly reiterated that there is no reconciliation, that there is no trust between Serbs and Bosniaks until Belgrade and Banja Luka recognise the non-existent genocide in Srebrenica, until they give up, according to Bakir Izetbegovic -- depraved policies. The top Bosniak religious chief in BiH, Husein Kavazovic, also repeats that, as well as Republika Srpska's vice-president from the Bosniak order, Ramiz Salkic. In addition, Bakir Izetbegovic publicly declared that Serbs are a bad nation, that Serbs are prone to killing their neighbours of Bosniaks, that Serbia has committed aggression against BiH and there is no reconciliation until Serbia admits that it was an aggressor, that Republika Srpska was created on genocide and mass crimes against Bosniaks, that the adoption of the Declaration on the establishment of the Republic of the Serb people in BiH, later named Republika Srpska, on January 9, 1992, the beginning of all evil, was the beginning of genocide on the Bosniak people. Are these messages of peace and co-operation of official Sarajevo? Unfortunately, they didn't. I would like to say to this occasion, as far as I'm concerned, absolutely no reconciliation and trust between Serbs and Bosniaks is possible until the Bosniak political intellectual and religious elite has given up on the most hopeless lies and fiction that genocide has occurred in Srebrenica. There was no genocide in Srebrenica. In Srebrenica, one of the numerous crimes took place, unfortunately, in the area of the former Yugoslavia, and those crimes were all three sides, or all the warring parties. How can we accept the decision of the International Court of Justice in The Hague in 2007 that genocide took place in Srebrenica when the decision was based on the unjust, biased and false verdicts of the UN tribunal? How can I accept that genocide took place in Srebrenica when the same Hague tribunal, whose verdicts were, I repeat, the basis for the International Court of Justice's decision in The Hague in 2012, when in 2012, the UN tribunal reached a shameful, scandalous verdict on the release of Croatian Generals Ante Gotovina and Mladen Markac, and the Second step, by reputing three to two, even though the first step was almost a consensus that Gotovina and Markac were the participants of a joint criminal enterprise headed by Franjo Tudjman, whose aim was to banish the Serb people from the Krajina area, and at that time mass crimes were committed, systematic robbery, arson and destruction of Serbian property were committed. How can I accept that genocide took place in Srebrenica when the UN tribunal made shameful and scandalous decisions on the release of war criminals and one of the so-called commanders. The BiH Army in Srebrenica of Naser Oric and terrorist Ramush Haradinaj. How can I accept that genocide took place in Srebrenica, when numerous UN tribunal rulings against members of the Serb military and political leadership from Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska and SRJ are largely based on false testimony from witnesses. There are facts that have been found that the court has not sanctioned the impertinence of the lies of those witnesses, although based on these false statements, some people are sentenced to life imprisonment. How can I accept that genocide took place in Srebrenica, when more than 3,200 Serbs killed in the medium Podrinj area from 1992 to 1995 are shamed. Since April to December 1992 alone, more than 400 Serbs in the Srebrenica municipality, more than 560 Serbs in the Bratunac municipality, were killed in the first year of war, and 43 Serb villages with over 100 villages were destroyed, more religious objects destroyed, crosses in Orthodox cemeteryes. Most of the killed were Serbian civilians, women, children, old men. Those victims are kept silent. We cannot talk about any reconciliation between Serbs and Bosniaks until the same standards are established among other things in war crimes trials. It is unacceptable that in early July when more than 3,200 Serbs were killed in Bratunc, the death of Serbs in central Podrinj, so in municipalities and Srebrenica, and Zvornik, and Bratunac, and Milic, and Šekovici, and Vlasenica that none of the representatives of Bosniak politics would come to Bratunac to bow down to Serb victims, and then seven days later, representatives of the International Community come to Potocara and there are only groping Bosniak victims and only talking about genocide. That's not Sarajevo's well-intentioned policy. It is politics, I repeat hatred and impatience towards the Serbian people, against Serbia, Republika Srpska. I strongly advocate reconciliation between the Serb and Bosniak people, but that reconciliation and sincere co-operation can only be established in the full truth. Serbia strongly supports Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty and territorial integrity and a consistent respect for the Dayton Peace Agreement. What does Bakir Izetbegovic say? He does not recognise Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. He establishes best relations with Pristina and says he regrets that Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot recognise a false state of Kosovo. Is that a good neighbourly policy for official Sarajevo? Are those the same standards? Of course not. We have the same or almost similar policy by the official Zagreb. So, I support this Agreement, I support Serbia's sincere intentions to establish the best relations in the region, but I am afraid that, I repeat, it is not possible to reconcile between Serbs and Bosniaks until the Bosniak elite faces the criminal policy of Ali Izetbegovic, until they reject that policy until they accept the same standards in war crimes trials, until they respect equally all victims of both the Serbian and Albanian, until they give up false accusations and heartless lies about the Srebrenica genocide, about Serbs being a bad people, about Serbs being prone to killing their neighbours of Bosniaks, until they honestly accept the Dayton Peace Agreement, until they accept the sincere Republic of Serbia, until the Bosniak representatives arrive in Banja Luka on 9 January and sit there with representatives of the Serb people. That would be the honest policy of official Sarajevo. In the end, I want to say that in the voting day, I will support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5037	Thank you. The word is Mirela Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5038	The respected chairman, respected MPs, respected ministers, respected Serbian citizens, BiH has a real and sincere friend in Serbia that shows this with respect for territorial integrity and strengthening economic and political ties. Serbia's most important and most important friendly gesture is the donation of the vaccine delivered by President Aleksandar Vukic in Sarajevo. Today, when all countries close within their own frameworks, Serbia has shown by its example that it can be done differently. We have also shown that as a region, we are also committed to mutual co-operation. President Alexander Vukic has shown us the path to go, and that is the way to the future. One of our basic objectives is certainly co-operation in the area of economy, i.e. improving economic co-operation in all segments. Also, Serbia is committed to strengthening co-operation between the countries of the region and that is the only way the whole region is progressing, because we are all Balkan peoples and only by mutual co-operation and agreements we help ourselves. During his visit to Sarajevo, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic initiated a large summit of Serbia and BiH attended by all levels of government, as well as businessmen of both countries. That Serbia and BiH's co-operation is good, especially in the field of economy, shows that the trade exchange at the time of the virus's crown amounted to a billion and 740m euros. Also, co-operation is seen through investment, Serbia is third in the countries that have invested in BiH. The agreement between Serbia and BiH on maintenance of interstate passenger bridges is also another sign of good co-operation. This agreement clearly defines the obligations of the two countries. Serbia has taken over the maintenance and reconstruction of six bridges, and BiH has taken over five. Infrastructure and integration are the key to faster development. The more joint projects, the more common agreements are certainly good news for Serbian citizens, for BiH citizens, but also for the whole region. The result of these projects and the result of this integration is certainly a better future for people living in these areas. Also, today I have to mention the Sarajevo-Belgrade highway. It is the first highway to connect Serbia directly with Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is a road, a highway of great importance for businesses, for tourism, or for the whole region. Today, Serbia is building highways. Today, Serbia is building ways of peace. Serbia is a strong and stable country, valued in the region as well as in the world. Serbia is today spoken of with respect. We have a strong and stable economy. In these difficult times, we help both the economy and the citizens to go through a crisis caused by the coronary virus together, and we also build good neighbourly relations. Thanks to President Alexander Vukic's responsible policy, Serbia is now going through development and progress with the goal of creating its citizens a decent and dignified life. In a voting day, I will be pleased to support this agreement, as this agreement and all joint projects and all joint agreements write Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina's new future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5039	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5040	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Orlic, Honored Ministers, Honored People's MPs, Honored Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia has been defined for construction, according to our honourable MP Marijan Risticevic, bridges, not walls in the region and the world. For peace policy, solidarity policy, security policy and a policy of accelerated economic development, and as I often like to say, and the engine of accelerated socio-economic development is our esteemed President, Alexander Vukic. Dear People's MPs, we are particularly interested in co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in the Republic of Serbia and the Muslim-Croatian Federation, regardless of our past and treatment of the past. The past can and must be explored on the basis of historical sources. That must be done by both us and the Bosniaks and the Croats for our future. When it comes to the unfortunate war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are unlikely to agree yet after the treatment of the past with Bosniaks and Croats. The same goes for Srebrenica. Science, ladies and gentlemen, we must give priority, searching for the truth, even if it engulfs the most sacred foundations of a single nation. When it comes to Srebrenica, the most important thing about Srebrenica is that it killed itself in its area from 1992 to 1995. The Serb population in Srebrenica was massacred by Muslim forces. The Serb population in Srebrenica, about 1,500 of them who did not escape, were all killed and houses burned down. At that time, the commander of the Muslim forces was Naser Oric, who was not convicted of war crimes or crimes against humanity. The final list of Serb crimes in Srebrenica and the surrounding area is 3.262 and 880 were killed by military and police forces, while 2,382 were victims were civilians. The majority of Serbs died in 1992, more than 71% of the total number of victims in the area. However, the so-called international community was blind and deaf to these bloody Serbian innocent victims. Muslims burned about 200 nearby Serbian villages. The main responsibility for that part of the war and those deaths were borne by Western statesmen who recognised Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence before the agreement of its three constituent peoples of Serbs, Bosniaks and Croats, knowing that this act would lead to war and bloodshed. After that, the Western forces led by the United States were mined, as you know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Lisbon Treaty of 1992. It was the initial chapel for the start of a bloody war in BiH. Kutiller's plan to implement the Lisbon Agreement was based on three pillars of BiH's sovereignty, the equality of three constituent nations and cantonisation. It was a chance for peace. After withdrawing signatures from Kutiler's plan by Ali Izetbegovic, the deal failed, as Clinton called him, he agreed at the beginning, withdrew the agreement, and the war began. The West couldn't have done it if it hadn't been for Ali Izetbegovic. Ali's question, I'm undermining, would you sacrifice peace for independence, answer to sacrifice. So did Dr Franjo Tudjman in Croatia, who said, I quote - the war would not have been if Croatia hadn't wanted it, but we estimated that only by war we could choose Croatia's independence. That's why we held political negotiations, and behind those negotiations we kept arming our armed acts. So, we Croats could have avoided war, and would not have achieved Croatia's independence, finished quote. You see, ladies and gentlemen, I would like Croatian and Bosniak historians to really give relevant elections and to face, not only in scientific journals, or books, but also in parliaments. Did the genocide really happen in Srebrenica? This does not depend solely on what is meant by that notion, it depends solely on what is meant by that notion, not on what was the UN tribunal's verdict in any individual case. That's very important. I'm sorry, but I really have to give the genocide definition here, because that's what we have problems with. What's genocide? A series of actions aimed at destroying a national ethnic, racial or religiously defined human group. Genocide means the existence of a special intent, undermining this, special intent to commit genocide so-called. Dolus specialis, because without it there would be no genocide regardless of the number of victims, it would be homocid i.e. about killing people, and that's not genocide. Let me paint the citizens, genocide, the preparation period happens before the war murders. For example, in 1990 in Gospić, in a pre-election rally, Stjepan Mesic said, among the ten thousand Croats, the rain was falling, held ten thousand umbrellas, and he says I quote - when we Croats get the state, all Serbs will stand under one umbrella. So before the war, they intend to destroy that people, etc. So that would be genocide, and in that sense, the genocide was in NDH in 1941, but also in 1945, because we have before the war in Croatia, at least I have about 200 quotes of Croatian statesmen, who intending to show that Serbs should be expelled, destroyed or cataclysed. As you know, respected citizens, great lies have been made in BiH when it comes to the Serbian people due to demonisation. The aim was to demonize Serbs to bomb him and then destroy him. I will, for example, be one of many lies was that the Serbs in BiH held 47 rape camps and allegedly raped between 20,000 and 120,000 Muslim women and that was a simple fiction in order to demonise the Serb people. However, the UN War Crimes Commission presented a number of 330 documented rape cases committed by all three sides in the conflict between both Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats. Thus, a Muslim woman, who testified that she had been raped by Serbs and had remained in her condition, gave birth to a black child in Geneva. And that's when you throw it in the press all over the world, then you really demonize it in every way. In addition to the US-led international community, the main enemy of Serbs was individual Serbs. It is hardly known in history that some people, representatives of some people, through statements of their elites themselves, are as demonized as some Serbs did. In fact, Hegel's prophetic thought is being realized about how, after the fight ended, the defeated party took over the ideology of its masters. At the time, political elites in Serbia tell exactly the lies their US masters impose on them. The West has greatly rewarded individuals. I'm only going to one case I can give you hundreds of cases, because some people are alive today are current in politics, but one case. Thus, an independent journalist named Miroslav Filipovic, a correspondent of the list "Today" from the Royal West, declared his alleged objectivity to be an internet journalist of the year after this Serbian, the great one from the Kralje, wrote about the so-called foreign press. The crimes of the Serb army in Kosovo during NATO's humanitarian aggression. Please pay attention. His statements, allegedly from witnesses, came down to the following, in front of the Albanian parents, severed the heads of their underage children, selling their parents 5,000 marks, killing at least 800 Albanian children under the age of five. Furthermore, Serbian forces never came across, according to Filipovic, KLA terrorists, Serbian tanks served to kill Albanian children and civilians. What is important, Filipovic was convicted of spying by a military court for seven years in prison, but was released by fifth October revolutionaries. Look at the wonders, he released him by his service as Vojislav Kostunica on the pressure of the late US Vice President Zoran Djindjic and the dossovites of all the chiefs. Believe it or not, at the exit from the military court in Nis, he was welcomed by a farmer in an attempt, Zoran Zivkovic, Mayor of Nis, and later, unfortunately, by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, with a bouquet of flowers welcomed him, later became State Secretary in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not to quote further, and these people are still current today. There were also no rape camps in Republika Srpska, and they claimed there were hundreds. Besides, it was best witnessed by one of the Serb's greatest haters, Bernard Kouchner. He invented in the beginning of the war that Serbs owned rape camps. However, he must have felt guilty, yet in 2004, I quote -- there were no death camps, as terrible as if those places were, I thought my allegations would cause Serbia's bombing, finished quote. There was no genocide in Srebrenica, ladies and gentlemen. The Srebrenica project was designed by Bill Clinton, Ali Izetbegovic and Dr Franjo Tudjman. Clinton advocated that Serb forces enter Srebrenica and execute the massacre of Muslims, and would then bomb the Republika Srpska. The SDP president of Srebrenica, Musliman Hakija Meoljic, also testified about it, and the honourable MP last time spoke, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, and today one MP is alluding to his discussion as if it were not true, he was indeed quoting, and here I will repeat that quote. Meholjic said, I quote -- you know, Clinton offered me in April 1993 that the Chetnic forces, the Serb forces, so they called them, entered Srebrenica, committed the massacre of 5,000 Muslims, and that military intervention would be completed. One of the greatest haters of the Serbian people, former French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner, admitted that there were no mass graves, not only for rape, but also for mass graves, and his previous estimates aimed at bombing Serbs, etc. That I don't bother you very much with these quotes as you can see, it's not about these quotes from Serbs, it's about foreign sources. If no genocide had occurred in Srebrenica, the first UN peacekeeping commander in Sarajevo, General Luis MacKenzie, also confirmed. He said I quote - it's untasty to say, but it has to be said, if genocide seems then women are not released, because women are the key to maintaining a group that wants to be destroyed, finished quote. As you know in Srebrenica they were released during the wars, women were released. Dear MPs, the claim that Serb forces killed about 8,000 Muslims has never been or will be proven. It's a simple construction that was commissioned by the United States, or Bill Clinton, so that he could bomb Serbs. Joseph Bodanski of the International Association for Strategic Judges in Washington, an adviser to the US Senate for Terrorism, called a figure of seven thousand killed in Srebrenica an ordinary misinformation. He says, I quote -- all the independent forensic evidence points to a number of several hundred Muslim victims and probably in the lower hundreds. The continued insistence on a high number of Muslim victims also serves to conceal the previous killings of civilians in the city by Muslims, a final quote. It's at the beginning of my speech, I was talking about three thousand Serbs in Srebrenica and the environment, which unfortunately is rarely spoken of. Philip Corwin, at the time of the Srebrenica war, was an eyewitness, but the UN's top official. He said in his research project, I quote – the facts presented in this report are a clear argument that the figure of 7,000 killed, often handled in the international community, is an unsustainable exaggeration. The real number is probably closer to seven hundred. It's a finished quote. Until his death in 2012, Korvin repeatedly claimed that Serbs had killed about seven hundred Bosnian Muslims and that the difference between the number and eight thousand that are constantly being propagated was purely political. Dear People's MPs, Serbs, Bosniaks, Croats should turn to the future and co-operate in all fields despite a different view of the war past. The past should be studied but should be studied by professionals historians based on historical sources, searching for the truth as bitter as it is for the people concerned because it seems healing. It's the only way we'll all have a happier future together. In the end, respected citizens wouldn't do Mr. Gilas any good. While our President of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, daily returns our country's international reputation, not only in Europe but throughout the world, implementing a policy of peace, as you see solidarity policy, not only in the region but also in the wider, the health policy of all our citizens in the country and the environment, the policy of accelerated economic progress in these difficult pandemic times, the bastard, Dragan Gilas, makes everything possible to preserve his huge millions and euros and dollars in the accounts of Mauritius, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Bulgaria, Croatia, Hong Kong, and God knows which other countries. God help him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5041	Thank you. The remaining time for discussion is 35 minutes. The word is Anna Beloica's folk emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5042	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, is today ahead of us another agreement that speaks of Serbia as one prosperous country, a country of progress, a country that continues to bring down historical successes by believing in itself, in its strength and of course in its people. For this reason, I truly believe that the honourable MPs sitting in this high House will accept such a defined agreement and will, of course, accept it in the voting day, I will certainly do so, along with my MP group. Today's agenda agreement, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH primarily concerns the reconstruction of 11 interstate bridges, road crossings across the Sava River, Drina and the Uvac River. This is of paramount importance to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as well as to the citizens of BiH. This is an indicator of the policy implemented by the SNS, a policy implemented by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and, of course, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is certainly a policy of integration, peace and stability in the region. We best showed this a few days ago, when we organised free vaccination for all citizens from the region, so for foreign citizens, as well as for businesspeople from the region, and there were those from Albania, those from BiH, those from Croatia, which is precisely an indication that Serbia is an absolute leader in the region without a doubt in this part of Europe. To get back to the deal. In this agreement, it is defined, i.e. Serbia has actually committed to reconstructing six bridges across the Drina River, while BiH has committed to reconstructing two bridges across the Sava River and three across the Uvac River. It is the bridges that connect people, that erase differences between people and whether we plead as Serbs, as Bosniaks, as Croats, we are all fundamentally equal to them and we all have the same needs and we are all human. That's what our esteemed Nobel laureate, Ivo Andric, was talking about, and if you let me quote for a moment: "Of everything that a man in a life instinct raises and builds, nothing is better and more valuable than bridges in my eyes. Everyone's and according to each equal, useful, raised up in a place where the greatest number of human needs is crossed is more persistent than other buildings and serve nothing that is secret and evil." So by investing in bridges, we invest in connecting people, in meeting basic human existential needs, and therefore this agreement, which is on the agenda today, has great importance, above all because it deepens bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and BiH and, of course, promotes the improvement of regional infrastructure. Unlike those who have destroyed this country for years, leaving it without any perspective, without any hope that tomorrow will be better, unlike those who invest money in any secret accounts, we are investing in bridges, investing in roads, investing in raising the quality of life for all our citizens. It is you, today, who predicate that lies and manipulations come back to power again, in order to end what they started and not choose the means to deal with all who are willing to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia the truth in person, which is, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that you have been robbed for years, that a piece of bread has been taken from your children's mouth, that you have had an economy that has been destroyed and in which only companies of certain political leaders have functioned. It is, respected citizens, that you had one economy, one state where the inflation rate was 11.5%, in which the health system was completely destroyed, without being restored, reconstructed and one hospital, and one home of health, that you had a state where the security system almost existed and that, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you could not have had the hope that tomorrow would be better. In contrast, we trust the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections and receive exclusively our efforts and results. This is best confirmed by recent research conducted and which says parliamentary elections are now in order to support as many as 58% of Serbian citizens. I will remind citizens of the Republic of Serbia that as much as 70% of the 2021 budget has been defined for capital investments, for infrastructure projects. At this point, then, we're building as many as four highways. It is the Cačak-Požega highway, Čačak via Kruševac to Pojat, Kuzmin-Sremska Rača and the highway and the fast traffic of Ruma-Shabac-Loznica. By the end of 2021, we will be the only economy in Europe to build as many as eight highways at the same time. So we're building four new highways, which are: the Fruskogorski Corridor, the Moravski Corridor, the highway from Požarec via Velika Gradište to Donji Milanovac and, of course, the Belgrade-Zrenjanin highway. Despite investment in road infrastructure, we are putting the accent on investment in railway infrastructure, so that at this point a fast track is being built from Belgrade to Novi Sad and that share will be passed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia in just over 30 minutes. We want to develop the southern part of our country, we want to economically strengthen and encourage, so we want to build a fast track from Belgrade to Nis. There used to be a saying - the souther, the sadder. Today, all of us who come from the south of our country know that this is no longer the case. We want to connect the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, to network, and not only within the borders of our country, but also to connect with the region and thus use the good geo-strategic position that the Republic of Serbia actually has. In this way, we want to achieve this, above all, economic dimension, in the sense that we encourage economic growth, encourage the inflow of investment, create new jobs, but on the other hand we want to offer hope to young people that they can stay in Serbia and that they base their families on their centuries-old hearths. I've already talked about it several times in the tide, and I will always say, because I advocate that young people who went abroad go back to the Republic of Serbia, find their prey, find employment, and get all the knowledge and experience they've gained all over the world, apply in our country, because we need strong, strong, young and healthy Serbia. All of these results that I've listed can be proud of all of us together, because we have managed to achieve them together by changing habits, changing ways of thinking, going through a difficult period so that today we can measure successes, and not those individual successes that are measured by zeros in whatever accounts, not, but by successes measured by miles of highways, by the number of newly opened factories and steps that divide us from a better, brighter future for our children. What I would ultimately like to say is that we should stop complaining about our country for all our failures and hardships, but that we should go from ourselves and do our part well, because we are all parts of the same puzzle where we are all fighting together for a better life, for a better and better Serbia, a better, a brighter and more advanced future for our children. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5043	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5044	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, through a discussion that's been going on for a very long time, we've heard a lot about the importance of traffic infrastructure, of our relations in the region. I must agree with fellow MPs, that one such agreement is of great importance, and it is not the only project in terms of the infrastructure Serbia has with BiH. Of course, some in Serbia have wondered why we do it. There are several reasons. There's those political ones, of course, there's those demographic ones, there's those purely economic ones. We are politically sending a message that Serbia is seeking peace. Demographically on the migration of economics. With regard to the development of the region in economic terms and Serbia as countries in economic terms, because if someone thinks that Serbia will have a longer time period to have this growth in economic development and that economies in the region are stagnating or recording losses in great error. We simply share the same economic space, we are directed at each other, our economies are compatible. Of course, because of this, we have a major economic exchange that gives us the right to invest in infrastructure, or even through agreements with other countries. The demographic one is because there is a large number of citizens living in BiH's territory who are members of the Serb people. The aim of the Republic of Serbia is not to leave their hearths because of the economic impotence of the country in which they live and move around Europe, either in the diaspora or in the queen of Serbia, the aim of the Republic of Serbia is to remain in that area and to be economically developed and there is no motive for them to come to Serbia. Of course one of these agreements goes in favor of that. However, Mr. Minister, as much as you step up to explain how important this is for the Republic of Serbia, as much as we all work together to build Serbia in every sense, no matter how much effort we make to reduce the number of unemployed in Serbia by 320,000 jobs, new jobs, or increase the number of employees compared to 2011, no matter what the Republic of Serbia has given over 2.5 million doses of vaccines, regardless of what is now over 21% inoculated, no matter how much aid we have given to the economy at the beginning of the pandemic when it was an emergency, which our economy was meant to survive, whatever you have done to Mr. Minister, you, me, will be charged with not doing so for the people, that you are not doing it for the citizens, that you are not doing it for Serbia, but to do it to stay in power. Here, a few days ago, that thesis prevails through the media controlled by Dragan Gilas. You will always be contacted by a pensioner who will ask for his pension back, which was reduced in 2014 and 2015, respectively. Mr. Minister, you weren't in politics at the time, the fiscal consolidation measures started at the end of 2014, it was November. It is true that at that time, because of the very poor state of affairs that the state had in public finances, it was necessary to buy time to start a recovery of the Serbian economy and to have a better economic situation through that recovery than at that time. Unfortunately, then pensions had to be reduced, part of pensions, not all pensioners and government employees. Do you know, Minister, how much pension savings were on the period 2015/2016, 2017, when we started easing measures. About 700m euros were saved on pensions. Do you know how much Gilas made from 2008 to 2012? Same 700m euros. Part of the 700m euros is on Mauricias, according to various exotic destinations, so I would ask that our fellow citizen who wants to pay him back a reduced pension, called on Dragan Gilas to sue, that he lacked that part of the money he wanted to share with the state in solidarity to give it to Dragan Gilas, because if he hadn't stolen those 700m euros, his pensions would not have been reduced. But imagine that perception, Mr. Minister, if it were better to make a stealth highway, so that you wouldn't be attacked, that you were courting the citizens and being a minister again, though, those who were making stealth highways, and we're witnessing that it was until 2012, so our entire highway from Presevo to Vranj disappeared, right? He's gone, he's paid. Everyone hides money by exotic destinations and Mauritius. Then I guess Gilas would love you. They say we're the 100 euros, so-called. a helicopter of money, giving to citizens to win the elections that took place in 2020. This money was also needed by the citizens because of the state of emergency, the pandemic and because of the psychological situation, and that through this money our real service sector and tourism is maintained on a certain level. It has nothing to do with the election, but it's nice to make a comparison. If we were as they represent us, Mr. Minister, would we in 2016 call an extraordinary parliamentary election? At that time we had a comfortable majority here in the National Assembly, 156 MPs had a list led by Alexander Vukic. Because only at that moment were the fiscal consolidation measures the most severe, the most severe were reduced both in the public sector and in pensions and we went to the elections. Now we're coming up with another absurd, which, in my opinion, is a morbid thing. We mentioned roads so far, some money, bridges, railways, airports, but to accuse the president of providing vaccines, not to protect public health and the lives of Serbian citizens, but to win the presidential elections. Watch this madness. In 2009 and 2010, we didn't have a single vaccine against swine flu. People in Serbia were dying. And I guess that's why they didn't get it, so they could steal more. They're still saying -- he didn't buy those vaccines, that's what we citizens bought. Well, who said he bought Alexander Wolfie? She bought Serbia, the revenues it has from the budget, which fills our economy, our citizens. One of these 100 euros returned to the state through taxes, employee contributions, etc., etc. But by their perception, you'd better steal. It's their perception. That's how they look at the state. Why are they attacking so many Alexander Wolfs? Well, to come to power. Why does he want power? Well, because Serbia is again more financially and economically powerful than when they left power and again wants 700m euros in four years. They want to recharge their accounts by foreign exchange destinations and by Mauritius. And the people, they'll beat them. As Mirko Cvetkovic said -- statistically, Serbia has come out of crisis only that is not what citizens feel yet. Now they're making some reverse statistics -- that Serbia didn't come out of the crisis, but that citizens feel wrong about living much easier than they did during their regime. And statistics will once again say that these lines being made, these bridges being restored and made, have no economic meaning, because why should we solve the problem of our citizens of the Republic of Serbia by having them get a chance to stay in Serbia because of all these projects. They aim to leave Serbia and go to the EU, not to be in Serbia in the EU. Dragan Gilasu's goal is for Sollaku and everyone else to leave Serbia, because their EU promise of 12 years was that we had terrible migrations between 2003-2004 and 2014, which were caused by exactly what our economy and economy were like, what our infrastructure was, how our people and citizens lived. It is their vision of the Republic of Serbia, as they realized they had no capacity to take Serbia to the EU. They've decided to banish the citizens there, even the ones they can't go to. And by the way, which will be rich, well, I guess it's a reward. Our citizens need to make peace. They did them a favor, drove them away from where they were born, where they went to school, where the families were planning to come true. It is the prize on which Dragan Djilas, Šolak, Miskovic and the whole bulument are entitled, that wealth. They opened our eyes that there was no future in Serbia. That's why the most Alexander Wolf bothers you. That's why every result and success Serbia has is for us to stay in power. And they'd like to come and steal again. Well, they'll never come to power again! Perhaps another, one day, is natural to lose elections in a normal democratic society such as Serbia, but this bulument, these thieves who have sickened Serbia, who have made "stelt" roads, which have shut down our factories, which have ruined our families... Mr. Minister, I've had over 50 years, 14 years stolen from me by Dragan Gilas and his regime, 14 years of life he stole from every man who was alive back then in Serbia. These younger ones have the opportunity to feel much more about the quality of these reforms that we are now conducting. But that thief, to sow money around the world, took not only me, but another seven or eight million citizens of Serbia, the years of life and a part of the future. That's why they will never rule Serbia again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5045	Thank you. The word is Olja Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5046	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have before us a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The reasons for confirming this agreement are the need for maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges. The Agreement contains 11, after which the basics of co-operation will be regulated, as well as the division of competences between countries. Contracting parties have divided the maintenance and reconstruction of six bridges by the Republic of Serbia, while BiH will perform on the other five, and other legal entities defined by laws and other regulations in the Contracting Parties' countries. For the purposes of implementing this Agreement, the competent authorities and other legal entities will also provide and make available to the other Contracting Party appropriate documentation concerning the bridge in question and the competent ministry of the State of one Contracting Party shall inform the competent ministry of the other Contracting Party of the planned actions, the temporary mode of traffic and the duration of the reconstruction of bridges. A joint operational team will prepare within six months of the date of signing the agreement a plan and a bridge reconstruction programme containing a report on the state of bridges, with recommendations for the needs of the type of work, an assessment of financial resources and a dynamic plan. The implementation of this agreement provided funding to the Republic of Serbia Budget Law for 2021, which singled out as many as 330 billion dinars for capital investments. Today more is being built in Serbia than it has been built decades behind us. Nothing's far from here anymore. Everything that's been done in the area of infrastructure, new roads, railways, airports, is a great pride for all of us. The "Serbia 2020-2025" programme in 2021 provides for huge investment in capital investments, which will significantly increase GDP growth in Serbia, and we are already the first at the rate of GDP growth in Europe, and this is an indicator that we are a stable state, that we have reacted in time, well and responsibly even during the crisis that has hit the whole world. Serbia continues to build, and more important infrastructure projects are expected in this year, and certainly among them are new highways and fast roads, whose construction starts in 2021, so we should have as many as eight highways built by December 1st. Work is expected to begin on the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor, but also on the construction of the highway and fast traffic to Požarec, then on to Velika Gradišta, and on to Donji Milanovac. Currently working on the Cačak - Požega highway, construction of the sea corridor to Cačak via Kruševac to Pojat and the Kuzmin - Sremska Rača highway. The works are in progress and on the highway Ruma - Šabac - Loznica. Also planned are the works on two other important highways, which are Zrenjanin - Belgrade, the forest corridor "Vozd Karadjordje", and are expected to build a section of the highway from Požega to Bolar towards Montenegro, which will speed up the journey to the Adriatic Sea. The envisaged agreement, which is ahead of us today on the agenda, will contribute to further development and improvement of regional infrastructure, as well as deepening bilateral relations between the two countries. We are already witnessing that relations between the Republic of Serbia and BiH and both at a high, friendly level, as seen in this crisis. Serbia has, by its actions, supported by its support for BiH and the whole region, set new standards of friendship, solidarity and awareness of the common interest in Serbia, regardless of the nation, religion or membership of a particular social group. Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, has seen the battle with the Coronavirus from the outset as a struggle for people's lives, not as a political struggle. In early March, the first dose of the vaccine in BiH arrived from Serbia. To BiH presidency members, Aleksandar Vukic himself delivered vaccines to help Serbia in times of crisis. Also, aside from employees in the BiH Constitutional Court, who have been vaccinated in Serbia, in previous days, all interested citizens could come and vaccinate in our country, although they are foreign citizens. It is Serbia's solidarity that will remain remembered in history. In the previous period, Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian member of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Milorad Dodik, also presented medical equipment, namely 30 clinical and five transport respirators and 10,000 N-95 masks, as a gift from Serbia to Republika Srpska. Serbia has shown that it is ready at all times to help its friends who need help, because only together can we defeat this pandemic. Serbia has managed to provide a total of 3.5 million doses of vaccine with its wise treatment and friendly relationship with our president, while 2.5 million doses of vaccines have been delivered from China to Serbia alone. Today, the Chinese vaccine was vaccinated and President Aleksandar Vukic himself in the Mine Head. We are encouraged by the fact that we have 26% of the total adult population vaccinated with one dose and 20% with two doses, while between 65 and 74 people were vaccinated with over 51% of the population, so the number of infected started to fall in the last hours as well as the number of people on the respirator. In addition to providing vaccines for our citizens, President Aleksandar Vukic has definitely confirmed himself as the leader of the region, including the whole of Europe by deciding to administer vaccines against the crown of the virus to the citizens of the region, and we do not say that, but it is written by the Croatian media. At a time when vaccinations all over the world are seen as the only way out of the Pademia, Serbia is among the best in Europe and in the world with regard to the immunisation of the population. In addition, Serbia has remained economically strong through responsible work, effort and wise measures and continues to invest in our country. At the very end, I want to give you full support and wish you success in further work on the realization of all ambitious but realistic set goals in the coming period. Evil languages remain to be criticized, because that's all they know. People see the results and the prices of work and effort and yours and our president and just keep working as you have so far and this way I'm using the opportunity to publicly invite you to visit the Pyrot City where I come from. In the day to vote together with the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5047	Thank you. The word is Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5048	Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, taking into account that there are less than five minutes left for the discussion, I will try to make the most of my speech, but I would like to refer to the discussion of fellow Members of Parliament who had discussed before me and I think that you, Minister, have been able to see how constructive this discussion today was and how much all MPs today put their full hope and faith in you in the Ministry that you are leading, but above all in the Government of Serbia and in the politics of President Alexander Vukic. You must understand that for the simple reason that MPs come from various parts of our country and by 2012 most of these parts were absolutely abandoned. Their infrastructure was neglected and it is no wonder that in the 21st century for some Serbian citizens, the daily life was that they had no asphalt. Unfortunately, such a situation was left to us by the Democratic Party and then the regime of Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic. All of what we heard today is in support of Serbia becoming, not only a leader in the region for a very short time, but has become one of the fastest growing economies in Europe and has clearly positioned itself as a country worth investing in, a country offering perspective and a future for children and generations to come and has become a country that no longer kneels and bends before anyone, but is always there for a given hand and for a reconciliation hand with everyone. Today we heard many things concerning relations between Serbia and Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also Serbia's relationship with other countries in the region. Unfortunately, I don't think any of the fellow MPs mentioned it, in 2015 in July, President Aleksandar Vukic was attacked in Srebrenica when another gesture, a human gesture, tried to show that Serbia was always ready for reconciliation, for dialogue. However, there he came across a naked struggle for life, but unfortunately to this day no one was responsible for it. No one in Serbia has misrepresented it, nor has President Aleksandar Vucic taken it to someone for evil, but for several weeks, perhaps a month later we had a return visit to BiH's representative Belgrade. When we talk about donations, I think a lot has been said and Serbia will continue to build both schools and kindergartens and invest in infrastructure in Republika Srpska, and we can do this today because our economy is strong and stable, and all thanks to the responsible policy we are following, which is being followed by President Aleksandar Vukic. As far as bridges are concerned, bridges aren't just something we see physically, they're not miles away, they're not tons of invested material. Bridges are, first of all, relationships between people and bridges we build on this side and everyone else on the other side. As long as there is room for dialogue and reconciliation, Serbia will always be the one to give a hand of reconciliation. However, there is still a minute and a half left, so I will soon finish, when you mention the bridge in Belgrade and Serbia, there is no way that the bridge reminds us of the Dragan Gilas bridge that has been overpaid several times, which has been paid twice as much than the bridge in France, which is twice as long again. What remains as a pain is the fact that when we asked why they treated Belgrade's budget in this way, according to Serbia's budget, we haven't received an answer, and today, we see in recent weeks, in recent months, whether it has been a couple of times, whether some three times overpaid show accounts in Mauritius, Hong Kong, Switzerland, where the budget of the city of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia, via Dragan Gilas and his companies, has been poored. I didn't accidentally use that term twice. If someone followed closely the meetings of the City Assembly, it is a term most often used by Dragan Gilas as mayor, because everything he did, he worked twice, so one part remains in charge, and the other part ends with him. If we had never been doubled, he said, it would not have happened again, so Serbia's citizens clearly sent him into political history and political history. For you, dear Minister, I want a lot of success, I want a lot of progress, and I want us to have as many agreements as possible in the coming period, because that way we will work in the interest of not only our countries, but in the interest of the entire region, because first of all, it is the interest of our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5049	Thank you. There are no more entries on the lists for the word. There are no authorised representatives registered in the system. The word in Article 96 has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5050	Dear Chairman, thank you, I'll be really brief. Thank you Aco very much, Olya thank you. With great pleasure, I will come to Pirot. We have a lot of issues to open up. Unfortunately, or fortunately, there are so many projects that refer to these strategic corridors that it's just hard to run your business time, let's just say, as efficiently as possible, because the day is very short again. In order for all of this to happen, we unfortunately have to make up for decades lost, especially at that time after 2000, when in reality it was supposed to be the most done, because the opportunities were such that all of these things were really either realized or they could enter into some final phase of realization. We're where we are, what do we do, we have to do this now. We didn't choose the time, we didn't choose the circumstances. Circumstances and the earth put us ahead of this challenge and it's only up to us whether or not we're going to meet it. There were really many speeches here, very high-quality from senior colleagues, colleagues Arsic who really had, he's an experienced politician who really knows how to expose his thoughts very clearly to younger colleagues. I really need to express one satisfaction and pride that I have the opportunity to speak here, because if we imagine now, is there anywhere in the region you can hear this level of discussion? Today we're talking about the look of a relative, simple subject, let's conditionally put it that way, I'm talking about 11 bridges on three rivers and the way they're going to be maintained. But we are actually talking about the future of our country, our region, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the future of "mini Schengen", whether we see ourselves living together and making progress together and all here or most of us, we speak without passion, anger, even though we are all aware that 500,000 members of the Serbian people in the past 20 years have escaped from their homes and found their new home here after a hundred years of life, whether in Bosnia and Herzegovina or wherever. I didn't feel the anger here, I felt the perspective, the arm, the love. All the results we achieve today, it doesn't matter if they're infrastructure projects, roads, railways, water traffic, vaccines, we tell our regional friends -- be a part of this, we provide a hand, we can't separate ourselves from you, it's unnatural that we have administrative barriers at the crossing between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. That can't work. That's not normal. That's what no one wants. I would like to conclude that level of conversation, that level of vision, that volume of young people who are willing to sacrifice themselves for their country, sitting in this assembly, that's what scares many, that's what many see the problem, Alexander Vukic, under one, is the one in which they see the problem, because he makes our system far better than all the countries in the region, as much as they are formally in some integrational processes ahead of us. In reality, either we drag the region or everyone stagnates. Thank you very much and once again I invite you to support this law, it is in the interest of our country, our citizens, but also our partners in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-06-0.u5051	Thank you, Mr. Minister, and thank you to everyone who participated in the debate and I am concluding a unique search. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
