ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11928	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 16th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. We move on to a search in detail on the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Financial Support for Family with Children. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Radomir Ratko Dmitrić, Minister of Family and Demography Mirjana Radanovic, acting as Secretary of the Ministry of Family and Demography, Aleksandra Camagic, Deputy Minister for Family and Demography and Milena Antić Janic, Head of the Group for Population Policy and Financial Support of the Family with Children in the Ministry of Family and Demography. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic, as well as the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty on tabled amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction. The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction has adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The People's Parliament of Jasmine Karanac came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11929	Thank you, Vice President Yevdzic. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children for us Social Democrats Rasim Ljajic is of great importance because social issues, i.e. social protection, are rooted in the name of our party and are the basis on which all the values of the heritage of the SDPS rest. Serbia has a law governing the area, and there are amendments to the National Assembly that increase the parental supplement from 100 to 300,000 dinars. With these changes, as we heard yesterday in the explanation, they refer to the first child born after 31 December 2021. Three hundred thousand dinars for the first child is not a small amount and is certainly welcome to improve the conditions for the newborn, as well as to meet the basic needs during the earliest period of the baby, because the total amount will be paid once. By changing this part of the law, where 200,000 dinars increase the amount for the first child, the state provides support, above all, to families with weaker material conditions, families with children with developmental disorders, but also to children without parental ageing. This is also a significant measure of population policy that will become an integral part of the law and the idea is to serve as an incentive for the birth of children. If she's going to give positive results, no one can guarantee it. So far experience has shown that the measures to raise the birth rate in one country have failed in another, but that should not discourage us, and we should continue to encourage Natalie. Serbia has continued to have a negative natural growth, and this is not only our country's problem, but the whole of Europe faces these demographic problems. The birth rate is low everywhere. If we take into account the pandemic, where the mortality rate is increased, then the economic crisis, then we get unfavourable results and we get problems. The warning is that this year we end up with 70,000 fewer people compared to the previous one based solely on natural growth without talking about immigration. It's the number of people in a larger city in Serbia. That is why it is clear that resolving demographics is high on the list of priorities and it must be the national issue of number one in Serbia. Without rejuvenating the population, there is no strong economy, because it is up to young people to adopt new knowledge, to accept new technologies and new challenges for the future, and it is in the country to lead a well-designed population policy, to make legal solutions that contribute to the achievement of the rights of young people to create a family, while respecting the right of each individual to freely decide whether and how many children they will have. What is identified as the biggest problem of young people when it comes to family creation is business and housing, because you will agree, it is hard to expect in the 21st century that someone will decide on marriage and children if his parents support him and if two or three generations live in the same apartment. Aware of this problem, the state, by adopting the measures of population policy provided for in these amendments and amendments to the law, provided for the right to money for the construction or purchase of an apartment, i.e. a housing unit based on the birth of a child. The right to these funds is acquired by mothers for a child born on 1 January 2022 and later, provided that it is their first apartment owned. This is a good incentive measure especially if it is given the right to have mothers for a child after 1 January 2022, regardless of whether they are first or have older children who are not deprived of parental rights, or children they care about. What mothers need to know is that they apply for this right, or financial assistance, to be administered through units of local self-government within a year of the birth of a child. It is also important to note that the housing unit was built or purchased from these incentives is not the subject of joint assets, but is a special property of the mother and is not the subject of division. All of this takes into account the conclusion that these legal changes are part of the overall child care, that they give a special incentive to birth, as well as materially endangered families and children without parental ageing, and show us a clear commitment from the state to constantly promote social protection. Also, this law is an important segment of Serbia's overall population policy, because demographics are a question of survival and one of the most important political issues and, if the population policy is well designed and if we are determined to implement it, it is, I cannot say, one real basis for raising birth and survival. None of this will be, and we can't expect visible results if we don't motivate young people and create conditions for them to stay in Serbia, to form a family here and give birth to children. Young people want a job, they want stability, they want safety, they want a healthy environment. It is up to us to do everything we can, and Serbia is doing a lot in that direction. Certainly part of the population policy and creating ambience for remaining young people are the paths we build and factories and scientific and technological parks and schools, kindergartens, hospitals and investment in education, improving life in the countryside. All these are investments for the future that provide jobs and the basis for gaining additional value and a more comfortable life for citizens. I think the key to everything is mutual trust and support between young people and the state. The state should hear young people, listen to their needs, strengthen them, allow them to participate in law-making and decision-making, to enable their independence and to be a constant support. Young people should have confidence in the state, be informed, be interested in politics, in matters of public interest, in being committed to democratic values, to being politically active, to deliver their opinions and to participate in creating the country's future. Only such a relationship can be a premise for solving the challenges we are currently facing, but also for those who are waiting for us in the future. As for this, but also other draft laws on the agenda of this session, the SDPS will support all proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11930	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11931	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable ministers with the co-worker, the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, discussed this morning the amendment submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinović and the head of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – To our children. The amendment and supplementation of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children accepted the amendment, and the Committee unanimously accepted this amendment by Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic at its session. Why? Because Dr. Aleksandra Martinovic's amendment refers to improving the basic text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which is certainly a major and significant step in terms of the fact that the parental supplement is 300% increased by the first child and now stands at 300,000 dinars. Also, a historical step has been made in the basic Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children in the sense that the mother, based on the birth of a child, is now able to address the state and receive funds for the construction or purchase of a residential unit, house or apartment. That's never been the case before. What Alexander Vukic – For our children, his amendment, has improved this law and what the proposer and the Committee have accepted is that the amendment recognises that even after the birth of another child one-time cash aid of 100,000 dinars and that one-time cash aid in the same amount of 100,000 dinars can also be obtained on the basis of the birth of a third child. Of course this is a huge step, because this definition has never existed before in laws relating to the financial support of the family with children. In this way, it is clear that the state and how it takes care of its constitutional role, and the Constitution provides for the role of the state to contribute to the welfare of both families and parents and children. It's part of social policy, but part of demographic policy and population policy. We have been talking a lot about this since 2012 when the SNS took over the exercise of power and, of course, responsibility for the exercise of power, because all these years we have systematically worked to improve the legislative framework for improving the birth rate in the Republic of Serbia. What I particularly want to point out is that the vision and mission of Alexander Vukic's policy are to improve the birth rate in Serbia, to have more children in Serbia, to be more cradles in Serbia. The main initiator and initiator of things, these changes, changes and additions to this law, is President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic. How much his concern for this area also points to the fact that last year, when the government was formed, a special ministry was just formed, and that, Mr. Dimitrovic, is the ministry of which you are headed – the Ministry of Family and Demography. The fall of birth, the negative natural growth, is not something that occurred yesterday, not five years ago, not 10 years ago, not 20 years ago. This is a question concerning the Republic of Serbia since the 1950s, and has become alarming in the 1970s. But what's been going on since the '50s? Nothing. The first to raise the issue of population policy under the carpet, not only as a question, but as a problem that is of national and strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, the problem that needs to be addressed is just the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. In that sense, except that the parental allowance will remain the same as in the previous law for the second and third children in those monthly amounts, this amendment changes the fact that parents will additionally receive one-time cash aid for the second and third children born after the 1st of January 2022 in the amount of 100,000 dinars. There's something else I need to say. By 2012, none of these issues had been addressed, nor the question of birth, nor the question of children. Dragan Gilas and the yellow tycoon company robbed a complete nation. The biggest disaster that could in fact affect Serbia and its citizens is the government of a yellow tycoon company, as in 12 years, governments have robbed the state of Serbia and its citizens by 100 billion euros. Dragan Gilas robbed the city's budget of the city of Belgrade by a billion and 200m euros, and made himself rich by 619m euros. Of course, the children and children's needs were absolutely not taken into account, but were trying to steal them for personal gain at every possible step and through the illegal calculation of childcare fees in kindergarten and through the construction of the Big Brother's house, where it was in the Treaty to build an object of general social interest, and in fact it was an object for filling the private pockets of Dragan Gilas. Today the situation is completely different. In every city, in every municipality, there is no preschool or primary or secondary school in every village that is not reconstructed or completely new built. I'm from the Pryboy Community. In the municipality of Priboj is completely reconstructed, according to the world's most modern and European standards, OS "Desanka Maksimović", as well as the secondary Machine and Electrical School, the reconstructed second OS "Vuk Karadzic" in Priboj, as well as the reconstructed OS "Branko Radčević" in Priboj. I must point out again, because the western part of Serbia until 2012 was completely neglected, as of course the whole of Serbia by the yellow tycoon enterprise, cities and municipalities in the western part of Serbia were called "the valleys of hunger". I come from Priboj, Priboj is one of the municipalities that is exactly what was called “the valley of famine. ” I know my moms used to buy one egg for breakfast at the time, but you know how? On faith. During the time of Dragan Gilas, the average salary in the Municipality of Priboj was 20,000 dinars. Today, it is over 450 euros, with a tendency to continue growing, as one of the most modern industrial zones that employs a large number of workers has opened in Priboj, and in addition, within the industrial zone itself, has started working, i.e. the High Technical School that educates engineers, just to find a job and get a job in this city. Also, I would like to point out the example of President Aleksandar Vukic's visit to the municipalities of western Serbia. First of all, I would like to highlight a visit to Nova Varosha in which it was reconstructed and built a primary school in Nova Varosha. The value of that school is 500 million dinars. The school has a pool, has the best learning conditions and best conditions for the work of educational workers. And not only that, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic was visiting Sjenica, a municipality that the yellow tycoon company bypassed in a broad port, as they were most likely aware that it was very cold in Sjenica. It was not difficult for the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, to go to Sjenica and talk to the Shadow Mountains about all those problems that plague them. But when it comes to children, I must point out that a 10m-euro school is to be built in Sjenica, which is said to be the 22nd century school. All of what we are doing, that is, everything that the government and our President Aleksandar Vukic are doing, is doing to make the citizens of Serbia feel better. Serbia in the first place, and I will end up with the words of President Aleksandar Vukic: "All children of Serbia live."
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11932	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11933	I thank you, Doctor Orlic. Dear Ministers with Associates, dear colleagues, here's the nice thing we're going to do today, which we're talking about, that's helping our newborn babies since the New Year, from January 1, 2022. In the coming period, I'm sure they'll have the opportunity, our children, to have every penny that comes to them. It's something that means a lot. I wanted to talk yesterday, but here's the day I'd like to take advantage of this time that Mr. Orlic lets me do, because I have to honor my colleagues. Dear Minister, you indicated more beautiful things yesterday than the 300,000 for every newborn child since 1 January 2022, that there will be something else now. Here, another big thing, it's 100,000 dinars for each second and third child born in the year 2022 of January 1st and plus those funds that are given every month for the following years. I mean, these are really positive things that haven't been up until now. As a man, in the previous period, until 2014, I was the president of the municipality in Svrlig, where I had this obligation as well, and we looked at it as a local self-government to stimulate birth in some way. We provided assistance through the program brought by the Assembly back in 2011. We then allocated funds for every newborn child, unemployed maternity, for the marriage community, and we had the opportunity, we separated, we gave 50% more for those children born in rural areas, for that marriage community, for the unemployed families living in rural areas, for them there was 50% greater isolation. The goal of it is to put an accent on our rural areas, so I've spoken here many times, but this is a really big deal for all of us, for every citizen of ours, for every newborn child born in 2022, it's a really big deal, this kind of money, to help that family, that young couple, that child, it's a really big thing. I am sure that since 2022, in the new term that will be after the elections, I am sure that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will recognise all that is done, what is being built, what is being made, what is being singled out, what is being helped. Every man, every woman, every child, does he live in Srlig, the White Palanca, Gadjin Han, does he live in Sjenica, Tutin, if he lives in Belgrade, Novi Sad, that's a big thing, that good thing, and I'm sure the citizens of Serbia will recognize it. Every mile of what we do, every facility, whether it's a school, whether it's a home of health, whether it's a new clinical center, that's all the things that are visible. For all of us here in the Assembly, we speak the language to be heard, to know, and the concrete things that the president of Serbia does, it is really visible in every place, at all times. We were back a few days, the president of Serbia was with us in the territory of the county of Slovenia, he was supposed to come to us in Srlig, but within our obligations we agreed that it would be during the first third of the following year, in 2022. I'm sure what's done to the people will recognize it, they will know. What we're saying here is that people need to know, and we can always remember the 2000 period, 2002, 2003, 2004, when companies that had a large number of workers were destroyed, when they were corrupt in the worst way. Because of 100 grams of coffee, someone destroys a company worth, say, two million euros or something. That's all I'm saying figuratively, but that's all the results of something that was wrong. Once again, here we are today, talking about these amendments that are truly recognizable, good, which will give us the opportunity to stimulate birth, to stimulate family, to stimulate marriage. We know that from marriage, male and female, a child can be born. Always, you've said about it that family should be in the first place, in the first place, and I think so. By the way, I'm married, I have, I've given God, I've given my daughter and my son, I expect to be a grandfather next year, it's all nice stuff, it's a good thing, and at all times we support that family is the basic cell of our society. That cell, that family, we have to look after it, care about it. We don't mind if someone says something from these European countries, we don't mind it, we're good at all those things, we can take from them what are good things, but what are bad things, we put the family somewhere else, and put something in the first place that doesn't produce results. We all know what the organism means. We all know how the organism works, cells, families, that's the basic thing in our society and our country. I'm sure in the following year we'll have the opportunity to get some things right, to fix, to provide funds, to allocate more funds for families living in rural areas, to families living in the municipalities most demographically threatened, to families where those families living in the city, and to want to move to the village and tomorrow create, to have children and those people there, to find the possibility to have bigger incomes, because believe me, people, life in my Srlig, life in some village, in a village near Srriglig or Gajino Han, White Palanka, when there's someone there to create a family, when there's a child, that family has to be born, except for this help we now, what we're carrying this law, it's great, but normally we can upgrade it when the time comes next year, to build these people up to provide additional resources, because they don't have to live in the city. That is why I think it is necessary and I will normally support this bill with all my heart, and that is the best thing, because without family, without children, there is no life in our Serbia. Dear fellow Ministers, once again I wish you successful work in the coming years as Minister. My fellow Serbian citizens, here I am, for the last time, I would support the proposals of this law and these laws because these laws are also good for our Serbia, and I would once again as a MP, as president of the USS, wish all Serbian citizens a happy New Year, Christmas holidays, with the desire that this new 2022 year be born and noble both in the field and in the house. All the best and lives of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11934	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11935	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Ministers with Co-operation, Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen National MPs, honourable citizens, therefore, of course, I will fully support these amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Financial Support and Families with Children and, of course, the Law, but I will put it in a broader context, of course, I will say, what President Vukic promised about demographic measures was implemented, the Minister also spoke of it with extraordinary and commending the work of Mr. Minister despite some difficulties he had and his ministry from those basic difficulties which they had and even with the rooms, because the Ministry of Demography will do so if he has problems with the premises. Fortunately, these problems have been solved and we've received populational measures, but of course no government can solve the populational and demographic problems that last, watch out, literally for hundreds of years, where we've come to what we've come to. Of course, we've had some really objective difficulties. Two world wars, where nearly 60% of the male population died in the first place, something different, but it was also terrible in World War II, we had, not to go back so much to the past -- 500 years under the Turks, it cost us a fierce demographic cost, and the bombing under NATO, and now we have the top 10 years of power in the last 100 years, which is taking serious demographic measures, and that applies to these amendments. You heard colleague Jevtović Vukojičić say what is predicted, and I will put this in a broader context. In order for the majority of Serbia, of course and the minority, I also advocate for their rights, to be able to give birth to these children who will receive and to achieve these families that will produce these children that we need and to get this financial assistance, it is necessary to protect the human rights of the majority, of course and minorities, but most of them also need to ensure equality and majority, of course and minorities, but I repeat - both the majority and the need to prohibit discrimination of the natural minority, but it is also necessary to prohibit discrimination and the majority. I'll just remind you that we haven't voted on the reports we discussed yet, so I'll say something about it, the Protector, the Trustee and the Trustee. Of course I will vote, I said, for these amendments and for this law and I will vote, of course, for those reports, but in this context of this law I will point out certain work-related problems and of course what I have spoken about most of the population in Serbia, which concerns the work of the Protector, the Trustee and the Trustee, but of course I will vote for their reports because much of their work and activity is simply positive. My criticism will only apply to a small part of their work and you will hear it. At the very meeting of the committee responsible for human rights, I made certain remarks. For example, it concerns the human rights of heroine Dragica Gasic, which is the only Serbian woman living in Djakovica. I proposed to the Commissioner and Protector to help Mrs. Gasic. Perhaps someone else will wish to return to Djakovica, just some family who will have the right to this law, so in order to ensure that we also have to provide rights to the only Serbian woman who lives there for now, and that is Dragica Gasic, because so far neither the Trustee nor the Trustee, excuse me, nor the Citizens Protector have done anything to help Dragica Gasic. It's one of the largest Serbian heroines, especially among those women who are alive. She is grateful to God alive and well and lives in Djakovica, a lonely woman, the only Serbian woman without anyone else, lives in Djakovica. As the KIM Office helps Ms. Dragici Gasic, so can the Commissioner and the Protector and the public, and it would very well echo the news that the Trustee and Protector met with Mrs. Dragica Gasic either at KIM or outside and said they would help her in any way, especially with the advice they can give her, concerning her human rights. If we don't, there won't be a return to Kim and these families who have the right to exercise their rights under this law. So I'm going to point out certain phenomena and problems that are not in the reports, which are simply about the rights, and you're going to hear that, let's say the president of the Republic. The question is, does the Protector and the Trustee, for example, feel the human need to respond to years of systematic discrimination, dehumanisation and not imposing the inequality of the family of the President of the Republic? I will point out the case of discrimination against the son of the President of the Republic who is 23, 24 years old and is just in the years when he can start a family that may exercise rights according to this law, and how will he exercise that right and how will he start the Danilo Vukic family when he has been systematically discriminated for years, he has been imposed on an inequality and has been declared a criminal, associate of some criminal clans and has been invented thousands of lies about him? Of course, one of those lies is of course you're rich. How can he normally start a family when he's exposed to this? He is not a politician, he is not a official, he is exposed to terrible media discrimination and it is about discrimination on the basis of one family's belongings, or discrimination on the basis of political convictions, and he is at risk of life with all that Gilasovski media has done to him for at least three years and probably more. It's a new kind of discrimination against one family and against not only that but also members and supporters of the SNS and that's the majority in Serbia, it's part of the majority in Serbia that I was talking about because only SNS members have 750 thousand, so multiply it by the number of family members, that's three in total, so you'll get to two million, and you'll include even sympathisers and you'll see that it really represents the majority in Serbia, and that proves, of course, the election back 10 years. Since 2018, nearly all members of the family of the President of the Republic have been discriminated and blacked out. Otherwise, the report positively mentions that she condemned the insults of Darija Kisic and Milice Vukic and the Milica Vukic team are now of age, but I will remind her of the case when she was underage, when she was a child, and she probably enjoys some real human as a child. I will remind you of the case from 1 August 2019, when the authorities, we all forgot it, arrested, careful, criminal, person with a fat criminal record, the name does not matter, but it is Saša Petersen Alias Predic. A 44-year-old person who followed and filmed and prepared for weeks at school to attack the then minor Milica Vukic, daughter of the president. Fortunately, he was arrested, and he was still sending e-mails to officials in certain state bodies, apparently a man had a certain diagnosis, where he announced that he would carry out the attack. This occasion was owned by all the addresses they live in, and it was sent in e-mails from members of the Vucic family, all the addresses. I looked from the otherwise detailed and chronological back and websites of the Protector and the Trustee, because they also concern this law and I stopped them from being very narrow and restrictively engaged in their work. They act essentially as the guardian of minorities, which they are in part, but not entirely, and act as the Trustee for the protection of the equality of minorities, and our Constitution predicts that these institutions protect all citizens, therefore, and the minority, on any basis, but also most, it is forgotten. So I ask a simple question, so who protects the endangered and neglected rights and freedoms of the president himself and members of his family, but also SNS officials and SNS supporters. Who protects the rights of most when threatened? I will list examples of double arches in the work of these institutions that and as far as this law is concerned, because if you cannot guarantee the rights of the majority, equality and ban on discrimination against the majority, then you will find it difficult to get the full effects of this Law on financial support and changes and additions of the Financial Support Act to families with children. So, the trustee, who positively condemned it in good time, has a report on breaking windows and drawing graphite on the facade of the Croatian home building in Novi Slankamen and condemned the same year, which was last year, two attempts to vandalise the window of the Pride info centre in Belgrade, which is otherwise not damaged, but was merely attempted vandalism. However, on the other hand, SNS premises across Serbia have been attacked more than 50 times today with massive material damage, and in one case SNS rooms have even been burned completely. So the motives are political, it's discrimination based on party membership, and I'm linking it to this. By the time Gilas returned to politics in 2018, there were only 10 cases of attacks on the SNS premises from 2012 to 2018, and since Gilas's return to politics in 2018, there have been these 50 attacks and I link it to that, so the number of attacks has increased. This is a frantic reminder of the information recently released, that since Kurti's rule in Kosovo that the number of attacks on Serbs, Serbian property and the Serbian Orthodox Church in KIM has increased 50% since Kurti took over. Is that something like that to you, and is it connected to you, especially when you see that Kurti and Gilas are each other, that they are brothers, to boast? Gilas was in his own time and as he praised Kurti, he said -- the gentleman who advocates human rights, as Gilas could co-operate with him, etc. It's not an accident. So, Commissioner, now I'm talking about the double arches, the Trustee and the Protector didn't once, not just these 50, but in all these 60 cases they reacted to condemn some attack on SNS premises at least once. I mean, the same arches have to be applied to both the Croatian home and the Pride info center and the SNS rooms. Of course we're not talking about multiple attacks and death threats to SNS officials. So again, we have come to the point of being threatened and the question of who is protecting the threatened rights of the majority. The police usually do their job. He often discovers attackers, say on our premises, when attacked, as I would say institutions such as the Croatian home or the Pride info center or similar cases, almost 100% of the perpetrators in the SNS case are discovered around 50% of the perpetrators. However, police are not in charge of equality and discrimination. I'm going to make two examples of violence that are just undermining this law that we're talking about today. Of the hundreds of examples of violence, therefore, the start of an election campaign, a month ago today marked the violence of Gilas officials in Zajecar who burned the car from the mayor of Nicic and his wife, and the police discovered the perpetrator very quickly and detained Nenad Nikola's 34-year-old, who fully confessed to committing the crime. It's enough to look at his Facebook account, it's about a militant and a very politically-determined person. He is the official of the Gilas party of the SAA and is son of Gilas' main officials in Zajecar. Another example that also took place a month ago was the case of Nikola Novakovic, the son of Deputy Prime Minister Jeremic's party, Borislav Novakovic. Nikola Novakovic is also a full-time person, 26, 27 years old and in a completely drunk state, destroyed 30m square windows of the SNS premises in Novi Sad. I'll also mention two recent threats to violence. She's one of them yesterday. Be careful, President of Liberation, Mladjan Djordjevic is a certain but also a rodent of a media i.e. Tabloida, some Petar Popovic, were obstructing dialogue on Twitter, so the most monstrous threat was to the vice presidents of our parliamentary club and the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Mrs. Sandri Christmas and in their threats, in the interview that was issued on Twitter, they mentioned both the bandits and the troikas. What does that associate you with? The threat is clear, the Black Three Quislings killed the Serbs during World War II and hung them from the terraces on the bandits. The other day he was a clerk, a second face, a D.S. official. For the second time this year, he threatened the chief of information services, again our party, Mrs. Vladanka Malovic, where he once again threatened to cut her head off. The threat is clear, and what does that associate us with? In concentration camps, the Nazis cut their victims' heads first to use their hair. If these threats were addressed to Marinika Tepic, the EU, the OEPS, the UN and all the regulatory supervisory bodies I mentioned today would react. Do Mrs. Christmas and Mrs. Malovic have less human rights than Mrs. Tepic? When we spoke briefly at the committee session, the response of the trustee was correct and well stated, however, unpleasant and I will tell you about KiM and human rights, as well as the implementation of this Law on the assistance of families with children, I was not surprised by the response of the Guardian when I asked him about the attacks of the SNS premises, literally Mr Pasalić said – I am not inclined to manage public opinion with notices, declarations and convictions. It's about our rooms. And I'll tell you, the job of the Protector and the Trustee is precisely to manage public opinion declarations, declarations and convictions in a positive way to prevent violence, dehumanisation, discrimination and inequality. That's exactly his job. So he made it clear to me at the board meeting that he would not condemn the attacks on our premises. As far as Dragica Gasic is concerned, the Citizens' Protector said the following – as far as Mrs Gasic is concerned, if I may allow myself the right to say that since we talked to her, I doubt she would have anything, near the quote. What was I supposed to understand? I could understand that Mr. Protector of citizens who are not Kurti's protector, but is a Serbian Civilian Protector and Protector of Serbian Citizens, will not help Dragica Gasic at all. I think there's something wrong, Dragica Gasic is a Serbian citizen. Now I'm also going to say something about the Office of the Trustee for the Accessibility of Information, which concerns the rehashing of the right of this young man I mentioned, who, for example, can and should start a family, Danilo Vukic, and here's an example of what they're doing to him. So, the scandal is not mentioned, of course, in the Report of Mr. Credentials on Access of Information this year, and the scandal began on November 10th of this year and the case completely reminds a little of that book by Franco Kafka "Process", which speaks of that Joseph K. So in this case, we have Danil V., who has been persecuted for years by the media of the Gilassov Party, and that no one is known at all, nor is there the nature of his sin. This process, a threat to his rights, on the day I mentioned it, was joined by officials working in a state independent body, i.e. officials of the Commissioner for Public Information, who went into physical control of the work of a winery site in which Danilo Vukic, on a miracle, works by accident, to check whether, on the site of the winery, the data of the customers is protected, as it is a respected company, import-export which also sells on the website what he sells. This winery usually belongs to one of the most respected companies in Serbia, an impeccable reputation, so this company's website does not belong to risk sites at all, and the trustee's service did not have any basis for putting this site into control, but they did, and it is extremely strange that they did. The Commissioner himself said it was not about any application, not about any suspicion, but about being a regular random control. I mean, the risk was nonexistent around this company, so they shouldn't have. However, what points to suspicion is the first fact that the control site, beware, is the computer and one handler of that site, has gone away as many as three people. So they didn't go there to carry the crates, but one person in five minutes controlled the site and within five minutes of talking to the site manager determined everything. They of course left, did it, and found that everything was fine, and they weren't supposed to go there, but there were three of them. Now, this is about a key argument, is that an accident? That's not an accident at all, and I'll tell you right now, it's the probability that it was accidentally done 1:1,000,000 that this winery was accidentally included in the trustee's surveillance plan. Why? First, in Serbia, you know, there are five million websites and they are all theoretically subject to the work of the Trustees. About two and a half million of these sites collect data, some information about citizens, and they may be a proposal to control the trustees, and let me tell you that from the 2019 report, I saw that the Trustee can carry out 500 control sites a year, because they have to physically, among other things, go there. So you compare 500 to 2.5 million, that's your first probability, i.e. It's an amazing 15,000. However, the Commissioner himself, while he was here, said that he had, that they had sent thousands of control lists to companies that sell via the website via the web of their products. Look out, there are at least 100,000 such sites and such companies in Serbia, and he sent 1,000 control sheets. So that's the next amazing 1,000 to 100,000. The third amazing thing is that this company just happens to have Danilo Vukic and that's where they go. The fourth amazing thing for you is that Mrs. Emina Kovacevic, who was a DS official, is now probably the SDS of Tadic and who was on Tadic's parliamentary list in 2016. The amazingness is even bigger because Emine Kovacevic's mother was also an DS official, Mrs. Rada Kovacevic, and she also works with the Commissioner, and she is the fourth person in the ranking, and that is all by chance. That brings you to the amazing of 1:1,000,000. And, therefore, what Mr. Trustee said here is simply a lie. It wasn't a random control, it was a deliberate one. I guess he didn't know it, but his mother and daughter, who are connected politically to one party, listed, or two, and they planned this winery, and then prepared the whole plan that was exposed by the journalists "Pinka" and "Informer" who went to the scene, and on the spot they were supposed to go to the Jilassian media, all of them were prepared and the whole spin and the whole lie, but they were narrowed down. Then we had a scene where the officers of the Commissioner for Access of Information run away so they wouldn't tell any available information to the press "Informer" and "Pinka" which is otherwise contrary to the job description of these officials who were running along the street from these people. So the whole plan fell into the water, and that was the whole plan, and nothing happened. That, if the Commissioner controls his service where there are a hundred employees, I will tell you only one detail, in March of this year, this Mrs. Radu Kovacevic, who has been working with him for 15 years in his service, promoted and appointed the fourth person of his service. It's not an accident either, you know. Normally, she was in a position to take out everything I described with her daughter. Otherwise, all the things I talked about and these two ladies and everyone else, how can I say, the yellow ones who work in supervisory bodies and bodies that were otherwise planted by the yellow ones by 2012, but let's remind ourselves that Shabić worked until 2018, and let's remind ourselves that Sasa Jankovic worked until 2017. So, by 2017, they hired a bunch of yellow former officials there. What does that prove? All those people are still working there. This proves that the SNS is not firing anyone, nor is it consecrating itself to the unthinkers, and that's great. Otherwise, the SNS employs Serbian citizens, and the yellow regime, to remind you, has fired more than 300,000 citizens from 2008 to 2012, and that is a big difference. I'll ask, I'm getting close to the end, some questions. Let's just say, has the trustee service ever controlled another wine shop over the past few years? Let me tell you right now that it's not. Has the Office of the Trustee for the Accessibility of Information ever controlled any of the numerous companies Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak and Goko Gilas? I'll also answer you, I checked, it's not. Has the trustee's service ever controlled the party of Dragan Gilas, this current party, which also collects data on citizens? I'll tell you right away, it's not. But I will remind Shabic and his service, that they controlled the work of the DS at the time of 2014 and submitted to Shabic, with caution, an incredible, breaking complaint against Dragan Dilas over the abuse of data by 157 thousand citizens. That's not what I made up. That's what the KRIK report says. Gilas was sentenced to criminal court in 2015 to pay the fine. So where's the risk and where's the trustee supposed to go? Well, in the current party of Dragan Gilas and current companies, Dragan Gilas, because they also collect, as various media companies, data on citizens. That's where the risk is to go. Is he going there? They never will. At the end, I'll compare it, because I've never heard it here before, and I'll remind you of two scandals from 2014 when the then citizens' protector, Sasa Jankovic and then the Trustee, Petrusic and then the Trustee of Sabic, did not react or react wrongly in both cases. So I'll remind you that otherwise all three were appointed by DS Tadic, Gilas or were members of DOS parties before their entry as Shabic. So, the first scandal took place on September 28, 2014, when 20 gendarmes were beaten by Andrej Vukic, Predrag Mali and two Kobras without cause, and instead of protecting the victims and convicted of assault and convictions of violence, Jankovic and Sabic attacked and condemned the victims, they condemned Andrej for attacking 20 Pendreks. They attacked without reason and then Prime Minister Vukic. Instead of condemning the attackers, they condemned the victims. Petrusic kept her mouth shut, which was what the trustee was then, supporting the violence. The media, that's what's important about this scandal, exploded. By attacking each other and defending them. However, the second scandal took place on the 6th. 12. In 2014, three months after this first one. That's when Gilas physically attacked his ex-wife, you know, you're in a relationship now for a few years, what happened when, and her parents, and otherwise, according to the testimony at the MuP, Vračar, all three, his ex-wife and her parents, 7. 12. Gilas's domestic violence has taken place before, and it is about family violence for an extended period of time. What I'm saying is that Gilas's children, this minor, are also included in a circle and in a family that might get financial support for families with children. And we protect their rights. Gilas, I remind you, was then an official, because he was the president of Serbia's basketball union. The prosecutor has never responded from 2014 until today, despite a statement by three victims in police, and this family violence, Gilasovo, was never convicted by the Protector, Sasa Jankovic, nor the Commissioner Petrusic, and the media, which is very strange, then, that week and that month, reported very minimally on this case of violence. I remind you that Jankovic and Shabic had responded completely wrongly to the violence against Andrej Vukić three months before -- condemned and attacked the victim of Andrej and his brother, Prime Minister. And why didn't they react and condemn Gilas's domestic violence at all? Because his friends, he and Tadic set them up, of course they won't attack him. This concludes, this is one commendation, the work and actions of the current Commissioner, the Protector and the Trustee are proof that they are indeed independent of both the executive and the ruling SNS today. The testimony of what I previously stated, the one thing, that they never condemned any of those 60 heavy attacks on the SNS premises. So we see that it's still evidence of this thing that I've brought out. To the end, to all citizens, to all the employees of the Assembly, to all of you, to the representatives who sit here, the chairman, to Mr. Minister with an associate and to all of you, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I want happy Christmas and New Year's holidays. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11936	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11937	Thank you, Chairman, Dr. Orlic. Dear Ministers with an associate, esteemed citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected MPs, will talk about an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children. The proposed amendment envisions as a new right a one-time aid for the birth of a second and third child. This new right would significantly contribute to the growth of the birth rate and to the successful population policy conducted by the Serbian government, headed by President Aleksandar Vukic. The right to one-time aid of 100,000 dinars is granted by a mother to a second and third child, born from 1 January 2022 in the Republic of Serbia. The basic postulate and the principle implemented by the SNS, headed by Alexander Vukic, is security and social security for all children and all its citizens. What kind of relationship the former regime, led by Dragan Gilas and his breakthroughs, had towards children and parents when he rode Belgrade and irrevocably robbed the resources for children and families, so that he would then sow that money in secret accounts from Mauritius through America to Hong Kong and experience dementia and begin to rebel on the subject of kindergartens, which he would double-charging, where the seats were not for more than 20,000 young people, but he braided skin with the back of his parents. The tycoon didn't care about the families he took millions from, as well as the pensioners. The only thing he cared about was the seconds he'd chewed millions on. How is it when we talk about this crucial subject that we don't feel disgust and anger? Because today, this same multi-completed octopus is trying desperately to get its hands on the city's registers, so that its insatiable urge to re-possess money, tragically stuck in the past, when they cheered and clothed. The only plan they have is to force them into power. That's why they want Alexander Vukic's shooting, his family, out loud. Hatred as a volcano grumbling from their megaphones, the marines, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, Šute Jovanovic and so green of anger, collected under the same mushroom madhouse, are calling for destruction and violence, aware that the threats and that bullet that constantly sends Alexander Vukic is not only a bullet to him, but most citizens of the Republic of Serbia. With their resolutions on rematchism, they threaten to arrest, kidnap, destroy and shut down those who don't think like them, and shoot all those who oppose them. Those ignorants who are used to living on another's coat of arms, led by a machine-heated brain, are loudly bluish that larger experts who know better than the European Commission, the World Bank and the IMF. Inability to say anything meaningful and to do, this bolument leads to a campaign on the street with violence, insults, threats that are constantly directed at President Alexander Vukic through endless media chases, aware that they have never done anything. Our actions speak more than a hundred words. Hundreds of factories, hundreds of kilometers of roads, hospitals, kindergartens, schools and the fact that today is a problem, not only in Belgrade, but in all of Serbia, as people say, parking, while in their time hundreds of thousands of fired workers had no idea of bicycles, perhaps just an option to borrow money for a one-way ticket, bowed heads and with tears in their eyes. The people will never forget and no more mothers will send their children away, but no more mobsters will rule our lives like they did back then. The people are full of their nonsense and senseless ideas where common sense has long said good night. That's what the people will tell them again on April 3rd in the election. The people see, the people know that, at the head of Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia is going unsustainably forward. There's no time to wait anymore. Avets of the past should stay in their basements and enjoy their insolence there. With Serbia working, fighting, competing with the world and finally winning, with Serbia choosing life and choosing the future of the power of the dark past have nothing in common and will never again. Long live Serbia! Happy holidays and New Year's Eve!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11938	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11939	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I believe this is the most important law that this Assembly can discuss today, not only now, but probably the next ten years, and its importance, if not enough good and expected results, will be exponentially growing in the coming years, because any other laws we adopt here and all we do is free of us, which is every year, as the Minister said, 70,000 of us will be less. As for the very Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, the law first came into force in June 2002. With certain amendments and additions, we came by 2017, when the new law was passed. Then there were further changes and additions to that law and we saw that the law did not give the expected result. If we look at the fertility rate that is actually a coefficient that shows the number of children born per woman in the fertile period of her life from 15 to 49 years and we know that the fertility rate of 2.1% is actually a simple renewal, and in 2000 we had a rate of 1.46%, and in the next 20 years from 1.4% to 1.5%, then we see that these changes and additions and the law itself did not give certain expected results. This kind of statistical data, along with a series of elements affecting them, is one of them the bastard that has hit us at the moment, tells us one more thing, which is that families and traditional values have long been hit. Many try to weaken and destroy a traditional family. Let us not share ourselves in our own self - destruction, supporting certain groups that directly or indirectly hit the family. Of course, when something does not produce the expected results, there must be some changes. That's why these changes and additions to the law itself, we raise the level of support for families with children. It's a good thing we're increasing 200 percent from 100,000, so 300,000, or three times we're increasing that amount, as we're discussing today amendments where both the second and third children will receive one-time aid of 100,000 dinars. The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support the law and amendments themselves in the day of voting, because in essence our parties are also fighting against the white plague and fighting for the birth and population policy. Are these measures or are they better to say what are the measures that give the best and the fastest results, which will also give constantness and stability? Nobody knows that, and if I did, I believe that we would all accept it. I even think that the natural policy of a nation is influenced by its characteristics and mentality, so the measures that may be in force in Sweden or Germany in Serbia do not apply, or vice versa. I can even conclude on my own that perhaps the measures in force in northern Serbia are not valid in the south, etc., or in the city and village. It's all something quite normal to me. That's why I've been here more than once in Parliament and said that with such measures, it has to be experimented. These experiments are not experiments of a month, two or six months or a year, but often go for a decade or more. Therefore, the state, as well as local self-government since the birth of the child, must support both the child and the parents, thus making every parent feel a sense of security that their children, although they may be weaker material and financial situations, will have good conditions both for life and for work and for learning. Local self-government must be more involved in solving these problems. If local self-government can't do it themselves, a lot of things have to go to state level in some form. I'd like to give some examples. For example, if we have kindergartens, kindergartens must have enough capacity to accommodate all children. Many local self-governments, since they do not have the necessary capacities, single out subsidies, subsidise many private kindergartens, but that is often insufficient. Many local self-governments also give free stay to children, especially for a third child. But it's all a waste if there's no capacity and you can't enroll your child in the kindergarten itself. As for free schooling, I mean a lot of things, but I think they're the most important, which they may have to go to the state level, if local self-government isn't able to do that, it's free transportation of all students from home to school, and vice versa, free internet and free textbooks. Some local self-governments add some other elements, such as free holidays for secondary and secondary school finals, as well as additional financial assistance to parents with children. I'm saying this precisely because of these amendments today, because if this kind of help the family doesn't feel when they have their first child and they know they're going to have trouble enrolling their child in kindergarten, then it's detimulatively affecting that family to go to the second and third children. With this amendment now proposed for both the second and third children, I think it's a huge step forward and we will also support this amendment and this law. In the end, I would also say, since it's about these experiments, and it's for every maybe local self-government, and we have to take advantage of the experiences of these local self-governments that have achieved certain results in this kind of work, which is that the natal policy has produced results. One of these, I was talking about it, it's exactly Jagodina, who's been dealing with such politics since 2004, and gives results, that every year we have at least one class of more students champions. That is why I call once again on you to, as will the Unique Serbia, we all support this law and these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11940	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11941	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, this is, I would say, a key topic for the survival of our country. The roads are there, we build them, hundreds of kilometers, currently in Serbia are working on ten highways, it's open, I can say, over 250 new factories, hundreds of thousands of new jobs have been opened, and the largest criminal groups, drug clans, the bank that robbed Serbia, have been discovered in the previous period, and we all know well who these people are, we have established some of the foundations for the survival and development of our country. First of all, we have in power today a responsible politician, a statesman and an honest man, who truly loves his country, who honestly works for the benefit of our country and every child living in it. And yes, children are what Serbia will not be without in the next century. If we allow personal interests, personal pleasures and all that is not children to be in front of them, then we can't count on our children that we have today and their powers to have a peaceful future, certainly not, not a certain future. Why aren't you calm? Well, on various sides, Serbia has repeatedly referred to threats like this and such, especially those that have territorial claims towards the Republic of Serbia, those who have done everything and are working to kidnap both Kosovo and Metohija, those who would continue to tear Serbia apart. We must not allow children born in the future to welcome some new black days. We know that where there are no people, the question is then how does that territory survive within that state. So, not only is it, say, today if we have an average of one and a half children, although it's kind of ugly to say -- 1.7, 1.5, 1.6, one or two children per family, what these kids are going to do tomorrow if there aren't many more children than projections say, what is the trend now, that it's going to be 10, 20 or 30 years from now. Who are we building all these highways for? Who's going to take those highways? Who's gonna drive those highways? Who will go to the monument to Stefan Nemanja and remember the creation of a Serbian medieval state? Who will tour our monasteries and the saints we speak of every day? Who's going to guard those saints? Who's going to rebuild the schools? Who's going to rebuild the homes of health, the clinical centres we're building today? Who are we going to leave these people to? Should we leave it to those who took Kosovo and Metohija, those who would take away other parts of our territory, or we want to have ancestors who would be proud to remember this time and say – our fathers, grandfathers, grandfathers have built it, we rebuild it today and build it all up, or we want some ancestor to say they were irresponsible then and spit on our picture and say they didn't care enough. They didn't invest enough in population policy, and that's why we're gone, and that's why we're disappearing. For decades back, no one was interested in popular politics. I remember a lecture at the state law school a professor was giving, it's like 2002. The year was, when that lecture was still educational, it wasn't far away, it was 18 years of minister, backwards, historically speaking it was a short period, when I listened to all these projections of how many we would be 2050, so 2080, well, 2100 years old. They said in 2050, we'd be minority, and we'd be minority sooner if we didn't take care of the children. Of course, we take care of children by building kindergartens, by helping parents, by investing in money to help families for the first, second, third, child, and not only this money given by the republic, but also by the City of Belgrade singles out significant funds for newborn children and so is most of the other local self-government. However, we must pay attention to politics as well. I would say that young people in Serbia have been polluted by politics in the past 20, or 30 years. There we had a serious brain drain, especially after 2000 until 2012. A serious brain drain. People expected a turn from the former one-party system, the communist system, well, it came in multi-party, so after 2000 they expected something more serious to change after the end of the wars, abolish sanctions, that a general rebirth and reconstruction of Serbia would take place. However, a total sunflower was on its way, someone was going to nail that last nail on Serbia's coffin to turn off the light and say goodbye, pick up all the money, and say – we're going somewhere to some exotic destinations, you who stayed wait for the final end. Serbia and Serbia's citizens, I would say, were fortunate to have a SNS in 2008, that in 2012, it came to power to start serious and radical changes in Serbia, we established public finances and started truly to restore our country. Of course, the question always, is it perhaps late today, whether we may not have missed some last trains for our country's demographic recovery, or perhaps we are now the last train we have caught to do something to preserve this country, and above all this people, because there is no country without people. If you have no people, neither have you, nor the land; for the people have created the earth, the land itself has not been created. Some people have built a country, some people have set up these borders that Serbia has, some people have built these houses, these hospitals, these schools, these monuments, we remember these people, we don't raise their monuments, we don't even know what it is we're going to do to build monuments from the street to the street, or we're putting up some tables where someone lived, and we're assigning some significant historical figures of street names. These are the people who have done so much for this country that we are here today. Which is why we exist today. Don't let me one day, and that's what I'm saying to the citizens and to the MPs here, let's just ask ourselves how many of us kids have. I have no right to tell anyone if I don't have any children, I'm 40 years old, give birth to your children. We can't even make anyone do it, but we have to talk about how nice it is to have kids. Well, each of us then remembers our ancestors who may have had five, ten children in much more difficult situations, world wars, Balkan wars. They didn't have modern cars at the time, or mobile phones, and I don't know what kind of wardrobe, they didn't have summers, they didn't have winters, but they had what's best you could have, and it's a house, family, and children. They lived for the children. They didn't live for expensive shoes, they didn't live to buy the latest iPhone when it came out in September, they didn't live for the newest Samsung in the spring when it came out, they lived for crying kids, for diapers. They didn't say, it's hard for me to wash after a baby, they didn't say I'm young or I'm young, there's time, I'll be 50 years old, so I'll be a grandfather to my child, that I can't understand him, that we can't follow his time and his growing up together. These are very important topics that we need to talk about. I'm sorry that part of my colleague doesn't care that they chat with each other. I ask the chairman to remind other fellow Members that this is an important topic and that is a question for each and every one of us. Elemental courtesy today. Elemental responsibilities and towards themselves, who tomorrow who are 20 and 30 years old today will look at you when you get in 50, 60, and you need a cure. Who's going to get you that medicine? Who's going to retire when you can't go to the market for you? Who will one day, God forbid someone has to operate, heal, who will visit you? Who's staying at your place? Who will be with you if you don't have children or grandchildren. Then there won't be a neighbor, they'll all leave or we'll disappear. We've created so much today. So many victims have suffered and this country has done so much since 2012 until today, that we must not miss that chance, that last chance that Serbia has to survive. I said, who are we making these factories for? We're not making it safe for one or two generations and then we're putting a lock on it, but we're probably doing a projection like Alexander Vukic, a vision today, and we're thinking about what's going to happen in 2030. Well, that's how finance is designed, and plans and security issues and everything else. For the first time in this country, that's what you're thinking today. For the first time, we don't think from today to tomorrow. For the first time, we're thinking strategically, visionaryly. I'm afraid of what happens if we don't have Alexander Vukic as President of the Republic. Where will this country go if those who won't listen to it when it comes to demographic politics, if we don't care or those who say, I've had enough of one child. Well, it's not enough, not because someone's been forcing you to give birth, but because we've been back in 60 years since 1945, we've broken our system of values, absolutely. Because we were raised in the wrong way. Well, someone says patriarchal education is a sign of violence, as one expert said two, three days ago from Luxembourg. They were totally destroying the Serbian family for the past 50 or 60 years, until it became normal for you to have no children, that the child beats the parents, that we all fight each other, that we don't talk about what we otherwise think, that we call for the murder of the President of the Republic and no one, that no independent regulatory organisations, bodies and others, who receive serious monthly fees, are not interested in the general when it is said, President Ceausescu remembers how they shot him, so you go through. It says, they say, the distinguished great director, Goran Markovic, and still gets a prize in one of the weekly ones, marking him as the personality of the year. It's been so quiet, there's no scandal about it, nothing. The man said and that's it and he still gets awards, and it's still the personality of the year. Are we aware of how much danger lies over this society if someone we did yesterday as much as we did, so much respect and thought that a serious cultural worker could say such crazy, disgusting, something so disgusting and creepy that the president of the Republic who was guilty because he built everything he built, because he raised Serbia, brought us so far that we could invest in the recovery of the population demographically, that such a man exists those who want to shoot. And they call themselves top intellectuals. I'm not gonna say what I'd call a person like that because I'd get another code or I don't know what. And what codes apply to them? What rules apply to them? I've been declared an insult expert. Guys, I get nervous when I hear that someone could have trafficked 619 million while he was in power, and he didn't have shoes to buy until he came to power. And now that he's not the authorities, he's still making less traffic and income because he's not in power, and he's very smart. Here, I can ask the minister and the rest of you -- do either of you have tens of thousands and not 619 million euros? Are we all stupid here? Retardinary, so we don't know how to make money? I don't think that's funny at all. It's sad for me. It's unfortunate that in one society, such a man can run for any function and no one can do anything. What Anti-Corruption Agency? Well, that man is a synonym for thieving, a synonym for haughtiness, a synonym for the outflow of young people from this country. What young? Well, they say they're young... It's pure nebulosis and lies. What normal and young man can be on the side of the one who stole them in hundreds of millions of euros and therefore made them the kind of toilets that we didn't have before Alexander Vukic's arrival, the kind of college that we didn't have before Alexander Vukic's arrival, the kind of roads we didn't even have, the hospitals we didn't have, the homes of health we didn't have? Well, what kind of young man can be for that? What young man can be for that and support that man who left their parents without a job and took his jobs to over 50 different accounts all over Europe and the world, who flew for tens of thousands of euros on a daily basis, comes and says, "Well, what do you want?" Who can only stop a cop and do his job, catch him in a car accident, say: Master, you'll be out of a job when I come to power. Does a young man need to go to the Police Academy and then imagine when he stops a Gilas from telling him that you'll be out of a job and that you'll never get a job when I'm in power. This is the synonym of his policy – shutting down jobs, cancellations, out of work. What's he talking about, blackmailing? The Serbian Progressive Party and Aleksandar Vukic have opened hundreds of thousands of new jobs and hired hundreds of thousands of new people. Of course we have over 700,000 members, of course we have votes of over 2.5 million, certainly because people of common sense live in this country. People aren't brainwashed, people see when they put their hand in their pocket how much money they have when they raise their wages, pay their bills and go to the store, see what's left. They see that it's also for food, and for schooling, and for books, they see that we help, they see pensioners giving them as much as they can for a year and a year. They know it didn't fall out of the sky, they know that it came from a serious, hard, hard work that was invested in the past decades. They know that it didn't come easy, they know it didn't come by staring and stealing, but by investing in the budget by building someone, by attracting investors, by being the best in economic growth in Europe. By best attracting foreign investment in the region, billions of investments coming to Serbia are being measured year after year. That's why young people stay in Serbia. That's why April 3rd, people know what they're going to round up. That's why they know they're going to celebrate New Year's and Christmas holidays nice and happy and that we're all celebrating the 3rd of April victory together. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11942	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Svetlana Milijac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11943	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear Minister Dmitrovic, with a co-worker, respected citizens of Serbia, today there is an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which is indeed something Serbia has long been waiting for. Serbia has waited a long time because it has not had the kind of statesman it has headed the country, and his name is Aleksandar Vukic. Aleksandar Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia who has done many things for our country, a man with a clear vision for a better future in Serbia, a man who is brave and determined. These amendments and amendments to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, except for the first-born child, the family should receive 300,000,00 dinars of one-time state aid, and for a second-born and third-born child of 100,000,00 dinars. This law will contribute to a special incentive for the birth of children and certainly increase the material position of the most vulnerable families, families that have children with disabilities or children with special needs, i.e. vulnerabilities. The law is an important instrument of population policy and is one of the priority definitions of the Republic of Serbia headed by Aleksandra Vukic. The Koron virus pandemic has set before all countries of the world, including the Republic of Serbia great challenges in order, above all, to preserve the health and life of its citizens, to increase people's living standards, but also to preserve the economy and economy. The law stipulates that, apart from state aid of 300,000,00 for the firstborn baby and 1000.000 dinars for the second-born and third-born children, mothers have the possibility, or achieve the right to purchase real estate in their name. The responsible policy of the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, will see the expected economic growth of our country as 7.4%. Such economic growth, this growth rate has allowed the Republic of Serbia to fight in this way to increase the standard of living of our citizens. Serbia headed with Aleksandar Vukic is next to Ireland's most successful countries regarding the cumulative GDP growth rate. The expected growth after the autumn meeting of the European Commission for Serbia will be 6.7%. This is for, as much as 2.4% more than the European Commission's spring session, which sets Serbia as the best country compared to Europe, or the Eurozone. The positivity of the growth trend of our economy and our economy is not only seen in the state aid that all citizens, now and all children, or families with children, are looking at the positive trend of our economy and our economy through the responsible policy of leading this country, which is led by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. It is also viewed through reduced unemployment, increased employment, looked through new roads, through new traffic, it is viewed through an increase in living standards and doctors and military-security structures, it is seen through the fact that in 2017 in the presidential elections, Aleksandar Vukic won over two million of our votes. We have shown that the responsible state policy in a country where public debt is now below 60%, or below the Mastricht, which is 58.2%. This was also the goal that was set before the government of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, when the current president, and the then prime minister, headed the government and appointed members of the government, because that year the public debt found by Serbia had more than 75%. The results of Alexander Vukic's struggle we see today. So we have a public debt below 60%, we have an unemployment rate of 9%, we have 400,000 newly employed workers in Serbia, we have 10 highways that we're building today, we have three hoofs of hospitals that we've built for each of them in less than four months. That's how we fought the pandemic. We also fought by Serbia being one of the four countries in Europe that has acquired the latest drug against the Kovid-19 pandemic, caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus. Aleksandar Vukic, the country's brave and strong man, with a clear vision, says Serbia is an open and democratic society. Yes, it is oriented towards neighbouring republics in good neighbourly relations, with good relations with the international community, directed primarily to preserve the lives and health of our citizens and to increase the standard of living. This is precisely what this law that we have on the agenda today and which I, like other members of the "Alexander Vukic – for our children" Group, will adopt, but for this very reason, because of this strong and modern Serbia, there is this multicom group that wants to bring down a stable Serbia, to overthrow Aleksandar Vukic from power. It is those who constantly attack the president and his family - Jeremic, Djilas, Solak, Marinika Tepic and ask them from this place if they will mind the adoption of such a law, as everything else bothers them? These are the people who drew a target on Alexander Vukic's forehead and called for guns to be directed and to shoot Alexander Vukic, because he cannot leave power otherwise. He can't, because the people love him. The people will vote for Alexander Vukic, but this drawing of targets led by Alexander Vukic is not only directed at Alexander Vukic, it is directed at all other citizens of this Serbia who voted for Alexander Vukic and who will vote for Alexander Vukic on 3 April and is close to three million of them, and therefore, respected citizens of Serbia, to win with Alexander Vukic for an even better and more modern Serbia. Long live Serbia and a happy New Year!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11944	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic. The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11945	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected citizens of Serbia, I was as part of a discussion yesterday on the law that is before us and which I find very important, talking about that we have submitted an amendment to the law with one goal, which is that we may more precisely define the category of single parents when it comes to the measures that this law provides. You have decided to refuse the amendment, which is legitimate, and what I have in front of me is the report from the Committee. There is no explanation left, and I will be infinitely grateful if I hear it at the session for both myself and the citizens, but first of all, I will explain why we paid particular attention and we thought it was important to talk about this category of people. I also said yesterday that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legal act in our country regarding single parents in Serbia in Article 66 provides that the family, mother single parent and child in the Republic of Serbia enjoy special protection under the law. A law that regulates the position of single parents in Serbia in more detail has never been passed, and Family Law provides for a category of parents who exercise parental law on their own. Therefore, the only relatively clear and comprehensive definition of the concept of single parents provides a rule on closer conditions and how to exercise the right to financial support for the family with children. In that sense, we thought it might be good to define it a little bit more precisely, so before I do, I'll tell you the information for the public and for all of us, that after the 2011 census and according to the data of the Republic Statistics Institute, in Serbia we have 291,522 single mothers with 381,201 children, which makes up a total of 672,723 members of such single-parent families. We have 76,435 single fathers with 101,623 children, making up 178,058 members of such single-parent families. So in Serbia, we have 367,957 single parents with 482,824 children or a total of 850,781 members of such families, which, believe it or not, is 17.3% of the total population. This data was a motive to maybe define it more precisely, but I'd be happy to hear from you... I'm sure you understand the problem, and I'm sure you have a more adequate solution that may not have been implemented so quickly in this law, and I'm sure all my colleagues along with me will support any solution that you will offer on the subject in the future, but once again I ask that this category be a category of which we will pay particular attention to. Why am I saying all this? Because the times behind us are difficult and under the circumstances that this is the last address this year, everything we've done, and we've done a lot of, respected colleagues know, the citizens of Serbia know, this meeting has brought over 180 acts over the past year. It is a big and serious job we have done for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. So we were fully aware and fully responsible for what responsibility we bear by the fact that we have received the trust of respected citizens. For this reason, I will take the opportunity to really wish the name of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group to all our citizens, first of all, a lot of happiness and health or a lot of health and happiness. Somehow health is the only thing to put an accent on under the circumstances of fear of two years behind us, to express hope that we will end this fight that is unfair with Kovid-19, because it will give us the strength to focus additional energy on these issues that are very important. I am immensely glad that this year's law is the law we are talking about and that this year we will end up in a way that we have decided to help mothers, young parents and show how important children are and how much we think about Serbia that needs to last and be proud of ourselves, exactly how proud we are of our ancestors today. So, once again, for all Serbian colleagues and all Serbian citizens, I really want all the best from the heart and on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and we will see each other right after the holiday safely with new tasks and new acts that we will discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11946	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11947	Dear Mrs Puanovic, very short. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed legal solution covers the mother who gave birth to the child, whether married or not, as well as whether or not the child is a recognised fatherhood. It is also defined in which the child's father can apply for this right. Of course, it stays open as a problem. In this law we've already intervened a few times. Anything that in practice turns out to be better, or estimated to be better, we'll work on it. Anyway, thank you for your concern and your uninterrupted participation whenever I've been here on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11948	Thank you. According to the amendment, Professor Marko Atlagic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11949	Dear Vice President Dr. Orlic, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am glad that the government has accepted part of the amendments with which we will certainly contribute to the improvement of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children in general. This will contribute in part, I say, to underline this in part, to improve the overall demographic picture in Serbia. Why do I say that in part? Well, because money isn't crucial. I agree, Mr. Minister, I watched your show on one television that is crucial consciousness, and consciousness doesn't change that easily. It's a question of more factors in society, and in the first instance of education and education, and in the first part of the education that we've left there's already, in my opinion, 20 years. The period of the former government, there was no mention of the word education in schools. I believe that next year we will give special attention to this problem. Today, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, when I read the press that Dragan Gilas, otherwise for Europe, Gilas, would run for mayor of Belgrade, I remained shocked by his insolence. A man who will certainly remain recorded in the Belgrade city's annals as the worst mayor in Belgrade's history. A man who before entering political functions was ordinary naked, and when he left political functions, became a tycoon with hundreds of millions of euros in income. As mayor of Belgrade, Gilas only worked marketingly. That's not what I'm saying, said former US Ambassador to Belgrade Cameron Manter in 2009, quote, pay attention, respected citizens, quote: "Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade is only marketing, not real." It's a finished quote. And you, respected citizens, or respected Belgrade citizens, are eyewitnesses of that, and my smallness will now remind you of that. So for Dragan Gilas, Europe's Gilas, the construction of the National Museum in Belgrade was just marketing, no more, no less than 13 years, and for Alexander Vukic the reality, as you have seen respected citizens. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the Contemporary Art Museum in Belgrade was just marketing, no less, no more than 14 years, and for Alexander Vukic the reality. You, respected citizens, are witnesses to that. So for Dragan Gilas, the construction of Beograd on Water was just marketing, and for Aleksandra Vukica the reality. You, respected Belgrade citizens and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are witness to this. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the temple of St. Sava on Vračar was just marketing, and for Aleksandra Vukića the reality. You, respected citizens and respected Belgrade citizens, are a witness to that. Thus, building a fast track in Belgrade – Novi Sad was only marketing for Dragan Gilas, and for Alexander Vukic, as you can see, reality. You, respected Belgrade citizens and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are witnessing this. So for Dragan Gilas, the resuscitation of "Smederevo" was only marketing for years, and for Aleksandra Vukića the complete reality. You are witnesses, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to that. So for Dragan Gilas, the reconstruction of the Republic Square in Belgrade was just marketing, and for Alexander Vukic, the complete reality. So for Dragan Gilas, Europe's Gilas, building a Belgrade subway was only marketing for years, and for Alexander Vukic, as you can see these days, respected citizens, a complete reality. So for Dragan Gilas, raising the monument to Stefan Nemanja was just marketing, and for Alexander Vukić, the complete reality. You are witnesses, respected Belgrade citizens and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to that. So for Dragan Gilas, building a health home in Borca in the Palilula municipality in Belgrade was for years only marketing, and for Aleksandra Vukic the reality. You, respected citizens of the Palilu and Borce municipality, are particularly witnesses to this. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the Clinical Centre in Belgrade was for years only marketing, and for Aleksandra Vukic the complete reality. You, respected Belgrade citizens, are witnessing it. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I could do what was marketing for Dragan Gilas, and for Alexander Vukic the reality, to list you for hours, but this is also enough for you to see what Dragan Gilas was, and today, a great pest for the people of Belgrade, and not only the people of Belgrade, but also the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dragan Gilas is the man who was only designed to destroy, not build. I particularly stress, so in December 2021 he said, quote, believe it or not, but it is true what he said, I quote -- when I win power, I will take a hundred of the best lawyers and stop everything that is being built in Belgrade and Serbia. It's a finished quote. Can you, respected Belgraders and citizens of Serbia, believe that this is pronounced by tycoon Dragan Gilas? This, respected citizens, means that when he wins power, there will be no more salary, no more salary, no more pensions, and there will be no bread if he comes to power, because we've already had a chance to see what he was like in power. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Gilas, for Europe of Gilas, are not interested in the state of Serbia. If he was interested, he wouldn't mind intonating the anthem at the beginning of the school year. So his TV Nova S spit out the state for deciding to intonate an anthem at the start of the school year. That Gilas does not hold onto the citizens of the Republic of Serbia also shows that he said on 14 August 2021, I quote -- Serbian citizens who vote for Alexander Vukic and SNS, which is, I remind you, more than 70%, are monkeys. It's a finished quote. There you are, dear citizens, honoring you, Dragan Gilas. Gilasov's failed candidate for SANU Goran Markovic has been insulting and humiliating Alexander Vukic for years for no reason. Thus, in a people called the Bumblebee, President Vukic and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were executed on July 4th 2019 by President Vukic and the dictionaries of the village coachman. Markovic then said, quote - all those who praise and support Vukica are worthy of contempt. He was and remained a commoner. For hygienic reasons, I don't want to stay in the same room with him. It's a finished quote. This is the one, Goran Markovic, who was declared a person of the year by the newspaper "Time", precisely because of these quotes that I, respected citizens, only spoke to you about the state of Serbia, about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and about the president of the Republic and the honourable MPs. In addition to insulting and humiliating the president and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Goran Markovic also humiliates the state of Serbia, which he said on November 25th 2021, quote - Serbia is the bottom. It's a finished quote. Not only that, but he goes on to humiliate President Vukic, unremembered in the history of poverty, so he says, I quote - if I had to make a movie about Alexander Vukic, I would have to throw up all the time. It's a finished quote. On 21 August 2020, the moral gromada Goran Markovic called his colleagues to fence the monument of Stefan Nemanje. And that's not all. Moral gromada Goran Markovic does not stop, so President Vukic and the regime called, believe it or not, terrorists, by saying on August 30, 2019, I quote, "There is no point in going to elections in this terrorist Vucic regime," the quote concluded. Did you, Mr. Goran Markovic, say this or not? Goran Markovic, a moral gromada, threatened 15 December 2021, believe it or not, to his colleagues only because they co-operate with the authorities, and by shooting like Alexander Vukic. He said, I quote, "Many of my colleagues are just miserable, they represent the occupiers, and it is known that the occupier's associates are going through when freedom takes place," the quote concluded. Is it true, Mr. Markovic, that you said this or not? It is true that Goran Markovic also threatened Zoran Djindjic. He says he didn't. Yes, when he was killed a month before the assassination on 14 February 2003, I quote: "I would love to see a man who has a format that could stand up to Djindjic," the quote concluded. Did you say this, Mr. Markovic, or didn't you? Dear citizens, only a month later, Goran Markovic's wish came true. Goran Markovic, a moral gromada, continues to insult Alexander Vukic. So on July 4, 2019, he said, quote: "Vučić is a primitive personality, he was and remained a commoner, the crowd is its primitive environment," finished quote. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that is why the magazine "Time" declared Gorana Markovic a person of the year for insulting the state of Serbia, for insulting the President of the Republic and for insulting you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Goran Markovic, the moral size, calls for the murder of Aleksandar Vukic, said on December 16th 2021, quote: "I still hope that Vučić has Causevskov's end in his eyes," the quote concluded. And look at the wonders, NGOs, news associations and so on. The elite, instead of condemning Goran Markovic, put themselves on his defense and thus directly became his accomplices in the wicked work. Once again, I would like to recommend to Goran Markovic, the moral size, that these abominations he has spoken, which I have quoted and those I did not quote about Alexander Vukic, about the state of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia along with Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Dilas hours, and put in his study to remind himself daily of his high range of civilization and democratic culture. However, when he wakes up every morning, he will look in the mirror at the sight of a crazed beetle full of hatred for his President Vukic, according to his state of Serbia and Serbian citizens. I'm afraid, respected citizens, that hate will explode. God help him. Goran Markovic said, visiting Gilas' N1 television that he also wrote a philosophy that, I quote, "full of the dark voids he has on him", finished the quote. The moral size of Markovic has so dark in him that it takes at least three lives to fill them, so I recommend it at the Holy Sava Temple for prayer. Mr. Markovic, I recommend you enroll in the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade now, and for graduate work to take on the educational function of a person, it may change. It's the wish of all of us. Dear People's MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while Goran Markovic, Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic daily muds President Vukic, the state of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, until then our President Aleksandar Vukic leads peace policy, security policy, health policy of all our citizens and regions, the "Open Balkans" policy, economic progress policy, Serbia's building policy and accelerated modernisation, all due to the future of our country. In that name lived Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11950	Thank you, Professor. The remaining time for debate is 10 minutes. The word is Branimir Spasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11951	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with an associate, respected fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, each year we have fewer and fewer marriages, and on the other hand more divorces, and as a result, or better to say as a consequence, we have increasingly fewer children born. When we add to that the number of deaths that are increasing more and more each year, we come up with one very, very worrying data and it is time to ask ourselves what kind of future awaits us if this trend continues. Of course, this is not only a problem in Serbia. This is a global problem that unfortunately did not bypass our country either. If we look at statistics, statistics tell us that in some EU countries the decline in birth rate is over 20%. Each country struggles with this in its own way, thus implementing various actions, implementing measures or financial measures, as our country does, and all with one goal – to encourage the birth of children. In response, and as one measure of support to the family, as an incentive for the birth of children, it is this law that we speak of and the changes that are on the agenda, as well as amendments that bring 300,000 dinars for the first child and 100 thousand dinars for the second and third child, as another significant change concerning the aid in the purchase and construction of the first real estate. As a member of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, my colleagues and I were pleased to vote for the proposed changes and certainly these are significant changes, and somehow it seems to me that they will mean more to those environments and underdeveloped areas, for undeveloped local self-governments, as is my municipality, which is the municipality of Lebana. I have to comment on something else about the standard of living itself. The past has shown us that living standards have absolutely nothing to do with Natalie. The evidence of this is many countries of the world that have, so to speak, a high or good standard of living, but they still have a problem with the birth rate still registering every year the fall of birth. So it's not about living standards, it's not about money, it's about us. I'm convinced of one thing, which is that whatever country in the world, whatever measure they're going to implement, will never return to that baby birth trend that was 30, 40 or 50 years ago. Unfortunately, neither will we. I'm also convinced that these measures we're taking right now, the minimum we can expect from them is to at least stop the further decline of birth. It's the minimum we can expect, and I believe we can expect more. Why can we expect more? If we look at today, young couples have greater financial stability with these measures that the state gives, have greater financial security, and if we only remember how our political opponents, who were then at the head of the government, treated families, how they were working to encourage the birth of children, we have more reason to believe in the better tomorrow. We're free of roads and tracks if they won't have anyone to go to. We're free of schools and kindergartens if we don't have children in them. This problem was recognised by President Aleksandar Vucic, and he proposed to the government of the Republic of Serbia this financial measure that we are talking about today, and he speaks enough of it as a statesman, as a man who cares and fights for the future of Serbia, who advocates the preservation of those true family values, because the nation's strength rests on the integrity of the family. We're a strong people, we're used to fighting and winning even when it's most difficult for us, and that's why I believe that, with the implementation of this responsible policy, we're going to beat this white plague. Long live our children and lived Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11952	Thank you. We've got five minutes to discuss. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11953	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear Ministers, Mr Dmitrovic, with his associate, distinguished fellow MPs and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the family is the most important thing. The family is the pillar of our society, and that the family is the pillar of our society we know it from the Serbian Progressive Party and we know it well and therefore our slogan is "Alexander Vukic – To our children". This slogan of ours, we prove it every day. We're also proving by this law. The Serbian government also proves its activities. It's just enough to say how many states in this year and two months since the new government, how much has it helped our family to strengthen this help itself, and let's just remember how much more extensive my colleagues have talked about it, sometimes helping a firstborn child, and there were tens of thousands of dinars, twenty thousand dinars, it seems to me that six or seven years ago there were 38,000 dinars, and today there's 300,000 dinars, and it's not just help for a firstborn child. We've heard concrete data on how much this aid is for both the second-born child and the third-born child and when the situation with the twins is. So the state shows that it takes care of families because our Serbian Progressive Party is the most important state of Serbia and the family, but all the families in Serbia. Every family is important and every one of us is our own family most important. That is why I would like to refer to today's reports that we had the opportunity to listen to about the work of the trustee and to the presentation of my colleague Marinkovic, who was our rapporteur, who pointed out a great problem made by Commissioner Marinović's service by investigating the business of winery in which the son of the President of the Republic, Danilo Vukic. Is it possible for the Commissioner for Public Information to be one of the most important information in which a wine shop and hundreds in Serbia operate? It's just saying that those opponents of Alexander Vukic and our policies have their own people in many institutions. If we care about families, if we care about Serbia, well, we must also support our President, Alexander Vukic. Does the family of President Vukic have the right to freedom, freedom of movement, protection? There is. Does the eldest son of President Alexander Vukic have the right to work? There is. So this is our final message to those who have no sacred opposition, but we don't want to talk about them. Now we're at the end of the year, we want to talk about us, and when I say we're talking about us, we're talking about our program. The Serbian Progressive Party programme is for our children, for the future of Serbia, for the future of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and it is best to implement the programme by our president and leader Aleksandar Vukic. On this occasion, I wish all the best for all Serbian citizens in 2022, and my comrades and our president a convincing victory. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11954	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. The Minister also answered for the word. Here you go, Mr. Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11955	Thank you. Dear Members, thank you for your participation in the debate. Thank you for taking the floor and listening carefully, there was a proposal, there were interesting initiatives, but in all of them there is one common component, it is a complete understanding of the dimension of this problem. These are extremely important measures and I have no doubt that they will produce results, but to avoid anyone coming and saying, "Minister, you have said several times that money is not crucial," I will now say that the money is not crucial. I can hang up a little bit if you haven't finished anything else. Money is important, but it's not crucial. If it were crucial, I'd repeat what I said yesterday, then in Europe we'd be solving this demographic problem in a very short time, but what we've done now is extremely important and this is one big step forward and I think I'm repeating what I said, that it will produce results. It's done maximum. Everything we could do in one correlation between the president of the state, the government, within the government, the President's cabinette, my cabinet, the finance minister, all we could do is do and that's the optimum right now. What we need to do, which is not a matter of moment, is here several times mentioned, it's a matter of consciousness. How and in what way, and that's the hardest question, and that's the most difficult thing to change, because it's been changing the longest way up, now we have to see how to raise it and go at least about where it's been. I don't have any dilemma that it's possible to do this just by establishing a vertical value. It means that, and this applies to everything, it starts with me, that we try to give meaning to those of us in our society that we can benefit from and those that this society can pull forward. They're certainly not starlets from which we can't open our eyes, which, every day, come out of the press, jump out of the electronic media in front of our eyes. They're not criminals, they're not midwives who are also engulfing our lives, and we can somehow defend ourselves, but how are those kids gonna defend themselves, and they're the center of this whole story? When they're alone, when there's no one to tell them, "Here's what you see is not good," when they still have, as many of us have a fascination with television, so everything that comes from television, that's something that's important, what we can and need to look up to, then we're raising in a completely wrong way, mostly unconsciously, tolerateing what I'm talking about, our children, and we can't expect anything significantly better. We must restore the integrity of the world, but restore the reputation of those of whom we live. We mentioned here several times and food. We're getting into a big problem with demographic problems, and that's, among other things, food production. If we continue at this rate, so-called. urbanization which, of course, implies the disappearance of the village, the lightning disappearance of the village, and I continue to argue that demographics cannot be restored if we rule out the element of the village and the suburban settlements, we have no chance at all. We have to do it in a media way, and now I'm all about what I'm saying to my colleagues today, the heroes and the prominent citizens of our society, the farmers, the cattlemen, the bakers, the craftsmen, the tailors. We're the historical so-called. Civilian walk made it to that. It wasn't like that before, believe me, there are many of you young people here, and those people whose craft we lived from were very respected people. We've come to a situation, and I'm talking about this mosaic that I mentioned yesterday, that for someone who lives in the country, if it's a family, if it's a man, and more and more alone, if I'm not mistaken, 260,000 bachelors are in Serbia, let's say, we take our hand off -- ma, they live in the country. It's like they're less valuable because they live in the country. Let's try to make everyone, everyone in their microspace, the situation that those who live in the country, start with the state, we'll do and do it, but anyone who can tell anyone who lives in the country -- you live in the country, yeah, great. We are in such a relationship, and there are no innocents, absolutely, this has been going on for decades, that we don't have craftsmen today. We're in a big labour problem. I keep talking about demographics, I talk about demographics all the time. We have a big problem for the workforce. Look at the construction sites, people come to us to build buildings, to work on highways, thousands of miles away. Why is that? What happens in 15 years? Someone said two days ago - we have up to 120,000 butchers. Well, we'll have some craftsmen, we'll pay them 220 grand, but there won't be, because in that system of values, some imaginary occupations we've received from somewhere, thinking that everything that comes from Europe and the world of developed capitalistism, this isn't ideology, that's good. It's not good, it turns out it's not good. Let's accept one more thing, that what's not good, that we give it up, but without thinking about it. I'll be done very soon. For those of you who follow sports, especially football, you know for one rule that was introduced a few years ago, that in direct transmission the director is obliged to turn off the camera that covers the terrain or part of the field or on the ground if something that is inappropriate is happening, something that is ugly. Before, there were cases of someone stripping naked and running into the field to make an exhibition, to talk about him, to get into the media. The moment that decision was made, it was interrupted by 99%. There are no more cases, because this one no longer has motive. What do I mean? I'm asking my fellow journalists, editors, to eliminate, it's not difficult, it's possible, for 40 years I've been in this business, those ugly statements, that they eliminate primitiveism, that they eliminate what good it won't do anyone, except that poor guy or the poor guy will make a sensation that will last 24 hours. Is that all possible? Yes, it is. This is not the only solution, there is no one, if there were one, that's what I said yesterday, that would be the richest man in the world, but it's very important in something called vertical values and something called the creation of consciousness. Because without it, there's nothing we can do. We're free of all this. We're free of all this if criminals and starlets continue to dominate our lives and those of whom live are not even on the margins. I'm asking you for the very end to think about it. I thank you for understanding and understanding and supporting these measures, and I have no doubt you will vote for them. We're going to do everything we can in the time that's left until the end of the term of office that, possibly, there's something else that we have on the table that we're thinking about applying, either in legal form or in the recommendation, which is very important in the recommendation, because then we come to look at ourselves and say, come on, we can do it without the law. Please, for the very end, keep in mind, I'm not asking, and I have no right to ask anyone to have more children, everyone has a right, but keep in mind that there is nothing more valuable than human life, and in particular there is nothing more valuable than a new human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-0.u11956	Thank you, Minister. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, December 29th, 2021, starting at 17.33 p.m. as a day for voting on agenda items of the 16th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Right after that, we will also hold a vote on the agenda of the Ninth Special Session in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 166 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a law amending the Law on the time limits for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the decision on the bill. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the time-limits for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of -171, for -170, did not vote - one MP. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you it's Article 2. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, as established at the time of their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than 8 days from the day of its publication. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 171, for – 168, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the time-limits for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 171, for – 170, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a bill amending the Law on the time-limits for the settlement of monetary liabilities in commercial transactions. The second item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 13. The constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, elects judges by majority of the votes of all MPs. I would like to put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, in general, please press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 171, for – 171. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Allow me to congratulate on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf the elected functionholders in the election and wish them a lot of success in the work. Third item of the agenda – List of candidates for a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, I remind you that the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy has proposed a candidate for the selection of a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council. I also remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 paragraph 15. The constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises the electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect candidate Cedomir Radojcic as a member of the Competition Protection Council for a period of five years. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 171, for – 169, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly chose Cedomir Radojcic as a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council most of the votes of all MPs. Congratulations to the chosen candidate, and I wish him a lot of success in his work. Fourth item of the agenda – I put to the vote The draft conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services for 2020, which was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications on 25 November 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I am suspending the vote: a total of – 171, for – 168, against one MP, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a conclusion by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The fifth item of the agenda - I am putting on the vote Proposal for a decision to give consent to the amendments and additions of the Commission's financial plan for values for 2021, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 171, for – 170, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The sixth item of the agenda – I am putting on the vote Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Commission's financial plan for values for 2021, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 171, for – 169, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The seventh item of the agenda – I put on the vote Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media for 2022, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 171, for – 169, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The eighth point of the agenda. I am voting on the draft decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2022, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 171, for – 168, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The ninth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act for the family with children, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 172 for – 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Djordje Milicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 27, abstention – one, 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. I remind you it's Article 5. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force on 1 January 2022. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, as established at the time of their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than 8 days from the day of its publication. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 171, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act to the family with children, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 174 for – 174. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. The tenth item of the agenda. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Food Safety in the Western Balkans, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for -173, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you it's Article 3. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia - International Treaties". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 172 against – one, no vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Food Safety in the Western Balkans, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for -173, did not vote – one. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has passed the bill. Eleventh point of the agenda. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on conditions for free access to the labour market in the Western Balkans, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for - 172 abstention – one, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you it's Article 3. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia - International Treaties". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 172 against – one, no vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on conditions for free access to the labour market in the Western Balkans, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for - 172 abstention – one, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The 12th point of the agenda. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of the approval of authorised economic operators for security and security (AEOS) in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for -173, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I remind you it's Article 3. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia - International Treaties". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total – 175, for – 173, v – one, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of the approval of authorised economic operators for security and security (AEOS) in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 176 for - 174 did not vote - two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Thirteenth point of the agenda. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement to connect the electronic identification of citizens of the Western Balkans in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 176, for - 175, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you it's Article 3. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia - International Treaties". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 176 for - 174 against – one, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on the integration of electronic identification schemes for citizens of the Western Balkans as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 176 for - 174 did not vote - two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the 16th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021.
