ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the ninth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when adopting the minutes and setting out the agenda, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 165 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You were presented with the logs of the Fifth and Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly and the Third Special Sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that, by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative Budget and Immunity Affairs, it has been established in that committee that none of the Members of Parliament has submitted in writing any objection to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the fifth session of the First Regular Session, held on 30 and 31 March and 1, 6 and 7 April 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of - 168, for – 166, did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Fifth Session of the First Regular Session in 2021. I am voting on the minutes of the sixth session of the First Regular Session, held on 8 April 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of - 168, for – 166, did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Journal of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Session in 2021. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, held on 13 April 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of - 168, for – 167, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, adopted the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, in the assembly of this session, which has been delivered to you, there is also a proposal for the agenda of the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda in accordance with the urgent procedure, a proposal to bring the debate together and a proposal to change the order of each item of the agenda. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft Act amending the Republic of Serbia Budget Act for 2021, with a proposal for a decision to agree on the amending and supplementing Decision of the Republic of Serbia's 2021 Financial Fund for Pension and Invalidity Insurance, the Proposal for a Decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the 2021 Financial Fund for Health Insurance, the Proposal for a Decision on the granting of consent to the Amendments and Supplements of the Fund for Social Insurance of Military Insurance for the 2021st year and the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Decision on the Amendments and Supplements of the National Employment Service for the year 2021. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 169 for – 168, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraph 2, 157, paragraphs 1 and 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed that: 1st joint principled search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law on the provisional register of full-year citizens of the Republic of Serbia to whom financial assistance is paid for the mitigation of the pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the SARS-Cov-2 virus, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Law establishing a Guarantee Scheme as a measure of support for the economy to mitigate the effects of the pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the SARS-Cov-2 virus, the proposal for a law establishing another guarantee scheme as a measure of additional support to the Republic of Serbia as a result of the extended negative impact of the pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the SARS-Cov-2 virus virus, the Proposal for the Law on the Laws of the Republic of Republic of Croatia, the Law on the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of the Republic of Croatia on the Republic of Croatia's Law on the Republic of Croatia, amending the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law of the law of the Republic of the ECB and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of I take it Mr. Martinovic doesn't want a word? No, I don't. ) Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 169 for – 169. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure, he proposed a change in the order of agenda items, i.e. the draft law amending the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2021 as the first item of the agenda. I take it Mr. Martinovic doesn't want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting it to a vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 169 for – 168, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the proposal for the agenda of the emergency session of the act, the motion to merge the debate and the proposal to change the order of each item of the proposed agenda, on the basis of Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 170, for – 168, did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the ninth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. I ask the service to prepare a consolidated text of the agenda. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Republic of Serbia Budget Act for 2021, with a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the 2021 Financial Fund for Health Insurance for the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Treaty amending the 2021 Financial Fund for the Republic of health insurance, the Proposal for a Decision on the granting of consent to the Amending and Supplements of the Fund for Social Insurance of the Military Insurance Fund for the year 2021 and the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the National Employment Service Decision for the year 2021, which the Government submitted, 2. Proposal for a law on the Interim Register of Full-aged Citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be paid for financial assistance to mitigate the pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, which was submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a law amending the Law establishing a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the economy to mitigate the pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, which was submitted by the Government, 4. Proposal for a law establishing a second guarantee scheme as a measure of additional support to the economy due to the prolonged negative impact of the COVID-19 disease pandemic caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, which was submitted by the Government, 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, submitted by the Government, 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, submitted by the Government, 7. A Bill on Electronic Purchases, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending the Law on settlement deadlines for commercial transactions, submitted by the Government, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, which was submitted by the Government, 10. Proposal for a Law on the Register of Administrative Procedures, submitted by the Government, 11. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on mutual recognition of the AEO Customs Management Programme of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and the Credit Management Programme of the General Customs Administration of the People's Republic of China, which was submitted by the Government, 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement to encourage investments between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of America, which was submitted by the Government and 13. Proposal for a law confirming Annex 1 of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on co-operation in the area of implementation of priority projects in the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Republic of Serbia Budget Act for 2021, with a proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Republic of Serbia's Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2021, the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Amendments and Supplements of the Fund for Social Insurance of Military Insurance Funds for 2021 and the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2021. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure have been invited to attend Sinisa Mali Minister of Finance, Sasa Stevanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Darko Komnenic, Assistant Finance Minister Milesa Marjanovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance and Luka Tomic, head of the Office of Finance Minister. I also welcome the minister with my associates. You've received a bill from the government. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Before the opening of the principle and uniform search, pursuant to Article 97(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I propose that the time to discuss budget rebalancing based on the practice we have introduced, which is to adopt the budget, and hence the budget rebalancing itself without connecting with other points of the agenda and with a double duration of time for discussion. I propose twice the time for debate and this proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 169 for – 164 did not vote – five. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the proposal. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they have already done so to report immediately with the order of MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I just want to remind you, before the debate begins, that today we will consider the Budget Rebalance proposal and that tomorrow, on the basis of Mr Martinovic's proposal, we will consider these five laws which are essential that they be adopted as soon as possible and that tomorrow after the end of that debate, it will be a day to vote for budget rebalancing and for these five laws. Then we will continue the next debate, simply on Tuesday and Wednesday, and as I said Thursday before Easter, we will begin the tenth session with the first point of the amendment of the Law on Culture and the afternoon of asking questions to the government, headed by the Prime Minister, and then after that, Easter. Due to the duties of the minister today with the president and with the IMF today, I am very much determining a 14:00 to 15:30 break in advance, in order to ensure his presence during the debate. Pursuant to Article 157(1) and Article 192(3). Rules of Procedure, I am opening a principled single search on the draft law amending the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2021 with all other proposals for decisions. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Here you are, Mr. Minister, our dear guest here.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5627	Thank you very much. Dear Sir Dacic, the honourable MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, are today ahead of you a budget rebalance for 2021 to continue a strong fight against the pandemic of the coronary virus, to continue the battle for further progress in our economy, to raise the standard of living for Serbian citizens, and to continue to start and finish major capital projects that will, in years ahead, completely change the way Serbia works and the way Serbian citizens live. So three are the main reasons why this rebalance is in front of you today. The first is the third package to help our economy and citizens of Serbia. To remind you of the previous year, we had two aid packages, one in April, the second in September, the total value of those two aid packages was 704 billion dinars. This aid package is worth 257 billion. So the third package helps the second and the first, all three when you add that's about eight billion euros that the state of Serbia is helping both citizens and our economy. It is about 17.2% of our GDP and it is a package that we want to implement and that we are already implementing in order to preserve our production capacity, to preserve our jobs, in order to give optimism to the citizens of Serbia in the right way that the pandemic of the coronary virus is almost near the end and to create conditions for us to open our economy in the shortest time period completely after the mass vaccination has been successfully completed. The second reason why we are here today with the budget rebalance is the project "Serbia 2025" which President Vukic presented in 2019. So the project involves 14 billion euros in additional investment in road, rail and all other infrastructure in our country. In this budget rebalancing, you know, you never have more investment in capital investments. At the level of the general state, it is 7.2% of our GDP, and I will talk about it a little later, but for your information we have looked at the past 15, 20, 30 years back, we have never had such a large capital budget that allows for the continuation of all the initial capital projects in Serbia and the start of some new ones. The third reason why budget rebalancing today is ahead of you is the need for a further strong, strong response to the pandemic of the coronary virus when it comes to our health system. So in this rebalancing you have provided additional resources to obtain vaccines, medicines, everything that is necessary by the end of the year we successfully resist and end up hoping for a pandemic of the coronary virus. On the other hand, you have the necessary money to invest in all possible, if I can thus express my health infrastructure, so, at the beginning of building a new Kovid hospital in Novi Sad, at the beginning of the construction of a new vaccine factory. So we're going to be one of the few countries in the world that will have their own vaccine production, we're going to talk about it during the session, there's no need now to tell you how important it is to be one of the rare countries in the world, to have our own sovereign, independent production of vaccines. Of course, you also have the money needed to complete the Serbian Clinical Center in Belgrade, to start the reconstruction of the Vojvodina Clinical Centre in Novi Sad and many other homes of health and general hospitals throughout our country. So to understand the context of the economic and economic that we're going in and at what point we're going into this budget rebalance, let me just tell you a few details that are very important for this first quarter of this year. So, despite the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, despite the huge economic crisis in the whole world, especially in Europe, despite the fact that mass vaccination, if it lets me say, is not over or is not working as fast as some countries in Europe would like, our country has achieved decentness, if not exceptional results despite this pandemic of the Coronal Virus. We, ladies and gentlemen, had a plan for the first quarter deficit in the 80.9 billion dinar budget. That was our plan. Believe it or not, we've achieved a 23.5 billion deficit, alone. We have much better revenue collection, much more economic activity than we expected, so our business is definitely moving on. They are favourable movements in the real sector, industrial production in the first two months has achieved a stable annual growth of 2.6%, our processing industry, you know, production in the processing industry is at a historic maximum, which is the result of just opening up a large number of factories that occurred in the previous period, which President Vukic also opened, so on that side, this is the result that pushes our GDP forward and pushes us, after all, and this result when it comes to deficits. In the first two months, we also have a growth in traffic in trade to a little 3% higher annual, foreign trade exchange, despite the pandemic of the virus, also the annual growth of 3.3% in the first two months, with a better result in our public finances, I said just now, so 50 billion dinars and some billion dinars are a better result than we planned. The result of all these movements is that we expect in the first quarter that the decline in our economic activity, the decline in GDP, will be about 0.5%, and the initial plan for the first quarter, which, on the other hand, predicts 6% growth for the whole year, was minus 1.3. This gives us the right to, with this budget rebalance, this investment structure and the third package, help us expect that we will definitely reach 6% of our GDP growth, and for you and the citizens of Serbia, this is the most important thing, therefore, the growth of one economy is the key for every country right now, and we aim to be one of the best in Europe again, if not the best in Europe. And let me remind you that the result in the first quarter is not random. Look at the result of 2020, a large number of countries, much more developed, much stronger than Serbia, did not withstand the attack of the coronary virus pandemic, look at the number of unemployed, look at closed factories, closed production plants, huge problems facing much more developed and much stronger, economically stronger countries than Serbia, and look at us last year, in a timely, efficient, comprehensive programme of support and businesses and citizens, the first package of April, the second package of September months, we manage to have a decline in our GDP for the whole of 2020 among the smallest in Europe of minus 1%. We have the result that the unemployment rate is 9% in 2020, compared to 10.4% in 2019. So, despite the coronary pandemic of the virus, despite the huge economic crisis everywhere, we have fewer unemployed in 2020 than in 2019, precisely because together with you who voted and, ultimately, with the support of the citizens of Serbia, we managed to apply and implement both the first and second economic aid packages to both citizens and businesses, and we are exactly taking this into account with this third package. Also, what is important for all citizens of Serbia, in 2020 we have a growth in earnings compared to 2019. The average net earnings in 2020 have really increased by 7.7%, nominally by 9.4%, so despite the pandemic of the coronal virus, despite everything. We had absolutely stable inflation, we had a course in 2020 compared to the euro that hasn't changed, and I don't want to remind you that we had problems 10 years ago and over when there was another crisis in some previous government, with some previous regime, so as the crisis started, so the course jumped, so inflation went up. We have avoided these scenarios, responsible economic policy, co-ordination of monetary and fiscal policy, in the right way. What's particularly important to me, that's two things. As early as 2020, before I go into the details of the rebalancing process, but it is important for me to understand why and at what point we are entering budget rebalances for this year. So, with two aid packages last year, we thus supported the 100-euro economy that we gave to all full-time citizens, 6.2 million citizens of Serbia received that aid, we believed or not, had a higher value added tax charge in 2020, and by 5% in gross value, by more than 30% in the net value of payments compared to 2019. So, we had the closure of our economy for 45 days, we had various restrictions on movement, in production, etc., but with strong aid packages, big money, through guarantee schemes, through the payment of minimum earnings, through helping Serbian citizens with 100 euros we managed to secure the level of economic activity, to ensure that trade also works, that traffic works, and thus to collect more money into the budget. I don't believe it happened in some country in the region, certainly not, and probably not in Europe either. What is also most important for you and perhaps for all citizens of Serbia, a net inflow of foreign direct investment of 2.9 billion euros, a gross inflow of nearly 3.1 billion. So when you look at, say, countries in the environment, when you look at Montenegro, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, all together had 1.7 billion, and one Serbia had three billion euros in foreign direct investment. Just two aid packages, exactly what the state said – we are taking the biggest burden of the crisis on ourselves, we want to help our economy, help our citizens. Perhaps the biggest contribution to recovery is that the state pays every commitment in the day, in the dinar, in time, does not delay and thus supports our private economy, therefore, private workers working in our economy, ultimately, and public enterprises. This has just contributed to the change in the image of Serbia, to show and to show on a specific case, and a concrete example, the honourable MPs, is when there is a major crisis, so it shows who is a lion and who is not a lion, to show how serious we are, to meet all our obligations, so it is not by any chance that we have such an inflow of foreign direct investment last year. I'm proud of it when somewhere in October, in November, if I'm not mistaken, he was a cornerstone for the Tojo Tyres factory in India. So it was then the biggest Japanese investment, when you have a whole or half of Europe that's closed, a story about the pandemic of the coronary virus, we just didn't start the vaccination, but we have the beginning of the construction of the factory. And look now, you have again an even bigger Japanese investment called Niedek of two billion euros in Novi Sad. So security is there, Serbia's attractiveness as an investment destination is there and, in the end, believe it or not, the greatest indicator and the most objective indicator of the success of our economic policy is credit rating, despite the pandemic of the virus's coronary. Of the three largest rating agencies, two have kept our credit rating positive, and one "Mudis" even increased the credit rating by one level. It's just amazing, but it says how serious and responsible economic policy is, how much we take care of our public finances, how we take care of every dinar, and on the other hand, how we invest the money of Serbian citizens who are absolutely justified in the budget, and the perspective of growth is higher at the average of Europe as a whole. And despite this rebalancing, public debt to GDP will not exceed 60%. So that's the level of the mastrict we hold, we don't want to let that level go, but on the other hand, it's important that we realize all these investments that are in the budget rebalancing, to fight together, to achieve this growth of 6% by the end of the year, and to open up the possibility that, after the pandemic of the coronary virus, this growth of our economy is even greater in the years that are coming. Why is growth the most important? Why is everyone talking about growth? So, respected citizens of Serbia growth means new investments, more money in the budget, new jobs, more space to raise salaries, to raise pensions. So the overall economic paradigm at this point is based and rests in a way to find that one economy is growing. This budget rebalance is also based on this combination of investments through the third aid package, investment in capital investment "Serbia 2025" and investing in the fight against the pandemic of the corona virus in terms of strengthening our health is the only way to achieve it. About the details, what's related to the third aid package, so the first reason we bring this budget rebalance is the total value of this package is 257 billion dinars. That's when you add the first, second and third packages somewhere around 17.2% of our GDP. I've shown this many times. Here, this chart sums up that third package. Every month, we will somehow help our economy and our citizens of Serbia by the end of the year. So every month. We've already paid off, this red here is 50% minimum earnings for all businesses and micro and small and large enterprises, one million and 130 thousand workers this month received from the state of Serbia at 50% minimum profit, which is 251,000 entrepreneurs and companies. I invite them all to continue using this kind of help. We have also completed a competition to help car carriers, as promised, each car carrier, since we consider it to be one of the more vulnerable sectors, one of the more vulnerable sectors during the pandemic of the virus, will receive 600 euros per bus in the next six months. Also, we're done already, it's this blue here, I don't know how much you can see. So, a competition to help city hotels 350 euros per bed, 150 euros per room, we had a similar programme last year. We are helping sectoral and those who need additional assistance. When you look at the plan for May, if the laws are passed today and tomorrow 28 April, we will start applying for all of Serbia's adult citizens who want to get 30 plus 30 from the state, so 60 euros. The first 30 euros will be paid in May, the other 30 euros will be paid in November. Moreover, let me not forget, our oldest citizens are also owned by 50 euros that we will pay in September of the month, and in May of the month we will also receive payment from our fellow citizens living in the territory of KIM 100 euros for everyone who lives, 200 euros living in KIM territory, 200 euros for those who are unemployed and this is our programme that ends in May. In June already, as you can see, we have an additional incentive, additional support for all those who are registered at the Employment Service 60 euros for anyone who does not have a job right now and who is recorded on the Employment Service's record and what is new in this programme. We have two full minimum earnings that we pay to all independent artists. So, that is, if you take into account that the minimum earnings are 250 euros, that is 500 euros each and also a special sectoral aid of 500 euros, so two full minimum earnings for all employees in catering, tourism, tourist guides, rental agencies, etc. Of course, this down, two guarantee schemes, which are very important, so this has proved to be an extremely important element, the first and second economic aid package since last year, so 500m euros, we extend the existing guarantee scheme from two to 2.5 billion euros, and we add another 500m euros to those businesses, to support those companies that had a bigger problem and had more negative consequences for the Coronus virus, so that in this second package, or other guarantee schemes, the state guarantees these loans in a larger amount, so that we encourage banks to give easier and faster money to companies in a difficult financial position, in this way we also contribute to preserving both their jobs and to preserve their business. So, the first, second and third package of measures, based on the results of the first quarter, based on the fact that mass vaccination in Serbia has not yet been completed, that the global economy has not yet started at some high growth rate, we have decided to go with the third aid package, to take over the greatest burden of this crisis again at this moment, but also to ensure that we maintain production capacity, jobs and in any way mitigate the negative consequences of the coronary virus. I've been saying more than once, and I'm going to ask you here, and what would happen if we hadn't done the first, second and now the third package, help the economy and the citizens, and what would happen if we had those scenarios that you had the opportunity to see in other countries, so that if your factories were shut down, people would be out of work, and the factories would be out of the market, without products, and how many billion euros it would take us, and time and years to go back and rebuild and open those jobs. The question is, would that ever work? This is a very important message. So, yes, we take the greatest burden of this crisis on ourselves, but we want to keep jobs, to preserve production capacities, and that when this pandemic is over, to be best positioned, to move on at light speed to growth and development. That's why the second element and second reason for this rebalancing is very important, which is capital investment. Dear People's MPs, we have before you in this rebalancing never greater capital investment, ever. We watched, I say, 15.20, 30 years ago, 7.2 percent of our GDP, at the general state level, we invest in capital investments. That's 430 billion dinars, so 7.2% of GDP. The comparisons, only to have information, so the share of capital investment in GDP in 2010, was 3.2%. In 2011, it was 3.1% and in 2013, only 2 percent. We then increased that percentage in 2019, the share of public expenditure in GDP, by the end of fiscal consolidation, was 4.9%. Here's 7.2% today. So 430 billion dinars just for infrastructure investments. Why? Because it's absolutely the greatest driver of one economy's growth and we can't have much impact on what's going on in the global economy and when mass vaccination is going to end in some other countries, when they're going to start their economy. What we can influence, that's our budget and the money we give out of the public works budget, to build road, rail infrastructure, health infrastructure, and anything else that raises the quality of life of Serbian citizens, which, of course, pushes our GDP forward. We'll probably be a unique country in Europe, almost certainly, I don't know in the world. We are currently building a new four highways in Serbia. So, we build the Moravia Corridor, we build the highway Sremska Raca - Kuzmin, we build Preljina-Požega highway, we build Ruma-Shabac-Loznica. In budget rebalancing, honourable MPs, you have money for four new highways. We've already started work on the highway from Surcin to New Belgrade. You have money for the Nis-Pločnik-Medara highway. When did we have so much money for so many highways? You have money for the Danube highway, so from the Fireman to the Golupac. You have money to continue the work of Požega-Preljina and for the Fruskogorski corridor, which is the fourth highway. So, for the French Corridor. So, only by the end of the year will we build eight highways in Serbia, despite the pandemic of the coronary virus, despite the biggest economic crisis. Our decision, our commitment is – we go hard with investments, we go with Serbia being networked by highways in the shortest time period. In this budget you also have money for the bypass, the end of the bypass and the start of construction both around Novi Sad and around Gornji Milanovac and around Loznica, you have money to start building a metro in Belgrade. When did it happen to have so much money and to invest it in the right way in what directly affects security when it comes to traffic, in what directly affects our GDP growth, in what directly affects the quality of life in our country? In budget rebalancing, you have what is now one of the hot topics, and that's ecology. So you have an increased budget for the Ministry of Ecology by 50%. You have the money that we have provided for the start of the construction of sewage networks and wastewater treatment plants of 3.4 billion euros, which in the budget of the Ministry of Construction, Infrastructure and Transport 22 local self-governments from this package are moving works this year, what is part of the project "Serbia 2025", what President Vukic has promised, therefore, to complete sewerage networks in all local self-governments and to build a waste water treatment plant in each. Now, the money for that in this budget rebalancing you have. When it comes to health care, the third reason for the adoption of this budget rebalance, we have left enough money to obtain vaccines for the worst-case scenario. So for the purchase of vaccines, for the purchase of drugs, the supply of the necessary equipment that is necessary to combat the pandemic of the virus rapidly and in the right way. Not only that, we also left the money for further investment in health infrastructure. Thus, the completion of the construction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia in Belgrade, the beginning of the reconstruction of KC Vojvodina in Novi Sad, the completion and equipment of the House of Health in Borca, the completion and beginning of the work of KC in Kosovo Mitrovica, the House of Health in Gracanica, the completion of the reconstruction of general hospitals and health institutions from Loznica, Smederjevska Palanka, Vranja etc. It's all in this budget rebalancing. At this point, countries are ranked not only on how strong their economy is, but also on how strong their health is, and we have made a huge effort to raise and strengthen our infrastructure. You're witnessing that we've created two new birds of the hospital within four and a half months of last year. In this budget rebalancing, you also have money for a new covid hospital in Novi Sad. You also have money for the new vaccine factory we're going to build. So we're going to be one of the few countries in the world that will have their own vaccine production. That money is provided in this rebalancing facility. Otherwise, not to forget to read you just one number, so you'll see how important it is for us to invest in health care. In 2019, total health investments in the Republic of Serbia were 289 billion dinars. Now in this rebalancing total of 417.7 billion dinars. So, by a billion euros, we have more investment in health care at an annual level over a period of only two years. So, huge investments, huge efforts to secure what the price doesn't have, and that's our fellow citizens' health. At this point, I just wanted to give you information, because I've been looking at the data since this morning, you know, a total of 3,093,628 Serbian citizens received the first vaccine, and of that 1,246,971 and the second vaccine. I don't have to tell you about the fact that number one, or number two in Europe by the first criteria, so by the number of vaccines, the first vaccines that the citizens received, by the number of revaccinated, I think we still hold the first place in Europe. So, the huge effort we have made to preserve our citizens' health, there is no health price, so you never have more investment in health infrastructure and in the health budget in general. Since 1 March of this year, what you probably know is that the salaries in the Republika Srpska Army have been increased, officers have received a 4% salary increase, a 8% salary increase, and professional soldiers of 12%. That's an extra, on an annual level of three billion dinars that we've provided in the salary budget for our soldiers. Otherwise, to remind you, since 1 January of this year, we have an increase in pensions per Swiss form of 5.9%, we have an increase in minimum earnings, also from 6.6%, we have an increase in public sector wages of 5%, so we are one of the few countries that despite the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, despite the huge problems in the economy, we have put the accent on the rise in the standard of living of Serbian citizens. So our salaries are growing, our pensions are growing, and that's one of our postulates. Regardless of the economic crisis, there will always be money for both salaries and pensions, and on the other hand, if we fight together for greater growth in our economy, we open up space for further increases. In short, just a little bit more, so we'll discuss the details during the debate, in this budget rebalancing, you have an additional 5.5 billion dinars for our agriculture. So 5.5 billion dinars. This is what we come up with, which is defined and the law that totals 5% of the budget for agriculture, 2.5 billion allocated for direct payments incentives, so milk premiums, plant production, livestock incentives, and 2.4 billion for rural development incentives for planting, procurement, equipment, tractors, etc. In budget rebalancing, you have 100 million dinars for vouchers, to encourage further travel in our country. You have 300 million dinars to support the Ministry of Culture for the further development of our film industry. You have a 350 million dinar prize fund for the award game "Take the Account and Win", which proved exceptional in terms of raising the awareness of our fellow citizens, and we should fight the gray economy and take a fiscal account at each purchase. Youth and sport, raising their budget by 1.9 billion dinars. I think we've put in every sports contest possible and I think there's about 50 of them this year. So from the Banja Luka International Cycling Race – Belgrade, the Athletic Balkan Senior Championship, to the World Boxing Championship this year and the World Athletics Championship held in the hall next year. So it's all in the sports ministry's budget as well. Adding to that, also the money needed to complete a multi-functional hall in Kostunica. So we invest again in sports, in our young ones, but we also invest in the necessary infrastructure. People's MPs, I'd stop here. So, our country, headed by President Vukic, responds strongly to all the challenges that are due to the pandemic of the Crown of the Virus, we have been fighting, here for over a year on two fronts, for the rescue of our economy and for the health of our fellow citizens. We have made huge successes in the process of obtaining vaccines, the opening of new coves of hospitals, the equipment of existing birds of hospitals, as I said just before, I have presented the data, we are the first in Europe or we share the first place in Europe, so a huge effort. Health has no price, and in this budget rebalancing, you have all the money we need to obtain and the drugs and everything else we need to function. On the other hand, we are fighting for our economy through a third package of aid to our economy, through never larger capital investments, investments in our infrastructure. We are fighting for 6% of the growth by the end of the year, we are fighting for a higher standard of living for our fellow citizens and we are fighting for that when the pandemic of the coronary virus stops, when it stops, when we beat it, we are among the first or first again in Europe at the rate of growth of our economy, which results in an increase in wages and an increase in pensions and something called progress and the progress of an economy. Thank you very much. I'm staying at my disposal for any question.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5628	Thank you, Minister. The word is made by the committee responsible, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5629	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we had opportunities on the Finance Committee to consider budget rebalances, then eight legislative proposals and three agreements that will be on the agenda this week. What we had the opportunity to hear is, on the basis of the presentation of the finance minister, we had the presentation of the Fiscal Council that is always there and gives its estimates when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the budget rebalance and we had the exposure, we somehow introduced this practice to call on the President of the Council for the Co-ordination of the activities and measures for GDP growth, which the government formed in 2014, when Mr. Vukic was Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Miladin Kovacevic. Based on all these statements, in fact of expert opinion, we have seen that when we talk about the proposal for a rebalancing that is thus conceived, which shows the future of Serbia that should deliver results in all segments of the development of our society, those assessments that we are getting from the Fiscal Council are always somewhere on the border of conservative thinking and conflict of different economic schools. This is what we had in this particular assessment to hear that the Fiscal Council, as last time, considered unwarranted support to citizens last year, was in a 100-euro package for every citizen, this year 60 euros, considered unwarranted and that this deficit is much greater than it should be. What is said by Mr Kovacevic is that these projections are precisely showing that there is room for such an increase, because today's economy cannot be worn with certain conservative restrictions that earlier schools had and exactly what gives the possibility of development and greater investment in infrastructure, proposed by the finance minister, actually gives the opportunity to achieve a high growth rate. As evidence of this, the minister presented one table not only of the Central European countries, which is being called upon by the Fiscal Council to watch, but of the entire EU that has shown that the relationship between growth and deficits actually shows the essence of the possibility of each society making progress, especially at the time of the pandemic, especially at a time when we need all the negative consequences to reduce, stop when it comes to the pandemic. What this budget rebalance gives for the first time is actually those high investment rates when it comes to infrastructure, then the part relating to health care. For the first time, you have the construction of hospitals at the time of the pandemic when you're doing this budget rebalance and opening a vaccine factory. So it doesn't exist in the world. At this point, no country in the region is working, or even in EU member states. So, it is Serbia that through this existing macroeconomic framework gives us the opportunity to preserve the health of our citizens of Serbia, invest through a high degree of investment in infrastructure and therefore give support to all citizens without distinction. We heard in the session that certain multipliers are being watched, so now we need our economy based on these multipliers to reduce, to limit. The answer that the minister gave, that people are not multipliers, is precisely the responsibility of politicians to make a difference between what the interest of citizens is, and what are the dry figures that sometimes do not reflect the true state of things and reality in life. This proved in the previous year on the basis of these two packages, and now we are looking at this proposal of the third package of support for citizens and in general support for Serbia's economy to simply produce results. We as a state would not have so positive results, and when it comes to the smallest drop in GDP and last year and the planned high 6% growth rates this year, and we would not have had in debt, stopping at that 60% of GDP when it comes to mastriching, because many countries have gone into this borrowing not over 60%, but over 80%, and these are developed EU countries. So we really had a constructive discussion on the board. What we are pleased is that the Fiscal Council has supported and praised the part relating to investments in environmental protection, in infrastructure, in support of health care, in support of all of these segments of society that have been written about many times so far, and apparently the only criticism relating to this budget deficit has shown that we have answers to such criticism as well. It is important for us that the interests of Serbian citizens are protected and where we have a future where we can offer young people a real job opening and new economic opportunities precisely to think about how we will live in the time to come, in the time of informative...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5630	My colleague, I apologize, if you could...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5631	Here, I'm done. One sentence. At a time when we're preparing for a brand-new fourth industrial revolution. I thank, first of all, the Minister for having had opportunities on the board to really provide us with a lot of information based on which we will have a constructive discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5632	Thank you. The word is made by the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5633	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we discussed the draft law amending the Budget Law and other proposals on granting consent, not to list them now. What's important is that today we can talk about budget rebalancing for several reasons. First of all, what we heard from the minister himself, to continue the fight against the crown of the virus and as much as we can reduce the negative consequences of the epidemic, but at the same time to continue economic growth and allow new investments not only in health but also in capital projects in other areas. Last year, the Serbian government implemented a package of measures to support citizens and businesses of around 704 billion dinars, which was about 13% of our GDP and affected, above all, the reduction of negative consequences and the preservation of the economy. And this year, as you know, a certain package of measures is envisaged. Based on the proposed rebalancing every month, some kind of support will be possible, because we're raising 257 billion dinars. So we're going to have three times a half a minimum profit for entrepreneurs, micro, small, medium and large enterprises. Furthermore, I will list sectoral support for bus carriers that will receive 600 euros per bus in the next six months and sectoral support that is very important for tourism, which will cover city hotels that will receive 350 euros per bed and 150 euros per room. Last year, I would like to stress that 6,200,000 citizens used 100-euro aid. Now 30 euros will start in May and another 30 euros will be paid in November, and another 50 euros for pensioners, while for the unemployed registered at the National Employment Service, another 60 euros are foreseen. When we're done investing in health care, among other things, another Kovid hospital in Novi Sad will be built. A clinical centre will be completed in Novi Sad and Belgrade, as well as in general hospitals and health homes throughout Serbia. Even 1 billion euros are higher for health care this year. In the past year and a few days since we have been affected by the coronary virus, we have shown that we can on one hand preserve the health system and the health of citizens, but also continue with major infrastructure and other projects and development of Serbia, because above all we have shown that we have a domestic relationship with the budget and that we have a government that, of course, carries out a responsible policy to preserve financial stability. Given the time I have as a committee reporter, these are just some of the things I chose to talk about. Of course, everything the minister mentioned about local self-government and important programme 2025 is important. For all I have stated and for all we will hear and from you, Minister, I suggest we support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5634	Thank you. The word is made by the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture, National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5635	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I would like to express my gratitude to all the members of the Committee, the holder of the electoral list and the Government of the Republic of Serbia who understood the need to increase the agrarian budget by 5.6 billion because of the number of applications submitted for subsidies and incentives in agriculture. That's almost 50m euros. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the President of the Republic of Serbia, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia appreciates the food sovereignty this country has. We agriculturalists also understood the health sovereignty that this country has or is gaining at the moment. These two things become intertwined, often because of intensive agriculture, the need for health services is growing. One who has enough food for its citizens has an surplus, it is in political advantage over those who cannot meet the needs of their population. Also, the one who has medical services, who has vaccines, medicines and hospitals, is now gaining health sovereignty, that is, taking precedence over those who do not have it. These unfortunate people of ours who protest for days because the ground is flat and because they're being taken through vaccines, I don't know what's coming under the skin, chips, they don't understand it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, God gives you nuts, but he doesn't break shells. God has given us a fertile land, God has given us a good climate, God has given valuable people, but something depends on us dealing with agriculture and those who need to stimulate the development of agriculture. You don't just raise your population's food security through agriculture. You, through agriculture, raise the construction industry, raise the machinery industry, the chemical industry, because it is expected that farmers invest this money in fields, plantations, stables, stables, cattle. It's not like Gilas to take the money out to the white world islands, the Seattles, the Mauritius, the Maldives, etc., all those white world islands. They will invest it in the field and the state will benefit from it. Just to remind you that farmers are not only recipients of subsidies and public expenditures, peasants and income donors, that is, taking part in budgeting, because everything you've given to agriculture, if you've given farming eight billion for rural development, the moment they get machines, seedlings, etc., they pay you 40% of what you've given. In doing so, they raise the machinery industry, etc., raise the number of jobs, while farmers pay rent for agricultural land. In doing so, peasants pay hundreds of millions of gallons of oil, pay excises like everyone else, like driving cars. As food producers, we think that the growth of GDP, the growth of the Serbian budget, that this 5% will exceed the current 56 billion, the amount of the agrarian budget, so that one day it will be a billion euros, if not before we enter the EU, because in order to be competitive, we must have the same level of incentives that EU countries have. I claim that our peasants would in that case be trampled, under the pretenses, by farmers in the European industry if they were to work under the same conditions they work under. In the end, not to be too long, to conclude, Kissinger said, "Who controls food, controls people." Whoever has food sovereignty, who has health sovereignty, has political power over those who don't have it in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5636	Thank you. The speaker of the Single Serbia Group, Dragan Markovic Palma, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5637	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank Mr. Zukorlic and Mr. Mijatovic for allowing me to speak before them, because Unique Serbia has an online session with European Parliamentarians. I won't be long in my exposure. I want to commend this budget rebalance, given that I have been dealing with the budget of local self-government for 17 years and 17.2% of the total GDP to separate for investment and for something that is very necessary at this point, then we can freely say that this money will go where it is needed. Some money from these investments will return, some will improve the health situation of Serbian citizens, stability of the economy and all that is called today's life, and especially a subsidy for agricultural producers who have been struggling recently to sell their products, where the state and government do not determine the price of grain, but the stock market. The state and government do not determine the price of live cattle, but the buyers and those who buy and resell cattle they take from peasants. And there was always a farmer who was a victim. Let's just see how we can help them shoppers not make a lot of money on agricultural producers, and they have damage, because they can't install in their agricultural product what's called the price difference when they sell out of their barn or out of stables live scales or junados, calves, pigs, tolls to someone, and that someone at five times the price of selling in a slaughterhouse, so when the price falls, live cattle, neither the price of food products nor the processing of meat in butchers falls. This year, I specifically followed everything the Ministry of Finance does and at a time when we were caught by something that no one expected, and the whole world was found, our country was among the first to help the economy and there was no layoff of workers. Mercedes has shut down part of its drive. The VW factory that produces Audi, Golf and Passate has closed down part of its production plant where the Golf vehicles are produced, and no factory is closed in Serbia, although fired, a very small number of workers have been fired, because the state has been giving subsidies and aid to workers, and the employer who has been taking aid cannot fire workers for the next six months. And that's a good buckle. Today we hear that there will be assistance for both the caterers and the bus owners, given that they now have competition, not competition, I will say freely that taxi drivers are registered for the transport of passengers, that they have the right to transport passengers, but it is not like before. Where there is free bus transport, such as in Jagodina, perhaps even in several cities in Serbia, it is much easier. We've asked all employers to pay travel expenses to those who come from village to town to work, not pay bus fares. I led, Minister, a delegation to Egypt. It is a delegation of 100 doctors from 15 hospitals, medical centres and health homes. They're people who've been around the world. Do you know what they said? That Serbia is Switzerland, not only when it comes to health care and what we do. Since landing at the airport, someone can say – that is Africa, Egypt is Africa, but the most powerful force in the Middle East is Egypt, they said they traveled, visited many countries and were proud that where employees could perform health services to patients and that we had four types of vaccine among the first, where some, much more powerful states than Serbia had none. Not only have we helped and opened the borders to vaccinate citizens from the former republics that accounted for Yugoslavia, but we have allowed foreigners, those who have factories in Serbia, and even their family that has no place of residence in Serbia, to come to Serbia to be vaccinated. It's something that people who know and who have had many seminars in the field of health and in order for man to know how he lives, he needs to compare himself with his neighbor, with some force, etc. Serbia is recognised in every sense of the word. I'm not going to say we're a military force, but we're equipped for respect when it comes to both military tools and police tools, and not only that, but the wages have been increased, morals are higher now for military employees and police officers. They used to have one pair of shoes, one boot, and one suit, so they had to wait for that suit to dry to go to work. Today it's very different. It opens and builds something that is not being built in other countries. I can say, I've always compared myself, when I've done something, with the strongest, the biggest, not that I can overcome them, but to watch what they do, that we've overcome Germany, that we've overcome the Great Britain, which is the right hand of America, and, based on the number of inhabitants, when we compare to America, you know what we are for them, like they value the state, or the city of Las Vegas, so we're for the Americans. They have one 10% of the population who has no electricity, who has nothing to eat, who has no shoes, go barefoot, and we are a country that has made so much progress, that someone who has left Serbia and has not returned for 10 years, when he returns to Serbia, he calls the street nothing he can recognise, not only when it comes to Belgrade, but also other cities in Serbia. There used to be a ministry of even development, but now there is no ministry, but now the government and the state are working on a proposal from the president of the state that all cities in Serbia have a steady development and are built on roads, through factories. Imagine in some small municipalities like Lebane, Kurzumli to make factories. Sometimes small municipalities were interesting to the government only in the election campaign, and when the elections are over they say it's a small electoral body, none of the promises, it's made only in large cities and where high officials live. In particular, it used to be Belgrade, Novi Sad, even Kragujevac is abandoned, and today it's very different. When we look at other areas in our country and sport and culture and factories and education and what our schools look like, no more, watch out, these Polish toilets, as they used to say, so they're from the former government boasting, when they create a single-city mustard, to open a mustard, cut the tape. You know, it was a lot of fun in the 21st century, that it was happening and that someone was proud of it. I can freely say that JS supports this power for the reason it has a result. We may disagree on one or two things, but that's where we all have to be unique and all of us to breathe with the same lungs. You see, we've opened 18 chapters, and they're not closed. They didn't close those chapters because we do bad work or we have a GDP drop or we don't have a rating. You said we had a bank rating or a credit card. You know, when you have a bonus you can do whatever you want, you have a variant B, and that's banks, to move until you get the money. That's what other countries don't have and can't boast about it. You know I don't have tongue hair. When I think something's wrong, I say it. So, this government and this state, I have to mention my coalition partner, the SPS, the JS, whatever we don't have from JS Minister and high-ranking official, but we help and we work as if we have three or four ministers. To get back to Egypt, I went there as a man who got a confession - the most popular stranger in Hurgada. I had several meetings and was present for dinner with the richest Egyptian in the Red Sea region, the first night, when Ramadan was and I was proud to see those customs and to be invited by someone who, I might say freely, was an economic power and I asked him to come to us Christmas or Easter and be my guest, to see how Christmas and Easter were celebrated in Serbia. Believe it or not, here's how I feel. One day, we're hosting a big businessman who's already buying grain from Serbia. We didn't eat or drink with him, he drove us on his yacht, was it Ziko? So we respected it. I had calories, I could, but he was impressed, I even asked him, even though I don't smoke, is it not a sin to burn one, he said he didn't. I have a very positive impression from Egypt, from a country where the majority of the population is Muslim. The Copti, who are Orthodox, and we have met them, have the same rights as all other minorities have the right in Serbia. We respect their holidays, they respect ours and work together in the interests of Serbia. For example, Mr Zukorlic has the real name of his party "Justice and Reconciliation". One was him and me in 2000, but today was the time for us to get back together, work, not constantly some militant messages and attack on Serbia from some former politicians, so now Slovenia has started looking for something, which doesn't stand anywhere, in any agreement. It's all the jealousy and economic power of our country. And that exercise that she was in the Beans meadows the other day is also a thorn in someone's eye. You know what, having a vision and not listening to you impose sanctions on Russia, not listening to you not co-operate with China, as it was a warrant for Serbia... Brussels was angry that we went to America to talk to Donald Trump, etc. What's going on now? Now both Austria and Germany are buying Russian vaccines, forgetting about economic sanctions. Serbia, not only works well, but has a good vision. I can tell you that what the international community is contesting Serbia is guilty of is some opposition parties that are billionaires, and that I can say freely, the billionaire party Dragan Gilas who gave himself freedom and his workers, Marinika Tepic, is a worker in the company of billionaire Dragan Dilas, to attack me, to say that I, I don't know, seduced minors. Here's what this protected witness of theirs, who, on the same day, was at the celebration of Gilas's two-year-old billion-party party and after the celebration, in the same sweater, is a scrawny voice and a hidden face to attack me and my city of Jagodina. They say he's afraid of Palma. Yeah, he's afraid of Palma, so he hid his face, and he's not afraid to get into RTS, and there's a picture here, too, when they came in with a chain saw. Then don't be afraid. Why did they hide it? That we don't know his name. Otherwise, he is called, this scrawny protected witness, Branislav Radosavljevic, who was first in the party of Vuk Jeremic, and went to a billionaire party at Gilas, and this Gilas did not buy him two sweaters, at least to replace a man, but to hold conferences in the same sweaters, etc. It's got a quality watch. I don't want to talk about Gilas and Marinika Tepic in this period of time. I went to the D.A.'s office myself and signed up and now Marinika says, "Why didn't the prosecution file a criminal charges against Palma?" You have to prove what you're saying, what those faces are, where they happened, and then pick up a report against a person who did such a thing or a lie. I call on the authorities to work under the law and in prison, if it happens to prove what lies to the protected witness and the worker of the billionaire party, Dragan Gilas, to go to jail either me or her. I call on Djilas, the worker of his Marinika Tepic and this protected witness, the party's official, Branislav Radosavljevic, to go to the polygraph. Let them say everything I'm being attacked by, the polygraph puts these questions together, and then I go after them, and if one of us doesn't go to the polygraph, sign to go straight to jail. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the biggest lies that could ever come out of some people's mouths. Since when did all this start? Ever since I told Gilas, tell me if you have money or not. They say MPs talk about Gilas all the time. Well, they're looking for an answer. Say, "I do or I don't." I have, I've earned it, and so, I've paid the profit tax or I haven't. If you didn't, explain why you didn't. I don't understand why he's hiding? After that, he sent his billionaire party worker Marinika Tepic to Jagodin, where she attacked and said – every woman who works in Jagodina, I give her a phone, if she gets a job, if she doesn't hang out well, she doesn't get a job. This morning there were 320 women, now I was told – 400 women volunteered to sue Marinika Tepic. She's gonna sue to prove who that woman is, who that mother, who that girl had such a way of communicating with me. I don't want to talk at all about the details of how workers are employed and to justify myself, I'm asking the D.A. to do his job. If the D.A. had done its job, Gilas would have been in jail a long time ago. But what the international community will tell us. What's he gonna tell us? Here, here, you look at his books, if everything's okay, then nothing. I had control a few years ago from Krushevac, the IRS. They've been working for a month. I asked them to give me some paper, they say - it's all clear. I say - give me the paper that's clean. I control myself, which I've been a businessman for 40 years, where my traffic is less than 85% since 12 years ago, and Gilasu has increased a thousand times a month and has increased traffic to seconds, monopoly, etc. If you don't accept to sign the contract, then you have a problem, as media owner, etc. Visiting several televisions, since I'm an interesting conversationalist, I'm raising the ratings for a few shels, I said – now that Gilas is in power, he'd make a lot of money on my hosting, because his seconds were dependent on guests. When they're visiting successful guests, then a second goes times 10. Fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, to know that there is nothing that is true in this. They have to prove it. Of course they can't find those faces they were talking about. They say parties. I'm a man who can't live without pain. My son played harmonica and betrayed two CDs. Wicca, my spokeswoman and my chief of staff are wearing a little speaker where we listen to music over YouTube for at least two or three hours a day. It's my valve. I don't drink alcohol and I love music. If I love music, it doesn't have to mean that there's nothing going on at those gatherings. I don't know what's going on. They say it was Ivica Dacic and Alexander Antic. So what if they were? There's never been less than 30 or 40 people, and when? When we open factories, when we talk to foreign investors, when something positive happens for the city, etc. Now they're attacking Jagodina, ladies, etc. They all have to prove it. To get back on this subject, I couldn't avoid... (President: You must bring an end, your time is up.) I'd like you to turn me down from the MP's time, one more minute. A unique Serbia will vote for this draft budget rebalance and let me tell you that what was in my mind you put into rebalancing. Not in my mind that I'm very smart, but I have contact with citizens, with businessmen, etc. Never, Minister, has it happened that someone who has 300 workers or 150 says "it's good". It's happening now. When compared to where they are exported to EU countries, they talk to their colleagues, they say, "Serbia is the best place to invest" and that is why we will have a large inflow of Serbs in the diaspora, and those with a lot of money will come to Serbia. Don't be a gaster in the EU. Come to your country where you were born, where you work and there are the best conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5638	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5639	The President-in-Office, respected ministers with an associate, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the budget rebalancing is actually something that is completely common for normal functioning of the state, even in normal circumstances, and when it happens in circumstances that are not so normal, it is of particular importance and something that is quite logical and acceptable and that should be welcomed and supported. What I felt was that sometimes in this hall in the National Assembly it was mostly common to rebalance the budget with the aim of covering the salaries of the state administration or how to pay for pensions, in other words, how to survive, how to ensure the minimum functioning of the payment system. That's what, thank God, today isn't. This is in fact an indication that budget rebalances are being made, i.e. to look for funds to cover the basic costs. But when there's a change in the Budget Law over the year with such arguments, with such offers, it's for joy, it's something else. So we're not changing the Budget Law, so that we can hold out until December so that the state administration and pensioners survive, but we actually have a progressive change of the Budget Law. So, what, true, was not a practice of earlier years in the past government, and in particular it was not expected in times of crisis caused by a covid pandemic which, in addition to the threat of health, is a key target of the economy. So this is the key impression from which I begin this discussion today, which will certainly be in support of the proposed Budget Law from the position of the People's MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, or our parliamentary group. True, what from the human, human aspect of getting into the eyes is that the overwhelming priority is actually to the health care sector, to protect citizens, to the successful fight against mosquitoes, whether with regard to the provision of medicines and other means of immunisation, but also huge resources, extremely large funds for investment in the health sector. It's something that's obvious, it's something that's very encouraging. True, this is not new, so it's not about the funds that are yet to be obtained, or that this new page is just opening up, but it's about something that's been continuing what we've had to look at over the past months in this difficult, but, thank God, a very successful fight against the covids, that is, against the pandemic and everything that directly or indirectly causes the pandemic. So it's something that makes me very happy and certainly needs to be supported. You need to keep going that way. Another package, which also confirms that this is not about budget rebalancing and amending the Budget Law with the aim of patching up some holes, gaps and cracks, but rather about progressive change, are actually serious capital investments. It's something that the Justice and Reconciliation Party has been up to for years, something that we've been looking at for years on a wider agenda of state and parts of it, and of course something that I'm particularly happy about, because we finally have a breakthrough in the country's space, so according to Sandzak, which is decades ago, and even for a whole century has been neglected for various reasons. So, we definitely have that this composition of the government, in its vision of the country's complete development, first of all with the belief that there is no serious development until the country opens up on all sides, and until the country is networked with a quality road network and this is really a step that for every praise, a step of the country's networking through highway corridors, a very brave step, a very serious step, a step that cannot be played, cannot happen. It's not a daily political thing, it's not a matter of a well-prepared PR or a press conference or a good speech, or a well-written speech, it's something that's extremely expensive. It's something that needs to be spent for years, but definitely something that, like seven, eight or ten years ago, seemed impossible. We just dreamed of the highway, I have to tell you, and no matter what we hoped would happen, but somehow it seemed utopian, maybe, but very difficult. However, now that we are traveling from the direction of Novi Pazar and immediately in the vicinity of Cačka, we feel a relief already, a relief for those of us who regularly travel on the route of Novi Pazar – Belgrade, while at the same time the Moravski Corridor, at the same time successfully breaking through and very difficult shares from Čačka towards Požega, and then the signing of the contract and the already established deadlines for the follow-up of the very difficult section that will go from Požega to Ivanjica, and then further towards Dugi Poljana, Pester, and then to the Boltars finally towards the border with Montenegro. So these are all the things that give us optimism. After all, these are the things that actually expect us to do exactly this kind of political discourse. On these agreements we actually have this kind of participation in our policy, because we have been able to weigh whether to look for some serious functions in the government, which has been a practice of our representatives in the Sandzak area before, or to give priority to capital investments that will finally become, in full terms, words and economic and infrastructure components of this country, which will be able to simply function, breathe and traffic and economic and communication. We gave priority to agreements, insisting on capital investments, highways were a key project, and that is what makes us very happy. We expect it to be updated and continued with the pipeline project from Kopalnik to Novi Pazar, to continue, according to the agreement, with the projecting and realisation of the connection and other cities from Novi Pazar towards Tutin, Sjenica, then Prepolje, Nova Varoš and Prboj. It is something that is waiting for us and something that we want to update and strengthen activities related to the realization of this project. We are also expected to build a clinical hospital centre in Novi Pazar, or they can show upbuilding because serious investments have already occurred in the health sector and capital projects in Novi Pazar. Upgrade is needed in order to access organizational preparations and changes in due time. Meanwhile, it is also necessary to work to bring strategies into line, given that some earlier strategies envisioned by the development of the medical sector in the area did not foresee the existence of a clinical hospital centre. It is now necessary to bring these strategies into line, as well as certain legislative regulations, and then go to the realization of this extremely important regional project, which is not proposed or requested in any way by any political, party or any other local reason, but exclusively as a need for space, as a geographical need, given that the schedule of clinical hospital centres in the country is, among other things, relevant for the availability or most important because of the availability of citizens. Therefore, if you have four clinical centres that are geographically positioned in one third of the country and in the north, or northeast, it is Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, you actually have two thirds of the countries geographically uncovered. Therefore, now this highway network from Užic to Kragujevac will be able to reach you in almost an hour or a little more time. From the Kings to the Kragujevac in less than an hour. However, even when we get the highway and when we get all infrastructure projects from Novi Pazar to the nearest clinical hospital center, it's to Kragujevac, you can't make it two hours ago, and that's pretty long when it comes to certain medical needs. So the need to establish, form a clinical hospital center in Novi Pazar is beyond need, the real need for space. If we add that to that area that it is gravitating both north of Montenegro and certain areas outside Serbia when it comes to BiH, it is particularly important. That's why I'm very happy and I'm glad not only that we have reached an agreement on this, but I'm glad that the state has the capacity to deal with the already-planned, planned, capital projects, capital investments, major projects, which actually shows that we didn't have unrealistic plans, but that it will be very realistic to realise this project. We are expected to build or adapt, we will see, as we find a solution, and a scientific and technological park that is also foreseen in Novi Pazar. If it's built again, it'll be a bigger investment. There is a possibility that both part or part of abandoned objects or objects that are currently out of use, belonging to the army of the Republic of Serbia, which is located in Novi Pazar, which was an experience, have already been successful in some other parts of the country where military facilities for the Scientific Technology Park are adapted, i.e. scientific and technological parks. We think it's possible in the New Market, too. This would be significantly cheaper and could be achieved much earlier in technical and construction, but in any case, whether in one way or another it is very important to have access to organisational steps as soon as possible, but also to construction ventures, in order to implement this project. The question of the railway is already such a famous issue, so Novi Pazar is the only city of over 120,000 people who do not have a railway line. It's something that's definitely not mature, but it's ignored the time to realize it and not just by buckle to Raska, which is the shortest relationship of about 20 kilometers. It is the easiest part of this project, but we have reached an agreement to move the railway further west, because it is the space that deserves it and that will be very useful, so that in fact this route of the railway from Raška to Novi Pazar would continue in the direction between Tutina and Sjenica towards Novi Varosha and Priboj, i.e. Bistrica, where it would actually connect this trail of railways to the railway that goes to Belgrade – Bar and passes through Bistrica, i.e. further to Prepolje. So this is another strategic step for this area where it would definitely take the highway corridor north - south, i.e. Corridor 11 that would cross the cave, i.e. through Sandzak, north - south towards Montenegro, which will also connect with Belgrade, northern and other cities in Serbia, but also south with the cities of Montenegro, i.e. Podgorica, further towards the sea. Also, nothing less for us in Sandzak is an important project to connect Novi Pazar with Sarajevo, the most realistic already foreseen route towards Sarajevo, or Bosnia and Herzegovina, in fact what Sandzak has been economically neglected, infrastructureised all these past decades. With this step, by opening Sandzak and towards the south, and towards the east highways, and towards Belgrade, and towards Podgorica, and towards Sarajevo, then by rail, then by gas pipeline, by clinical hospital center, by scientific technology park, we come if God gives one to say a positive zero, or to where we've never been. That's what actually represents a historic step towards normalising relations in Sandzak for me. So, as you know, in the past two, three decades, Sandzak has been treated in different ways, and I'm sorry that it's most often treated conflictably, on either side and that we've had mostly from using this idea to all the other ideas that have come up they're somehow forced, on the one hand, and on the other hand experienced as some kind of anti-state project, some kind of attack. We have no reason to keep this space in the atmosphere of conflict, we really do not have, and the best way to relax relationships, the best way to normalize relationships is to put in the first place what the Bosniaks and Serbs need to do in that space. So, to all citizens, because when you build a road, when you build a highway, when you invest in the health sector, when you invest in schools, when you invest in all these projects that I've listed not to mention them again, when you do, you relax all these relationships, because there's a hole in the road that breaks the wheel of a car, it doesn't know whether a Serbian car or a Bosniak car is going to fall into it. She doesn't make that difference, she breaks every car. So that's how we need to change the approach to observing that space that's been viewed as neural for years. Normalisation of relations through economic, infrastructure projects, of course, does not mean that it is necessary to minimise or ignore religious needs, national ethnic needs, cultural needs, they are also all very important, but for them it should make a normal atmosphere, that everyone develops their own, but with the support of others, but not at the expense of others. So, this is to say that the desired state, the desired Serbia, is the desired atmosphere pursued by the Justice and Reconciliation Party, and in spite of all the factors that are very often burdening us, which, unfortunately and often, are the fruit of irresponsible statements, irresponsible projects, irresponsible programmes of individual politicians who handle incriminating matter irresponsiblely in a way that simply draws attention to themselves, receive some daily political applause or some voice from members of their community. And what's the price? The price is something that can't be treated so quickly. So, causing hate is like causing a fire. It's like being a pyromaniac. It's very little you need to start a fire. One match class, or one trigger movement, and you have a fire. And you know how much energy, strength and effort it takes to put out the fire. When the fire goes out, do you know how long it takes to repair the damage? So, we should build such a relationship of responsibility according to words, because the word is just like that spark first that is small, which is very easy to produce and which is enough just to be spoken by someone who is in position, to hold a microphone and someone who is irresponsible. So irresponsibility is her fuel. In fact, with these two messages, the advantage of projects that are common, infrastructure, economy, employment, investment, above all, and after all investment, which will allow new jobs, and on the other hand the care in communication, the care in policy, the care in projects, the care in the demands. To choose words, good and smart people choose words. They say the chosen words in a smart way. I don't choose, I don't select, I don't use harsh, insulting words to speak bad, I don't say stupid. That's what you should know. So, with two messages like that, we go into all this with honor. We are looking for conversators, we are looking for allies, thank God we have them, and thank God the state has the energy to make this offer, as is this one today about amending the Budget Law, which we will support, continue to solve all that is waiting for us, which is holding us back, but I believe that when there is will, good intentions, co-operation correct, human and professional, the results are inevitably coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5640	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5641	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing budget rebalancing today. Right away, he's expected, he's being extorted, and for us he's not a surprise. We were not able to know in November how the situation was going around the pandemic Kovid 19, and thus we were prepared for it. We had two rebalancings in the previous year. The SDPS parliamentary group has supported both rebalances, and we will also support this rebalancing. Why? Experience has shown that the first two rebalancings in April, the one in September, produced very good results. This is reflected in the economic indicators we currently have in April. We are also recognised by relevant international organisations. So we did something that few countries did, and so we avoided the disaster that could have happened in our economic events, or what could have happened around the finances. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I must stress that Serbia has stable and sustainable finances, stressing once more stable and sustainable finances. When I talked about the 2021 budget, I said a few characteristics, I'll repeat them, that the budget is real, stable, that it represents continuity, that it has an express development component and it has maintenance and a slight increase in standards. I must say that all the characteristics I said in November are now in April. Let's see if the budget is real. Yes, it is. It is made by a conservative method and thus all that is envisaged and accomplished. Although we predicted then a deficit that was 180 billion and something billion, in February we had a surplus of 7.5 billion, which is really something that is good, which shows that Serbia's economy is alive, tough, that it works and that we have results. Furthermore, I have said about the stability of the budget and the sustainability of the budget, and I will keep stressing that, because it is a great result. Third, I'm going to talk about the development of the component a little bit and later, and also about maintaining a slight increase in standards. The moment we started discussing pandemics, we didn't know what disease it was, what was waiting for us. I have to admit today we know a lot more, but we don't know everything, we don't know when it's gonna end, we have to be careful that this pandemic can take a lot longer than we think it is right now. But what is the strategic goal of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is to fight for Serbia's citizens' health and to preserve the economy and its development at this time. I stress, not only to preserve the economy, but to develop. That's the step that shows this budget and this rebalancing and I have to say that we've achieved very good results. I'm not going to say any other big words, but I'm going to say very good results. I'll start with that first pillar-- health care. What did we do? You know, when this pandemic that just destroys the whole world and our Serbia started, and we need to know that Serbia is not too economically strong, it's not a rich country, but it's given the right answers to this pandemic that's happening to us. First, vaccination. You know, we have a vaccine, four vaccines we can choose, rare are countries that can do it. We've vaccinated more than three million. I don't think that's enough yet. We should move on. We have a re-exploited 1.2 million. I urge the citizens of Serbia to be vaccinated. I personally did it, it's been two months since the poor, I feel safe. In order to defeat the pandemic, the state cannot do everything, the state can take over most of the responsibility, and it has taken over in this financial part, it has taken over to provide hospitals, to provide medication, to provide respirators, but the state can't do everything, the citizens have to take over their share of responsibility, and that part of the responsibility is taken over by the citizens just by being vaccinated. I urge everyone to be vaccinated. I've come from a personal example, I've had no consequences, and I'm asking the citizens to do so. It's not just a matter of vaccination. I stress, vaccines in our country are free of charge. They're not free in the world. Citizens in the world pay for both the first and second vaccines and they're still happy when they can get it. We offer free and we have enough, even as the finance minister pointed out, we have enough and then if the blackest scenario happens. Secondly, we have hospitals and respirators, which each sufferer has a bed and, if necessary, a respirator. Next, it's all free, you don't pay for hospital days, you don't pay for testing. We built two new Kovid hospitals in Belgrade and Kruševec. I'm happy, as someone who comes from Novi Sad, the fact that a new bird hospital is being built in Novi Sad. That's very important. That hospital will achieve its purpose, and when this pandemic stops, when we beat it, that hospital will be a city hospital, because Novi Sad is currently missing a kind of secondary level of protection, and that's the covid of that kind of hospital. Secondly, our policy we have is, and regional approach, we and our neighbours from Northern Macedonia, BiH, Montenegro offer vaccination in our country. You know, we're not a desert island so we can be protected, we have to have our neighbors who are next door to us. As far as health care is concerned, and what's very important is to point out that we're starting to produce vaccines, too. Our Torak Institute, which was world-renowned in the production of vaccines, which has now reactivated because of our carelessness, and will again be the institute that was before. The state of Serbia will be the country itself to produce vaccines against this Kovid 19th, unfortunately, I fear that as we behave in this world, on this globe, that the pandemic will not stop, that it will appear, and therefore should be prepared in advance. So in any case, the state of Serbia has taken great responsibility and thus fulfilled everything that is expected of the state. Of course, the second pillar of this budget and the government of Serbia's strategy are stable and sustainable finances. You know, when it came to GDP growth in 2021, the scale that was raised up 6% high for me was very large. I must admit that I had one great precaution, but the data we have now in April shows that and because of this third package of measures we will have a 6% GDP growth. That's not just what we think in our country, that's what relevant international organisations think that this growth is definitely going to be more than five, and that fact itself says that we hit it well. If we're talking about the economic situation, I can say that we have low unemployment, a single-digit, that we have a stable exchange rate, that we have a low inflation of 1.35, that's far below what the National Bank is planning, that our salaries and pensions are regular, that we have a slight increase and a third, and what the minister said, is that we have a high credit rating. Credit ratings are not obtained because some country looks nice or interesting, but what it is and how healthy its economy is, or how healthy its finances are. What is very important, what has been promised in the 2021 budget is fulfilled. I mean a 5.9 pension growth on a minimum wage of 6.6 and a 5% salary. The biggest result, which I welcome this time, is increased public investment. They're 7.2% of GDP. I've been a member of parliament for a long time, and I've been following all the budgets since 2013, right here. I remember a time when it was 2%.3%. I remember the time I spoke in this room that I was too happy that 130 billion were allocated from the budget for public investment. It's now 430 billion. It's a very big step. I must welcome this step, for a simple reason, because strengthening public investment in times of crisis is a pledge to further develop our country, a pledge for something that will be better and better quality. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, the minister stressed that we have an aggressive approach in this part. I might have chosen a term of very active approach or a proactive approach and I welcome it. I'm not going to talk, there was a speech here about what's going on within these public investments, I mean highways, a fast track, etc. But what I've been talking about here all the time, and what I'm going to talk about all the time while I'm a MP, is the fact that more resources are being allocated to protect the environment. You know, the state of Serbia signed the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals. We also have the "Serbia 2025" Agenda. These two agendas are in sync with each other and I'm glad they come true. Each will give its results. I would like to, I keep stressing it, that in both the rebalancing and the budget we have and indicated what funds have just been allocated for the realisation of these agendas. I hope the Ministry of Finance will do this to me, and the focus of our Parliament's groups will discuss it very carefully, and we will keep emphasising. I expect you to do so, so I can commend you. You know, 130m euros in environmental protection, I'll say, is a dramatic increase. Why? Well, we only allocate 100m euros for sewers and regional dumps and 30m for water purifiers. When we talked about climate change, when I talked about energy laws, I just stressed that we need the biggest investment here. I see now the concrete funds provided in the budget for these investments and that's what's very important. You know, there's no free lunch in the economy. The fact is that these are significant funds, that the state is devoting significant funds and we must tell the citizens of Serbia that the state of Serbia is also in debt. But I think the economic consolidation we've had has strengthened our economy, our finances, so that we can be in debt. On the Finance Committee, we had a very contentious debate, at one point and very controversial. I'm in favour of the position that our economy, our country should be in debt to 60% of GDP. These are the Mastricht rules, and I have represented that position on the Finance Committee and I am representing it now. So, 60%, unless something dramatic happens. That's that black line we have to respect. In his opening statement, the finance minister emphasized that and held him by his word. We'll talk later, and we'll see, I believe he'll respect it. In this field debate, which is democratic to me, on the Finance Committee, everyone said that, even members of the Fiscal Council, packages first, second and third justified their adoption and showed their positive effects. Of course, when we talk about borrowing, we have to say something else. This government, the president of the state, we coalition partners of the Serbian Progressive Party are unique in the view that protecting the lives of Serbian citizens and preserving and maintaining the economy have no price in money. Our consolidated economy, economy and finance can withstand everything that's going on. Of course, it also depends on the citizens of Serbia, precisely their behaviour, in the sense that we are inoculating ourselves, that we respect the rules of the profession, and that is what is important. Of this third package, which is 2.2 billion, 660m euros are given to the economy, and 500m are allocated to the citizens. You know, we saved small, micro and medium-sized enterprises. We've also saved large businesses. The fact that individuals get three minimum salaries, that there's no layoffs of more than 10%, that's why we have single-digit unemployment. Those areas that fell the most, hotels, catering, bus carriers, they went anywhere less than 50%, they get the means to survive. This is a time that must be respected. I look forward to it, I welcome it, that they have remembered independent artists, because without art, there is no better life, and just because they get two minimum salaries, or 500 euros, is help at these times that we are in. What I like to compare, for me it's indirect proof that the economy is standing, and I'm always stressing, the donations of pension-inhabited insurance are being reduced. You know, it was supposed to be 153.6 billion, and now it's 141.8. It's the best indication for me that high-level employment, that employees are paying the pension fund and that our pension fund is stable. There was talk here that far more funds were allocated for agriculture 5.6 billion, for tourism, then to allocate 100 million for vouchers. You know, we'll be able, like last year, if anything, to visit our country and get to know it better, to behave better when we get to know our country. I stress, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of the budget's rebalancing and all accompanying laws. You'll have our support, if you continue this path that's drawn, which gives you results. I live in the belief that we won't have another rebalancing this year. This will mean that we have put the pandemic under control and that we can live normally and politely. That is why I stress that the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5642	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5643	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, respected ministers with an associate, respected MPs, last year we preserved the growth of the economy and gave a lot of help to our citizens. Now with this budget rebalance, we're going to try to keep this trend going. The budget rebalancing for 2021 total was planned in revenues of 1.356.2 billion dinars, which is 19.9 billion dinars higher than the amount of revenue planned for the initial budget this year. The estimated expenditures amounted to 1.768.4 billion, which is 254 billion more than the planned amount, which was in the initial budget. Our total deficit is now on the rebalance of 412 billion dinars. When planning the budget for this year 2021, we said our revenues were conservatively planned. And despite such conservative planning, we had a growth in income in the first quarter of this year. Now we can say that planning or rebalancing are conservatively planned our incomes. As for the expenditure, they've grown significantly now. This is due to the third package of measures to support the economy and citizens, due to an increase in capital investment in traffic infrastructure and in health infrastructure. In our country, it carries the burden of this crisis that caused the pandemic of the coronary virus. No country in the area has encouraged or given as much incentive to its economy as ours. We can look at the surrounding countries, we can look at countries all over Europe, none of these countries have given as much help as we have. Here we can say that our country is not only an economy but also a full help to the citizens. Also, if we look at the environment and Europe, no country has given so much help to its citizens. Wherever they live in our country, whether they live in the north or in the south of the country, if we look at the economy, whether they're micro, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs or large enterprises, so the whole economy gets help and the population of our country. For this reason, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians or MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will support budget rebalancing and will vote in favour of this rebalancing. Although the state will bear all the burden of this crisis and will, as I said, provide full assistance to the economy and citizens, an growth of 6% of GDP is expected. Public debt won't be more than 60% of our GDP. As Mr. Minister has said, in this rebalancing, we see a lot of and great investment in capital investments. Here we need to isolate or we know that every investment in infrastructure promotes growth in economy or economy, employs the entire economy, maintains jobs and even creates new jobs. Investment in state-level capital investments will be, as we heard, 7.2% of GDP, which is in the dinars of 430 billion dinars to be invested in infrastructure. Currently, as we have heard, four highways are being built in our country, and this rebalancing provides for the construction of four more highways, such as the Belgrade-Zrenjanin section, then the highway section from Surcin to New Belgrade, the Fruskogorski Corridor, a bypass around Novi Sad, will be built around Gornji Milanovac. We should not ignore a major project here, which is the beginning of building a metro in Belgrade. The MPs of the Duke Hungarian Union highly appreciate that the investments, the capital investments they started, will not stop, but there will be new investments. It is important to us that the Hungarian-Serbian railway project goes further as a project of modernisation and reconstruction of the Subotica-Segedin railway line, the construction of a new fast traffic station between Novi Sad and Ruma, then the project of reconstruction and construction of the border crossing at Horgos continues, the project on Tisa River near Novi Beceje to improve the conditions for ship transfer at the dam. The budget's rebalance overlooked the investment of about five billion dinars in the so-called. health infrastructure. We heard that the construction of two covid hospitals was completed last year, and the rebalancing process envisioned money for the construction of a new covid hospital in Novi Sad, the Clinical Centre in Belgrade is scheduled to be completed and the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre in Novi Sad begins. In addition to these investments, money is foreseen to equip the House of Health in Borca and a lot of money is foreseen for the completion of the reconstruction of general hospitals throughout our country. Let's not forget that the vaccine factory will be built, if we've heard correctly, it'll be a Russian vaccine, and it might be Chinese, we'll find out later. In addition to investing in health infrastructure, additional resources for the health care of citizens are provided. And what does that mean? Here you're thinking of buying equipment in hospitals, buying drugs, buying vaccines, which will be more effective for further combating the pandemic caused by the coronary virus. For these purposes, about 20 billion dinars are foreseen. Now I would like to say a few words about state aid to the economy that gives our businesses, as I said, whether they are micro, small or medium-sized enterprises, as well as large enterprises. The first 50% minimum earnings were paid for 1,140,000 employees, and the other two payments will be in May and June. As we heard, tourist guides, tourists receive assistance of two minimum earnings, which is about 30,000 or 31,000 dinars. Those minimum wage payments will be in July and August. The assistance will also be provided by the catering staff, as much as the two minimum earnings, and will be awarded to each employee for whom the economic operator paid the earnings for December 2020 and submitted, of course, a corresponding tax application. As we have heard from Mr. Minister, the competition for assistance for transporters has been completed, which will be assisted by carriers over the next six months, worth 600 euros per bus. We heard that domestic hotels also receive 150 euros in room assistance and 350 euros per bed. The news is that those citizens who perform their own artistic activity or other cultural activities are given grants, two minimum earnings, totaling 230 million dinars. The word is more than 3,000 independent artists. These minimum wage payments are scheduled in July and August of the month. The state also meant unemployed persons. And they'll get help from the state. Aid of 60 euros per dinar value and will be paid to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia on the National Employment Service's record. The national service will draw up a copy of the official records which may receive this assistance and deliver to a specific bank which will pay this aid. The payment of this aid begins from June 1st. It should be pointed out that our fellow citizens living in KIM territory are also being helped by the state. Children and all full-time citizens of 100 euros in dinar equivalent, or 200 euros in dinar equivalents, are given to those who are unemployed. That assistance will be paid in May of the month. The same aid of 30 plus 30 euros received by all full-time citizens of Serbia. The first 30 euros will begin payment in May, and the application begins on April 28th and payment of the second war or other 30 euros will be in November. We should not forget our pensioners who will receive plus 50 euros and can expect it in September of the month. As Mr. Minister has shown a chart or a table that every month there will be some payment in the form of state aid, whether businesses, whether citizens, but every month will be. We must point out that in this rebalancing of agriculture, it gets another 5.5 billion dinars. We support every penny given to agriculture. Of these 5.5 billion dinars, 4.9 billion will be directed to the Agency for Agricultural Payments in the name of the subsidy to agricultural producers. With these additional funds as we have heard, the Ministry of Agriculture will receive 5% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We think it is very important, and we SVM MPs support this trend, as we support that the Ministry of Environmental Protection is getting an additional 4 billion dinars. This best proves that environmental and environmental protection is one of the priorities of our country. From these additional pairs of municipalities and cities can renovate their wild dumps on their territories. Of course, capital projects, such as wastewater purification, can be upgraded or built from these pairs, can be built into more than 20 local self-governments of Serbia. We positively estimate that the Youth and Sports Ministry gets an additional 1.9 billion dinars. From these funds, 660 million dinars will be designed to organise major international competitions in our country, such as the European Women's volleyball championship, the World Boxing Championship, the men's qualified basketball tournament, and as Mr. Minister said, not this year, but the next year's World Athletics Championship in the Hall. Finally, the SVM MPs will support the rebalancing and vote on the day of voting on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5644	I thank my colleague. Before we move on to the next authorized speaker, one announcement about today's work. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the president of the SPS parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5645	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry. During the 2021 budget debate, the SPS parliamentary group made it clear that we believe that Serbia enters a strong and economically stable economy in 2021 with a stable footing, with one full conviction, in fact with an economic growth rate, the highest economic growth rate in Europe, i.e. falling in Europe and with full confidence that we will be able to realise that projected GDP rate of 6%. The period facing not only Serbia, but the whole world, a period of temptation, challenges, the biggest health challenge, unfortunately facing both Serbia and the world, impose, unfortunately, three key issues in Serbia today, and this has already been discussed today during the opening presentation by colleagues. So one of the key questions is whether there were layoffs for workers in Serbia? Were there factory closures in Serbia? Did foreign investors give up investing in Serbia? There were no layoffs, and I want to make sure who knows which time I'm reminding you, compared to 2012 when the unemployment rate was 25.9%, today it's on record below 9%. As for the factory, of course there was no factory closure. As for foreign direct investment in the past year, foreign direct investment was three billion euros. What is extremely important is to highlight the total amount of foreign direct investment that arrives in the Balkans 60% of foreign direct investment is just directed towards Serbia. It is not by chance that the Financial Times has put Serbia back in its ranks for several years, not only in the region, but also as the most attractive country for foreign investors. One of the last examples, I hope not the last but one of the newest examples I want to make, is the arrival of Japan's Niedek company in Novi Sad. So, the Japanese company that's going to hire me in the first place, correct me Ministers if I'm wrong, somewhere around 470 people. A Japanese company that plans to invest 1.5 billion euros this year, and to our great joy and satisfaction, half of it will invest in Serbia. Japanese, this seems to me to be the second Japanese company to come to Serbia, Japanese companies don't come where it's bad. Japanese companies come to countries that represent an attractive investment destination that Serbia certainly is today. When we talk about the budget, and hence the amendments and additions to the Budgetary or Budgetary Rebalancing Act, the budget is life. Unreal budget is an unreal life. This is where you ask a few essential questions. Whether life in Serbia was supposed to stand in the pandemic period caused by Kovid and whether the President, the Government, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, were supposed to behave, I'll do a digression, as you know when there's a bad time outside, and then try to hide somewhere, and wait for that bad weather to pass, and then continue on the path you're headed. When I say, figuratively, the path you started, I mean the realisation of the Minister's goal of saying "Serbia 2025", and I mean the government's reform path that began in 2014, which is based on growth, reform, development, progress and prosperity. Of course, neither the president nor the government nor the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did, because it would be extremely irresponsible and it would be extremely unserious. The state, therefore, accepted the greatest burden of the crisis during the pandemic period. I don't want that, the blackest possible, worst-case scenario has been avoided, and I don't want to compare Serbia with other countries. Let's just talk about Serbia, I don't want to compare Serbia to countries in the region or outside the region, but let's just talk about Serbia and our results. So, the worst possible scenario has been avoided, the system has shown to be functioning when the hardest and not only is the system working, but the system achieves economic indicators and economic results that are at an envious level. You know, you can place a lie through the public, you can place falses, but when you talk about economics, there's numbers, there's indicators, there's facts, they're exact. There you cannot fool the citizens of Serbia and on the other hand, of course, that the citizens of Serbia feel what the president and the government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are doing. So, through the budget are defined pillars, I would say, development in the next period of time, the goals that are to be achieved and this rebalancing is actually a continuation of the realisation of that path, I said the ultimate goal is what you were talking about "Serbia 2025", the average pension of 470 euros, after the average salary in Serbia of 900 euros. And you know, as our people say, one who stands in the middle of the road and doesn't cross either side usually gets run over. Of course, it was not allowed by the president of Serbia, the government or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is the reform government for a difficult time, and we talked about it during the constitution and formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and every legislative proposal, the minister, which came from your ministry, and in particular, macroeconomic stability, regarding finance, in the period when it was the most difficult since March of the month to date, cannot be defined as a political declaration. He had clearly and specifically defined objectives and clearly and specifically defined deadlines. These objectives have been realised, and the deadlines have not been breached at any time. The first two aid packages showed results, and the third package, as you said, aims to preserve the job economy, provide one, I would say, good starting position in Serbia for a period, actually for the first day of the pandemic period, when the pandemic of the virus passes. Why the budget rebalance? The mitigation of the consequences caused by the pandemic, as well as the increased number of capital investments, as well as the completion of those capital investments that have begun, and the completion of both those investments, above all, when it comes to health infrastructure, which is also extremely important and significant at this point. Speaking of health care, huge money has been allocated for vaccines, it is very important for the citizens of Serbia, because health has no price. The struggle for vaccines today is like in March of last year the fight for respirators and we are the only country in the world, that the only country in Europe, I said I don't want to compare, but the only country in Europe that had all four vaccines available and none of them were late, there was no delay in the revaccination. The only state that has very clear and precise defined goals. And the goal is, at the end of May, more than three million citizens to be rehabilitated and the fight continues after May. So, what, when it comes to health infrastructure, I particularly want to stress is that the construction of a new cove of the hospital in Novi Sad is planned, and then it moves with the construction of the vaccine factory, and I especially want to point out that the Chinese Sinopharma vaccines are being produced, the factory is planned to be built in co-operation with Chinese partners from China and UEA, and it is expected that the construction of this vaccine factory will start in mid-October of this year. The plan is to produce more than two million doses of Sinopharma vaccines per month in the factory, which would be used for Serbia's needs, but would be exported primarily to other countries of the region. So, another confirmation, a confirmation of the success of Serbian politics during the pandemic period, so Serbia is a factor of stability in the region. Another great news when we talk about vaccines announced a few days ago by the President of the Republic, I think that "Torak" will become one of the largest vaccine producers and the most recognizable vaccine producers, not only in the region, but wider. That after consulting with the ministers, with the representatives of the pharmaceutical industry, with health experts brought in, correct me if I mistake 18m euros to invest in packing and filling vaccines to invest 20m euros in the equipment of the Torlak and to move with the business plan, with the project to implement the production of a four-dollar vaccine. I also spoke with colleagues from the field of health professions, and this is of paramount importance and importance, for Serbia. When we also talk about health infrastructure, it is planned to complete the work on the reconstruction of the construction of KC in Belgrade, and there is a reconstruction of KC Vojvodina, in Novi Sad, as I said, as well as other general hospitals. I'll remind you that by budgeting 2021, we've defined three pillars, clearly three pillars of development to get to that final goal. First, the fight against the crown, the second standard of living for citizens and the third, greater isolation for capital investments. When it comes to fighting the crown, I've already told you what the point is. When it comes to the standard of living of citizens, I want to remind myself, therefore, of 704 billion dinars or 6 billion euros were allocated to the third package, which is 12.9% of GDP. If there is one country in Europe and the world, I have to make a digression and comparison, which in the pandemic period, increased pensions by 5.9%, which increased public sector wages by 3.5%, and 1.5%, minimum labour price by 6.6%, health workers' salaries by 5%, whether there is one country in the world that has singled out in the first two 100-euro packages for full-time citizens, for pensioners 4000, and 5,000 dinars, and for health workers 10,000 dinars. This third aid package is worth 257 billion dinars and that is 4.3% of GDP. So state aid since the start of the pandemic, when we add these three aid packages, is 17.9% of GDP. What does that mean when we talk about the standard of living of citizens? Very taxing, therefore - one-time assistance for 1.7 million pensioners of 50 euros; aid for 6,118,911 full-time citizens of 60 euros; citizens on the NSZ record will also receive additional 60 euros of one-off assistance; direct State aid of 1.5 minimums for 1,505,093 entrepreneurs and employees in micro, small, medium, but also in large enterprises. In addition to one minimum support of another full minimumer will receive hosts, tourist agencies, licensed tourist guides. City hotels will receive direct state support of 350 euros per individual bed, 150 euros per accommodation unit. Direct support will be given to carriers, 600 euros per bus over a six-month period. For all Serbs with KIM, those who recognise Serbia as their country, 100 euros, plus 100 euros for the unemployed. So, as I said, together with the two previous packages, the total state aid since the start of the pandemic is 17.2% of GDP. When it comes to the third pillar that we consider to be of great importance and importance, we talked about it during the 2021 budget, never again has Serbia singled out for capital investments, 330 billion dinars, which is 5.5% of GDP. This should now encourage the realization of the 6% GDP growth rate projected. It has been shown that when the state encourages investment, i.e. when the state invests in capital investments, it encourages both foreign and domestic investors to invest. The rebalancing sets out an additional 88 billion dinars for new investments, to continue large capital projects with which we have already begun, that is, with which it has already started. Four highways are currently being built. The "Milos Velika" section from Preljina to Požega will be completed, as said, on January 7th of the following year. An agreement will be signed in May to extend the 107km highway, it seems to me to Montenegro, a total of 1.5 billion euros. So in two hours and 15 minutes you get to Montenegro, which was unimaginable in the previous period of time. Ruma – Šabac – Loznica is built, then Lijkovac – Valjevo, which I have to especially highlight as a localpatriot, then work on the construction of the Moravski Corridor, i.e. The highway from Pojat to Preljina. The next year of the Belgrade track – Novi Sad – will be completed. It is a project documentation for the reconstruction of the bar track, Valjevo – Vrbnica on the border with Montenegro. The construction of the Balkan Stream ends and a secondary pipeline network will be built to Vranja and Valjev. Suspecting projects will continue in Tenta A and B in Obrenovac, and we will also build a sewer network in a large number of municipalities and cities. In Kragujevac alone, 650km of sewage is to be built, while in Nis it will be 525km. So, we fully believe when the president says that Serbia will have eight highways on December 1st, and it will be something that has not been recorded in Serbia's history, something we have never had the strength, nor the power, nor the possibilities. This shows how fast Serbia is moving forward against other countries. Especially when it comes to infrastructure, I want to point out something that I fully support, which is for building a Belgrade subway, three billion 210 million dinars, which is a sign that this year will work intensively to prepare project documentation, and at the end of the year, work on this project that has been under way for more than three decades. Our friend, Milutin Mrkonjic, spoke very often about this project and we're younger somehow, I don't belong to that younger generation anymore, let's tell the middle generation, but we learned from it that there is no economic without infrastructure development. So, he spoke repeatedly about the beginnings of this project and the opening of the first stage with a subway station near the Wolf's monument. For agriculture, as colleagues have said, an additional 5.5 billion dinars have been allocated, and four billion dinars for ecology. We have a project to build a municipal infrastructure for the disposal of municipal solid waste in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the improvement of environmental infrastructure. Ecology is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government will certainly continue to implement these projects and activities aimed at improving the state of the environment, raising the budget. The best evidence says how much the state is committed to it. Every time it comes to budget rebalancing, there are additional questions – where is the money for budget rebalancing? Part of the money is projected to rebalance the budget precisely because a good result is achieved in the first quarter, better for about 500m euros than planned. Exactly, less borrowing is foreseen, it is going to the domestic and international financial market and it certainly is in line with the economy run by almost all of the world's economies, but also with the policy we defined during last year. There are criticisms, but all the criticisms we hear simply leave aside the results. The results are the answer to every criticism. The fiscal council, with all due respect, but it's nice to sit in comfortable chairs, it's nice to deal with analysis, reports, but narrow professional policy, I'll repeat who knows which time, is not a magic wand. You can't blame the government for helping the standard of living and for helping the citizens. This contributes to poverty reduction, which contributes to increased consumption, purchasing power. That's, I guess, the interest of all of us. It's not something Serbia invented, it's used, as much as I know bigger world economies like Japan, like the United States. So it's not a narrow professional policy magic wand. The government runs an economic but socially responsible policy. When they say it has a non-selective approach when it comes to infrastructure projects, it would be good to sometimes get up, leave the salon policy, get out of comfortable chairs, go to the citizens, talk to the citizens and ask the citizens how they feel when they get the state's 100-euro support, when they get the state's support with this third package and how citizens feel when they're aware that eight highways will be built in Serbia. At the very end, of course the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5646	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. For our children, Dr Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5647	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, we have heard a lot today when it comes to numbers and when there is at all one plan for a better life at the time of the pandemic that has hit the whole world and which has completely transformed the way it works when it comes to economic activities, including the lives of all of us. When you look at the need to fight a pandemic that is completely unpredictable, when at the same time you have to set up certain economic plans, organise life in one country and therefore do a budget proposal, then you take one big responsibility for everything you need to do, first and foremost for the citizens who chose you, and also for the country itself that needs to be preserved because what we do today echoes for the future. This is the essence of politics that the Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandra Vucic, took responsibility for in 2012, has simply given citizens on several occasions to declare it, both in 2014 and 2016 when the elections were parliamentary and in 2017, when they were presidential elections. So, every time the citizens recognized who was fighting for their interests, and who wanted to return to power to make a personal fortune, and this wealth came from Serbia and to certain paradises, so-called. Destinations, because he doesn't pay taxes there and simply, with that money every time he tries to create Serbia's policy. This does not go away and Serbia's citizens will never make a mistake in their decision, especially when they have responsible politicians such as Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party, who, in daily contacts with citizens, discuss all their problems and address exactly these problems is one of the goals that this rebalancing gives to MPs, solve some of the historical problems that have accumulated and at a time when the budget and the draft budget rebalances at this time of difficult changes in this budget, also covers. Why am I saying that? Because many segments of society, such as agriculture, such as culture, as in the end, and solving many of the problems that this pandemic has caused, you have to solve daily. You have to change and put into your own plan when it comes to public finances and as such a plan, simply, to implement. It is not simple, because it would simply not have been the most successful of developed EU countries, because when you look at the more developed economies of the EU and a small Serbia that carried out its economic reforms, then you come to the conclusion that, above all, we have been extremely disciplined in our public finances, have been extremely responsible both for the citizens and for the budget of the Republic of Serbia that, thanks to the citizens' acceptance of economic reforms and fiscal consolidation and what Mr. Vukic was doing while he was prime minister, so we can now talk about implementing development policy through our budgets. So, where infrastructure works are given and included 7.2% of GDP, and sometimes they were 2% and 3.2%, it says that this budget is going towards that development budget precisely to achieve the high growth rates that we set out in December for the 2021 budget, and they are 6%. In order for us to achieve such high goals, we need to set ourselves, simply, high requirements in carrying out economic activities. Those high demands were just given here in this third package of support. So, we heard, it's about health care, it's about economic support and citizens and it's about investing, investing in infrastructure through a completely aggressive way. What this government does, the Ministry of Finance and the President of the State, is it is that they look at every day all those circumstances that put pressure on our economy, and also on the environment and on the world, and that is simply what you at some point recognize the need to react as a state. The budget plan and the budget rebalancing plan are usually done on the basis of existing results, the current situation, primarily as you completed the previous year, 2020, and what they gave the right two months in 2021 as macroeconomic indicators. So, the previous year that was very difficult for the whole world, we ended up with 1% of the GDP drop, when we're talking about economic activities at all, we ended up with 8.8% of the deficit, if you remember, we also had one rebalance, we ended up with 58.5% of the public debt GDP, and we ended up with an inflow of foreign direct investment of over three billion, in net 2.9 billion euros, which is about 60% of the total investment in the region. Therefore, Serbia went out with stable macroeconomic indicators last year. The opposition representatives, such as Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovica, laughed that we have four years of surplus in the budget, that we do not know that we are projecting budgets and that no country has drawn up so many surpluses, and that this surplus was not, we could not at all talk about good results at the time of the Kovid-19 pandemic, we could not talk about plans to implement a policy that should involve aggressive investment in the area of infrastructure, we could not talk about supporting citizens we had both last year and this year. The support for citizens is constantly a dilemma among economists who usually give their criticism of the measures brought by the Serbian government. He's talking about making a difference between citizens. What is the responsibility of the government of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance is that we do not want to make a difference between citizens, that someone has a greater right than another citizen to be in front of another at the request of the state's support. By doing so, we want to give equal treatment to this crisis, which is being experienced by all the countries, by these very measures that will give the right to any citizen who applies for aid in this package of 60 euros, in the previous package, that was 100 euros, to use that right. He doesn't have to use it, but he can use it. Just like we gave the vaccine right-- they can use the citizens' right to choose one of four vaccines, and they can even retain the right not to vaccinate at all. The responsibility of each of us is individual in that part, and it is somewhere and the Serbian Government has recognised at the head of the Finance Ministry that this offer should simply be given to citizens and therefore you have much better effects, because when you do not have that kind of coercion that some countries have, you achieve much better results. Why do we say that last year has been specific for all EU countries, including us? Because what the Serbian government did, which is that it gave the first and second package of comprehensive measures, well, dynamically targeted when they were going to implement them, which was literally a month after the pandemic was announced and the closure of Europe as well as Serbia when it came to police hours. So, such well-targeted measures have produced good results and this is an indicator, in fact, when you look at the developed EU economies as late as they have responded to these measures. Why did they allow them to be double numbers when it comes to the decline of GDP, when it comes to their economic activities? The debt went beyond even 80% of GDP, such as Germany, for example, Italy, such as Spain, which was also hit very much by this pandemic. Today's package of rebalancing opportunities that we have here to see implies the area of health, investment in health, we have a new Kovid hospital next to the two that were built, which in the world wasn't built at the time of the pandemic. So we have a part of creating conditions for opening a factory that will produce the vaccine itself. You have complete reconstructions of investment in this health infrastructure and in that part, most importantly, the digitisation that started in Serbia in 2016 has shown, in fact, that when you apply in health care that it gives very good results. That's why we have a very modern vaccination process where everyone who comes here to carry out the vaccination simply praises the whole model that we organized as a society in general this whole process. What I wanted to shed more light on in this exhibition is that support for citizens and businesses. We've heard of support for the citizens, but the economy is also the part in this package directly targeted on the basis of the demands of all professions. So, both part of tourism and part of traffic and even social contributions that may not have been recognised so far when they are unemployed. Somewhere recognized and given more weight, but also a special part of me think that the guarantee schemes that businesses give one additional momentum that they can enter the investments they planned, and maybe they've been stopped by a pandemic. So, two guarantee schemes. One refers to guarantees when it comes to the Development Fund, and the other is that in commercial banks, businessmen will have the right to raise loans where the state provides guarantees, which means that then those additional guarantees that every businessman has to give somewhere relaxing relations in the very functioning of each individual when we talk about legal persons. When we talk about structure, about infrastructure, we are talking about double investment today when it comes to environmental protection. Today is the time when developed companies coming from Japan want to open their new jobs, want to open factories that will simply produce those products that will participate in the latest innovative projects such as electric car production, car production without drivers. So we're talking about the Fourth Industrial Revolution in which Serbia and its young engineers simply send to participate in such projects. It's a big thing when big companies in terms of their investment and innovative projects have recognized our young people and have recognized that they need to open up innovative centres here that will apply new technologies and employ our educated young engineers. For us, this is one of the important information, because what we had last year as a big surprise for the inflow of foreign direct investment for Japanese companies that opened the factory and invested it almost in December 2020, we now have the announcement "Nideka" that it will open its production capacities here in Serbia and simply meant calling all Japanese companies that want to open new factories and new jobs here, is in fact an indication that companies with high-level standards in the areas of environmental protection of Serbia recognise as a very good investment destination. This means that Serbia really has reason to look forward, because future investors will also want to come here and simply create new jobs. It's very good that we had the opportunity to hear that in the first two months, the growth of the industry was complete at 2.6%, which was just trade and the processing industry's high rates of almost 7% and 8%, and we think it's actually a very good indicator that these rates of growth of 6% that were projected by this budget must be real, and that's what we suffered the greatest criticism of, if you remember, when we discussed the budget in December. We think that in fact this budget rebalancing is one plan for Serbia's future, to lay sound ground that as much as we can resist all the negative effects of the Kovid pandemic – 19, to set realistic foundations based on four corridors that we build and a total of eight highways that we will have almost developed a network of traffic, to open up the possibility of the whole region, and also to be what we have always been, the link between the east and the west, between the north and the south, simply a transit zone where everyone wants not only to pass, but simply to cooperate with the states, because they reduce their traffic and transport costs, to be a country where we will be recognised as partners, whether these companies come from certain developed regions like the EU or the US or the Russian Federation, to be recognized as someone who is the bearer of development. Thus, citizens have real reason to have hope that this plan that we set "Serbia 2020-2025", where the average salary will be 900 euros and pension 440, will, in fact, be one real plan for us when it comes to the Republic of Serbia's budget in general, and it is projected for, say, the next five years. What is of great importance to us is that this anti-crisis package, regardless of all the criticisms and by the Fiscal Council when it comes to supporting citizens and when it comes to increasing wages and pensions, and this increase in public debt does not go to the fact that 60% of GDP when it comes to Mastricht, so there is a requirement in terms of European integration and it is of great importance to us, regardless of what we are investing in the military, when it comes to investment in machinery, equipment, because today's modern states, if they want to have a developed economy, they have to invest in their own army. I will remind you that we are not a NATO member and that we simply as states that we have a neutral military strategy act extremely responsibly when we invest in the military, especially when we talk about the salaries of our soldiers and elders, and we think that it is of great importance because you cannot ignore one sector when it comes to investments and others, that we are now forging exclusively certain sectors such as culture, such as education, health care, and that on the other hand you keep the entire army and the police at a certain level from several years ago. It's just not real and we'll never let it happen. Those who ran the military sector until 2012 were completely destroyed by equipment and we are simply trying to solve these historical problems in this budget and this rebalancing. That's why I said this was a plan for a better life, but here we've been solving big problems that have been piling up for years. So, the budget that was doubled to protect the environment involves 70 projects for local self-government, solving issues and waste water and waste management and municipal dumps, so the complete construction, before that part that relates to the feasibility of the study, to the project solutions, is simply put into this rebalancing right now, and that's of great importance to all of us. Those demands we have for a quasipolitan for a healthy life in terms of water, air and land have always been a priority for us, it's just a question of whether you had money for it, and it's just a question of whether you were able to realise such projects. Obviously, there are now conditions that when you have enough money in the register that you can invest in projects like this. Now it's that moment, and apparently it's now stored for this year and next year to enter into realisation. Mr Minister, it is a great pleasure that after all these years, we have the chance to say that this much investment in infrastructure will really do Serbia better and we are now seeing a new face of Serbia, and I think that after 3-4 years, Serbia will be completely unrecognizable when you look at the economy in general and when you look at the functioning of any area of Serbia's development compared to the one that was until 2012. In voting day, our parliamentary group will support this kind of rebalancing proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5648	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5649	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, if you would just give me a chance to rely on what Mrs Tomic just said and I would concentrate only on investments in ecology, on investment in environmental protection. So if you carefully read the rebalance of this budget, you'll see that the additional funds for ecology are increased by 16 billion dinars compared to the initial budget of 2021, so with eight billion in the initial budget, we're now in the budget's rebalancing to 24 billion, so three times the investment in ecology, three times the investment in the green economy, three times the investment in environmental protection. Of that money, out of those 16 billion, four billion dinars are located at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and an additional 12.1 billion at the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure and relate to the construction of dumps in 28 local self-government, waste water treatment plants in 65 local self-government and 73 locations and 169 purifiers and sewers for about 5,000km. In particular, in order for you as citizens and as MPs to know, at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, funding from the Council of Europe's loan through the CEB, 200m euros, and 77.6m euros for the first six municipalities. This refers to the construction of a sewer and wastewater treatment plant. So, for the first six municipalities: Bačka Palanka, Vienna, Velika Gradište, Priboj, Babušnica and Bela Palanka. The contracts are signed in August, 57.5m euros. The contracts are signed in September for seven other municipalities: Caves, Lapovo, Temerin, Petrovac at Mlava, Negotin, Bolec and Dimitrovgrad. By the end of the year, contracts amounting to 65m euros for the remaining 14 municipalities: Ruma, Novi Knezevic, Raška, Kopalnik, Ivanjica, Osijek, Bac, Gornji Milanovac, Nova Varoš, Književac, Bajina Basta, Apatin, Srbobran and Divcibare. Another project is the construction of regional waste management centres, covering the needs of 50 local self-government, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, hence the EBRD, worth 100m euros. We're going with two stages. In the first phase of 29 municipalities. In phase two, 21 municipalities. At this first stage, among other things, there is Valjevo, Sombor, Užice, Nova Varosh. In the second phase: Pirot, Fireman, Sremska Mitrovica and Indjia. Otherwise, the Ministry of Environmental Protection budget also provided the following: 200 million dinars for the purchase of waste collection equipment, 160 million dinars for the construction of the transfer of the station to Knjižvac, 160 million dinars for the construction of the transfer of the station to Novi Varoša, 154 million dinars for the closure, rehabilitation and removal of the city dump, 90 million dinars for the construction of the New Sad bay system, 90 million dinars for the expansion of the dump in Užica, 70 million dinars for the construction of the pyrotic city dump, 45 million dinars for the closure of non-sanitary and wild deposits in Kovin. So, a lot, a lot of things, and at the Ministry of Construction, Infrastructure and Traffic, we're working together with the CRC from China. So, I said in my opening statement, we're going with 22 local self-governments. This year, we are going to build a complete construction of a missing sewerage network, so sewage infrastructure, and wastewater treatment plants. So this year it moves: Novi Sad, Ada, Mali Crnića, Knic, Lazarec, Svrljig, Varvarin, Vlasotince, Vranje, Bor, Kladovo, Krupanj, Lajkovac, Mininica, Banja Vruci, Obrenovac, Vranjska Banja, Svilajnac, Vladičin Han, Vrnjačka Banja, Aleksandrovac, Golubac and Cicevic. So there's no mistake, why these 22 local self-governments? First, this is where the projects progressed the fastest and the fastest to be completed. In the next and other local self-governments, I said, only through these projects that we're doing with Chinese partners. We have a total of 65 local self-governments. So the total value of the entire project, all of what we're going to do, with CRBC alone is 3.2 billion euros. Add 200m euros of loans from the Council of Europe, 100m euros from the EBRD. So 3.5 billion euros we start investing in the cleaning of dumps, construction of sewers, completion and construction of wastewater treatment plants, dumps. So all that is important for the quality of life of Serbian citizens, all that is important for our green economy, for the future and health of our fellow citizens, and in this way we best answer exactly all those questions, suggestions and concerns that are related to our strategy when it comes to ecosystems. So, a strong, aggressive plan of capital investments in what is called environmental and environmental protection, not only in the story, not only in visions, forecasts, etc., but in concrete figures, concrete projects, in what is in the budget rebalancing that is before you today and which covers all of Serbia when these projects are at stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5650	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now we're going to go to the list of signed up for the word. The first is National MP Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5651	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important question, in fact, of the Rebalancing Act or of the change of budget that required life itself, namely trends in movement and the needs of the population and citizens of the state, especially in the time of the pandemic, and this is quite expected. What I would point out is that for every commendation is the fact that even in these difficult times of crisis, we can hear that the budget is developmental, and this rebalancing has also been confirmed. What does that mean? If the budget rebalance is brought for three main reasons, as we heard, among other things, because of capital investments, then we can certainly say that it is very important from the position of the state, that in the time of the pandemic, in the time of the major economic crisis, significant funds can be allocated to capital projects. Apropo of what the minister was just talking about, about the significantly larger funds allocated to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, that is, environmental issues, I would like to commend in any case. So, about 50% of the increase in funds for this ministry is very important and I would like to point out and praise the involvement of the ministry that has worked in the territory of the municipality of Prepolje on the removal and recovery of the dump, but I will also point out that in the vicinity of Novi Pazar is the Golo hill dump, which represents a real ecological bomb, i.e. we can say freely – a disaster for that part of the country, so that, in future some plans, it would be very important and very necessary to have in mind both the resolution and this dump. On the other hand, as I have already mentioned, 7.2% of GDP is invested in capital projects, highways, networking, both at the state level and with countries around us, notably Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, etc. is a very important and important project. On the other hand, health infrastructure is an important segment envisioned by this budget rebalance and MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party have certainly highlighted the support of all these projects, noting that the issue of a clinical hospital centre in Novi Pazar must be resolved, and where there is a great need for citizens of that part of the country to solve this problem. I hope the other MPs don't mind the fact that the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party mention the towns of Sandzak and that part of the country in their exhibitions too well, and the reason is simple. So, if you have total marginalization and abandonment for many years, we can say for decades, then problems accumulate and then you need to bring up all the problems that citizens face on the ground. Health infrastructure, along with construction, reconstruction of existing health facilities, is certainly a very important project. The third reason, as we have heard, for the adoption of budget rebalancing is certainly to help citizens and the economy due to the coves of the pandemic, and this is the third-largest package of assistance to citizens, which is very, very important. From that aspect, too, all praises for including one larger leprosy of business branches in the very process of assistance. We have seen that from the field of tourism, hospitality, even independent artists will get some kind of help, which is very important. On the other hand, through our discussions, we highlighted the question of needs and additional assistance to farmers, therefore, farmers and cattlemen who are really at risk at this point. This is the second year of the pandemic in which we are in, and simply because of the different problems they face, due to the low demand of agricultural products in the livestock sector, they are in a better position to say, in fact, in a better way, to keep their households on one envious level. It's a pretty good place to take care of the deadlines. When it comes to the payment of subsidies guaranteed to farmers themselves, do not be late because these subsidies are very important in terms of maintaining life in the country itself. On the other hand, consideration should be taken of young farmers. Young people living in the country are actually a perspective, because the sustainability of life in the country will not be possible unless young couples meet through some subsidies granted to these young people. The village sometimes encounters various administrative, bureaucratic problems, so that in this sense it is necessary to simplify the procedure and make it possible to get these funds more actively. On the other hand, work to encourage young people to stay in the country through resolution and housing issues. On the other hand, another resource that we may not have used up enough, and for which citizens would probably have feelings, if it were to be worked more seriously, that a large number of young people actually live in the city, and they left their households in the country and it would be necessary to restore them, because the greater perspective is that the young couple in the country have their own house, their own household rather than being a tenant in the city, may be out of a job and so on. So, in that sense, it would be very important to act. I'm going to take the opportunity to pass on the words of a respected host from the cave that I was recently in communication with, who really made a deep impression on me. During talks, he says at one point: “I thought that my son, who has already founded a family in the country, would never leave the village, but now I am no longer sure, due to all the difficulties they face. ” So once again I would like to call on the competent authorities to treat farmers, there is in particular more hearing about direct assistance to them, and I see that the funds for the Ministry of Agriculture have been increased, but it is necessary that this means and the kind of assistance come directly to farmers themselves. In this regard, we welcome certainly recent arrests, related to the abuse of subsidies from the area of agriculture. Of course, there are many abuses in this field, and the fact is that crime and some illegal actions happen not only in some other spheres, but unfortunately other industries such as agriculture have been affected by sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5652	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5653	Thank you very much for your presentation. I want to answer you with concrete projects relating to Sandzak and that part of Serbia. In Novi Pazar from a Chinese loan that we finance the construction of sewers and wastewater treatment plants, you have a total value of 92.3m euros. A total of 110km of sewage pipes will be built and you have one wastewater processing facility totaling 47.3m euros. So, 47.3m euros in Novi Pazar, the value of the facility, 45m euros in 110km of sewage pipes, totals 92.3m euros. When it comes to the total length of the 29km sewage pipes, the value is almost 12m euros. The value of the facility, you have five smaller wastewater processing plants, sevenm euros, a total of nearly 19m euros in Sjenica. Tutin, 74km of sewage pipes, totaling 30.3m euros and plus four wastewater treatment plants, totalled 38m euros. You asked for the Preceeds. So 60km of sewage pipes worth 26m euros, plus two wastewater treatment plants, totaling 13.3m euros. So 39m euros just for Prepolje. Otherwise, all the projects, so here I'm talking about concrete projects, preliminary values that are related to projects that are already under way. As the projects end, the work begins, and as the president has promised, these works will not stop until all of this is spent and all of this is built. When it comes to Prepolje and Sjenica, the regional waste management system Nova Varoš, which moves to build in Q 3 and Q4, so the third or fourth quarter of this year, includes both Prepolje and Sjenica. It covers 107,222 inhabitants who generate 26,000 tons of municipal waste annually. So, when I spoke earlier about these programmes, the honourable MPs, the whole of Serbia is at stake. So we're going to build what generations, unfortunately, have failed to finish behind us, and that's the sewerage network, the wastewater treatment plants. So these are concrete projects, concrete figures, concrete kilometers of sewers. So we work and build better and better Serbia. I hope I've answered your question. Now, as local self-government speeds up the work to prepare the documentation, so will the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5654	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5655	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Mali, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, had it not been for extraordinary circumstances, had there not been a pandemic of the coronary virus that caused the crisis around the world, and therefore in Serbia, it would have been both unjust and unrealistic for anyone in the first quarter to bring budget rebalancing. However, this rebalancing should be observed and it is a financial response to the crisis and is aimed at easing the consequences of the Kovid 19 epidemic. Serbia reacted quickly and efficiently to the health crisis. Huge funds are aimed at fighting the pandemic. First of all, to obtain the necessary equipment, respirators, medicines and other medical resources, to improve health infrastructure, to build two completely new hospitals in Batajnica and Kruševec, to obtain vaccines and organise vaccinations, where we are among the most efficient and best organized countries in the world. That's what everybody's giving us. Also, large funds are also aimed at restoring the economy and the population. It should be noted that at a time of crisis, it does not care about capital investments, including the front of highways and railways. In order to effectively continue to fight the crisis, whose current and duration no one can predict, we need to bring rebalancing due to additional costs and a new anti-crisis package. That is why this budget rebalancing should be seen as economically justified, as large allocations are foreseen for health care, investment in health, travel, railway infrastructure and, in particular, for environmental protection. If we look at the rebalancing structure, the largest percent of the assets go into investment. Even the Fiscal Council estimated that investment in infrastructure is also a good fiscal policy, especially in times of crisis because it promotes economic growth. With this rebalancing, we will provide an additional 200m euros for healthcare, which includes the purchase of vaccines, construction and equipment of a brand-new plant for the production of vaccines against the corona virus, the reconstruction of Torlak for the purposes of producing different types of vaccines, which would ensure that Serbia has a regular supply of vaccines in the long term and strategic manner with our own, but also for the population of the countries of the region. Part of the funds mentioned two hundred million euros foreseen for healthcare will be allocated for reconstruction, equipment and construction of new hospitals. The construction of a hospital in Novi Sad has been announced and the completion of Serbia's Clinical Centre in Belgrade has been announced. The construction of a clinical centre in Novi Pazar is also promised as necessary, since Novi Pazar is a center where several towns and municipalities of that part of Serbia are being treated and we expect the clinical centre to be built. Part of the money provided for healthcare and additional costs for employees, doctors, nurses and non-medical staff, since they have continued to bear the greatest burden of this crisis and therefore it is our obligation as a society to be adequate and rewarded. This rebalancing also envisions an increase of 330m euros in infrastructure building. Out of that amount, nearly half of the funds are planned to invest in the railways, most of which will reach Belgrade's fast track – Novi Sad, with trains going 200km per hour, and from one city to another in about 25 minutes. The importance of this project is also that about 170 domestic companies, such as subcontractors and suppliers of equipment and repromation, were engaged on it. At this moment, as many as four highways are being built in Serbia and in less than a year, the Preljina-Požega highway will be completed. It's also planned to continue that share towards the Bolsari. There is also the Preljina highway – Pojate, then, Ruma – Šabac – Loznica, Belgrade – Zrenjanin and numerous domestic companies and subcontractors have been hired at these sites. These roads, along with the benefits they bring to people living in those parts of Serbia, as well as all of us, will also contribute to the arrival of investment in these parts of our country, as well as to comprehensive development and, when we consider all this, it is clear how investment in infrastructure contributes to the country's growth. What I especially need to point out is that it's a good thing that the investment in the environment is recognised by the government as one of the key priorities. The rebalance envisions 130m euros for investment in municipal infrastructure and environmental protection, and we have never had a higher environmental budget before, it has doubled from 16 to 24 billion dinars. Most of these funds will be invested in the construction of sewage infrastructure and modern sanitary regional dumps in municipalities and cities, as well as waste water treatment plants. And this is one of the important steps in meeting the plan for all citizens in Serbia to have a solution to the water and sewers problem by 2025. Here it is necessary to highlight the evaluation of the Fiscal Council, which believes that the proposed rebalancing in this area could be a turning point in solving environmental pollution problems. It is also good that this rebalancing provides for a new anti-crisis package of support for the economy and the population, as the epidemic continues to last and a number of businesses and citizens are still financially at risk. Nearly two billion euros is scheduled for a new third package of measures. In the last year and for the previous two packages, the state allocated about six billion euros to help citizens and businesses. One of the most affected branches of the economy is tourism and hospitality. That is why the government has passed a regulation granting assistance to tourist guides and tourists in the amount of two minimum earnings, i.e. two times 30,900 dinars. Aid in the same amount, i.e. two minimum earnings will be obtained and employees of hospitality and tourism, as well as 3,100 independent artists. This is especially important because without art and culture, there is no identity of a country. What will please farmers in Serbia is that the funds for agriculture will be increased by 5.5 billion dinars. Most of that money, nearly five billion, will be directed to subsidise agricultural production. The total subsidy budget in 2021 with additional rebalancing funds is close to 42 billion dinars, and that's good news, because if we take into account the fact that agriculture participates 9.5% in the total GDP of the state, it tells us that larger redundancies in agriculture are never lost. To conclude that the new third anti-crisis package was a necessary and good move by the government, because the epidemic is still present and the citizens and the economy are not yet able to return to normal life flows and distortions. In order to overcome the epidemic as soon as possible, it is necessary that we take advantage of the possibility that rarely anyone in the world today, that in the largest number of vaccines, and as soon as possible, and if we are all responsible by June, we reach collective immunity in July and start living and working normally. Serbia's Social Democratic Party in the voting day will support the proposed rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5656	Thank you. MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5657	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister Sinisa Mali, Mr. Stevanovic, what is the sum of the sumum of the work so far, at least when it comes to the fight against the Kovids, is the result of eight billion euros in how many different ways the state has singled out so far to help the population and the health system. This would be recalculated as 17.3% of total GDP in percentages. Not to repeat all the aid packages, because my colleagues before me have talked about it, they will, of course, also talk about colleagues who speak after me, but what is most important should be pointed out that, at this time, it was necessary to preserve the stability of the state in every sense and, of course, financially. Mr. Minister, you just did it. You helped agriculture now and with this rebalancing. You helped the health care. You helped the sport. You helped the culture, the economy, the economy, the military, the police. You've managed to remember everyone. As much as someone says it's -- it's hard, I have a feeling that in Serbia it's working the way it was before this bird started. It's all in our plan somehow. The fiscal council and Mr. Pavle Petrovic these days, since I'm a member of the Finance Committee, I've had the opportunity to hear that they had some disagreements, certain objections, but it's kind of the same thing every year, but the fact is that this time, too, he praised the budget more than he criticized, and it's for you, above all, a great success when a professor like Mr. Pavle Petrovic praises what you do. Yesterday, on a break between two and three, I had the opportunity to see on TV in my office that part of the film "Mars na Drin" and there were Stepa Stepanovic, the legendary scene when Major Kursula reported to him, etc. And it reminded me of you and Paul Petrovic where Kursula told the general - general, so did I say that this would be a strategy and it is true. You were right about you and Paul Petrovic, as well as the actors of the film that I was talking about back then, and the fact is that regardless of these differences, both of you are working for the benefit of this country and for the benefit of this people, with the fact that for you I have to admit that you are a little bit more right and that you are a better strategist. They say critics, not critics, that we are over the 60% limit, and I have to say that we have not broken any 60 percent norm, and we have the right to do so as everyone else and I will only briefly quote what is going on in Europe that we are constantly calling on and that needs to be some rapper. EU members are forced to live on credit due to the root of the crisis. Their debts build up from Finland to Greece. The European Statistics Office announced that the total share of state budgets will be over 100% this year. If it is considered that we are at 60%, then you can easily and easily see how stable Serbia's economic system is. What I have to say, since I talked about the Austro-Hungarians a moment ago, and I mentioned "March to Drin", I can't say that Germany's debt is also at a record level and that it is currently 2,200 billion euros. It's a new record. The German debt to GDP today accounts for 80% of the state account. So, Mr. Minister, you're a good strategist. We're way ahead of everyone. This was the first reason for the rebalancing, meaning helping citizens in crisis situations, colleagues will talk about details, and the second is an even more active participation in the "Serbia 2025" project, which implies that 14 billion euros will be invested in various projects. I won't have time, I'll try to honor what the chairman said, that we would have to take a break at two o'clock, because of your further duties, but here's how far I get. So, of these 14 billion euros, what is most important for Serbian citizens is that the planned salary for 2025 is an average of 900 euros. And in that direction, regardless of the circumstances in which the state is, we go, that's all the parameters and all the facts show. The roads are planned for five billion, of course at all times to maintain a stable course of dinars. We'll have two longest tunnels. President Aleksandar Vukic drew what was done by the traffic station and drew attention to the two tunnels. One is 2,850 meters, one is 2,750 meters, so in Serbia it is built as in the happiest times and these are facts and we can all see and follow. Pensions are planned to be doubled to 440 euros and what you mentioned earlier has been allocated a billion for water and sewerage in each village. I must boast that my Vranjka Banja is on that list of yours, too. Thank you for that and the Department of Construction, because we're also going to have a sewer and water treatment system. Since I come from Vrnjaka Banja, I must also commend the vouchers that have been split again this year, i.e. They will be divided into citizens of Serbia. I urge you once again to reach Vrnjaka Banja in addition to all destinations in Serbia. Another 100 million is planned for that purpose. We have a building of subways in the plan, etc., etc., etc. What's very important is I'm going back to part three, but I can't skip, and I can't spend my time not to point out that time is money, and unfortunately in this Serbia, there were a lot of those who spent our time, and with that time they spent our money. It doesn't matter who paid or how he spent that money, it's important that so far no one has suffered the consequences of spending time and money on Serbian citizens. Maybe it's time to start doing that. I have never tried to offend anyone here since 2012, and in all the times before this, since 2012 I have never used any inappropriate terms, I have never tried to offend anyone here, regardless of the different situations we have found ourselves in, but today I will use an expression that best describes the people who have left a mark on my party's president Dragan Markovic Palm and I will call them – the pot-throwers. Because that's exactly what they did. Whoever pays marine Tepic to do it, I don't want to go in, you know. Whoever covers Dragan Gilas, it will show time, but the headlines that appear on social networks tend to judge and reverse the facts. To be clear, Dragan Markovic Palma himself said – if the case is correct, this is resolved by a brief procedure. That's what I'm telling you. A man who has 100,000 members of the JS party behind him. That's what I'd say and anyone who's a parent would say. These things, if they exist, are dealt with by a brief procedure. I've been with Dragan Markovic for 17 years, since the founding of JS. So for those 17 years, I was present with a large number of celebrations that he organized. So I know how a man breathes. These celebrations are organized with different goals. The occasion was the opening of factories, investments in Jagodina, various jubilee, fame, celebrations, etc. I must say, for these 17 years, rare politicians are to admit on the political scene of Serbia that were not its guests, businessmen, ambassadors, and each time was a good host to all of them. He knew, when he said, you know when someone says – he has music, so have you ever seen a celebration and someone celebrates that there's no music, he's such a man that he always says – I'd rather give money to music than a doctor and a lawyer. I was a member of the delegation, we traveled halfway around the world when not a small number of times he knew how to lead a delegation of accordionists. Wherever we go, the people who were our hosts accepted him as a brother because of his relationship and behavior. You can expect any abomination and accusation in politics. I'm unfortunately the one who got the car started, could have burned down my house if it hadn't been for the neighbors to help me put out that fire, the question is how it would have ended. But the heinous things that the potty throwers have brought to his expense these days are not to measure with any situation that any of us here could have had in political life. That someone accuses you of being a paedophile, a man who is a husband, a man who is a father, a man who is a grandfather of five grandchildren. Guys, this has hit the bottom, there's no further. I watch these mounted interviews from people who are politically engaged in some parties and as a man who worked in the economy, I worked in the real sector, I worked in the bank, I was vice president of the municipality, several times a MP. So I have the right to assess who works, who doesn't work, and I have the right to give a grade. For that handful that gathered to support Marinika Tepic in Jagodina, I dare say you don't have Palma of mud would make it. So 70% of Serbia's cities and municipalities would wish they had a mayor like Dragan Markovic Palma. I know that the truth is only one, and this will come to an end, it can't last forever. Mr. Markovic was in the prosecution yesterday, today over 400 women filed charges against Marinika Tepic for all the insults she inflicted yesterday, but the stress and trauma they left these days, not only the family of Dragan Markovic Palma, although I claim it to be the hardest for them, but for the families of all women working in that administration, the way she called them, it is the stress that will never be erased. There is no punishment with which Marinika can be punished for correcting what she was talking about. I'm sorry I had to get off the subject, but that was stronger than me. I'm going back to the subject to honor your time. Mr. Minister, what matters most to you, the parliamentary group will vote for this budget. As much as I had the chance to look at him as a member of the Finance Committee and with my colleagues when we analyzed him, what is said most simply, I wouldn't change anything. Well done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5658	Thank you. I'm setting a break. We'll continue at 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5659	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. As I told you yesterday, there is a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, so I apologize that Elvira and I have been forced to be out of this room these few days. I want to give you official information that I scheduled a meeting today with parties who do not want to participate in the dialogue on election conditions for next Wednesday, 28 April at 5:00 p.m. at the House of the People's House. There will be parties who have declared not to want it, and all parties in the ruling coalition's National Assembly will be invited to participate in the talks, including, of course, the President of the Republic whom I called both as president of the Republic and as president of the Serbian Progressive Party, in which capacity they will participate and whether they will participate in it is to make a decision. Also, one more thing just for information, based on the agreement we reached last week, the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Jelena Zaric Kovacevic will make a plan, I don't know if you heard from the Minister of Justice, I spoke with Prime Minister Ana Brnabic this morning to start to realize the conclusion, to carry out as many public debates as possible, or to try to reach as broad a consensus, or an agreement on the announced constitutional changes, before a decision on whether to adopt an initiative to change the Constitution or not, or a proposal for a change of the Constitution. I apologize for taking your time. We're moving on. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Amos Ujhelji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5660	Thank you very much. Dear President, the presidency, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as counterpart Zoltan Peck has already stressed in front of the parliamentary group of the Duke Hungarian Union in his presentation as an authorised representative, we will support the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget for 2021 for more reasons. One reason is that the proposed rebalancing is responsible for the citizens, because it is formed to create an age based not only on the continuation of the pandemic caused by the coronary virus, but also on the economic recovery and growth of our entire country. Its adoption will ensure the continuity of development and social programmes on the one hand and the sustainability of public finances on the other. As Mr. Minister said with the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's 2021 budget, total budget revenues of 1,356 billion dinars are foreseen, which is more than 20 billion dinars in terms of budget amounts, and total budget expenditures are estimated at 1,737 billion dinars. The total fiscal deficit is 381 billion dinars. Responsible economic policy management and the good state of the 2020 budget created enough space for the government of the Republic of Serbia to help the economy, mitigate the negative effects of the coronary virus pandemic. A comprehensive package of measures has been adopted to preserve the liquidity of businesses and the population, new employment, and the preservation of living standards. The economic support package for the economy and the population resulted in a lower decline in the economy, especially compared to other European countries, and labour market turbulence was avoided. As can be seen from the figures of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the struggle with the pandemic of the coronary virus continues during 2021. Our parliamentary group welcomes the new package of measures by the government of the Republic of Serbia aimed at economic and population to reduce negative effects by economic activity. We believe that this, now the third package of measures, is being adopted in due time and directly helping businesses. What is extremely good is that the budget also provides for additional measures aimed at catering, hoteling, the tourist sector and bus carriers, or sectors whose operations are largely compromised or limited by measures to contain the epidemic. In the case of direct aid, this package provides additional resources to preserve the liquidity of business entities and extends the term of use of the loan with a guaranteed scheme. Our parliamentary group supports the proposed rebalancing since the package measures in 2021 includes citizens and businesses: 50% minimum earnings are provided for all entrepreneurs for three months, direct assistance is provided to hotels in urban areas, direct sectoral support for catering, tourist and rent agencies, hotels, independent artists, bus carriers 600 euros per bus. What we particularly support is the extension of the existing guarantee scheme to support the economy, the establishment of a new guarantee scheme to support the most vulnerable sectors of entrepreneurs. I would like to suggest to the minister that, given that certain banks have already used their limits under the first guarantee scheme, check the possibility that the increase in this type of support is the economy. Based on preliminary data from the Republic Statistics Institute, we can conclude that the decline in GDP in 2020 was only down to one percent, which is one of the best results in Europe. According to official announcements, the euro area will reach 8%. In the absence of measures and support for the economy and the population, the decline in GDP in 2020 would be much higher in Serbia, with around 5% of GDP. This data shows that it is very important to help farmers because, thanks to them and in these difficult times, agricultural production has achieved a 4.2% growth, with record yields of certain plant cultures. According to the finance ministry, the fiscal deficit will be 381 billion dinars this year. The SVM Group's position is that such a deficit is fully justified, as otherwise the decline in economic activity this year would be far higher, followed by a decrease in production capacity, including a decrease in the number of jobs. Also, without these measures, the recovery of the economy would be significantly slower this year. We also welcome the decisions of the National Bank of Serbia, which has taken additional measures to support the real sector. We particularly welcome the decision on moratorium loans, which has been made to preserve the stability of the financial system. As is known, the National Bank of Serbia has set a six-month delay in paying off liabilities based on credits for entrepreneurs who wanted to do so this year. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia's timely and coordinated measures prevented a major drop in economic activity during the pandemic. Inflation remained low, which is also very important in these difficult times. I would like to stress, fellow Members of Parliament, that we will vote in favour of budget rebalancing, because it allows for the realisation of capital projects that are of special importance to us. At the exposé of that time, the candidate for Prime Minister, and now the Prime Minister of Ms. Ana Brnabic, we could hear that the government will advocate the completion of the project of adaptation, reconstruction and construction of the National Theatre building in Subotica. The completion of the works is expected during this year, as the Prime Minister pointed out during Saturday's visit and tour of works on the theatre building. For the expected result of works on the National Theatre building in Subotica in the 2021 budget, no funds have been planned. The reason is rational. At the end of last year, 350 million dinars were transferred to the expense of the city of Subotica, which has not yet been spent. In late December 2019, it entered into the realization of the so-called 8/1 stages of works that include construction and architectural works, as well as equipment of theatre hall with stage technique. However, due to the pandemic caused by the infectious disease of Kovid-19, the slowdown of works, the repetition of public procurement procedures in previous years, some of the funds remained neutral, and is expected to bring an end to the eighth phase of the reconstruction of the National Theatre in 2021, which will invest around 18.5m euros in the project. For farmers, it is very important to build two overpasses at “the ypsilon of the hips, ” or they would have to drive more miles to reach their own field. The overpass at Makuta has been completed, and the preparation works have started on the Pacher overpass over the "pission of the Legs". Building the abovementioned overpass increases the safety of traffic participants. The value of the investment is 225 million dinars. The reconstruction and modernisation of the railway line between Subotica and Segedin will take place. It is an important project, as its realisation reduces the retention at border crossings and develops cross-border co-operation. This project is also important because a large number of our country's citizens from the north of Vojvodina work in Congrad County and travel to work and return every day. After construction of the railway, they will be able to travel by train and will not wait much at the border crossings. The increase is scheduled for the implementation of this project this year, with 500 million dinars increased to 2.4 billion dinars. I must mention here that soon the reconstruction and construction of the Horgos-Reska border crossing will be carried out, which is also an important project for our fellow citizens travelling to the European Union. The SVM parliamentary group will support budget rebalancing because it provides for the construction and reconstruction of very important infrastructure and water projects such as the reconstruction of highway parts between Horgos and Novi Sad in the length of 40km, the construction of a highway between Belgrade and Zrenjanin, the construction of a traffic station between Novi Sad and Ruma, the construction of a second phase of a water treatment plant in Kikinda and the improvement of the conditions for the ship's translation of the Tisa dam near Novi Becej. We will vote in favour of rebalancing because the government of the Republic of Serbia is making efforts to preserve public health and security, helping businesses to preserve liquidity and reduce employment, i.e. preserving living standards and the liquidity of the population continue to pay particular attention to capital investments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5661	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5662	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, Mr. Stevanovic, respected colleagues and citizens of Serbia, who may first need to hear what I intend to say. True, here you are, Minister, praised as a quality strategist, it was Voja Vujic who did so well that I would not dare comment more on the strategy, so before I understand it. But what is a fact, and that's what my colleague Milicevic said at the beginning, the rebalancing is, as unusual as it is to be happening at this time, quality. Why do I say that? It's more or less said, you explained in your opening statement, and somehow always make a problem after your opening statement of what can be said, and let's be very smart about what you've explained to us, but I'm going to really commend that, first of all, by the local patriotism that everyone has applied. I am impressed by the help provided for the non-Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija. I know what you were motivated by. I know that you spoke with the representatives of the cosmetian Serbs recently and that you heard these problems of theirs and I know that as much as someone, has accused us all of getting out of this and something that is a populist measure, I know that the motives weren't that. The motives were a difficult life and this 100-euro aid for all citizens and 200 for those unemployed for them were terribly important and very large. It's more or less large in that part of its financial value, it's large above all because they need to feel they belong to their country and that's all they need right now, much more than money. Because money, unfortunately, is being used limited. What is also important for them is the reconstruction, if I understand correctly, of the House of Health in Gracanica, which is somewhere in the center, if we exclude Northern Mitrovica, which may be harder to get enclaves than it is to Gracanica, and that is important. As optimistic as we were, when we talked about the 2021 budget, we expected to sort of deal with the crown, we can still see that both in the region and in the world, and at least with us, these problems are growing or shrinking. So those in the southern Serbian province, unfortunately, are condemned to what is called temporary institutions, which neither recognize the problem nor have a solution for it, except for the politics they deal with on a daily basis, they have no awareness of what they need for citizens. It is good that we will have a renovated home of health, because it is good for the Albanian population as well. I still have one dose of empathy compared to neighbours, who may be in even more trouble than the non-Albanian population, except for the security one, where, of course, Serbs and non-Albanians are more at risk. Another important thing that we talked about again in the 2019 budget and in the 2020 budget, you promised somewhere, it seems to me, when we adopted the 2021 budget, I don't think I remember it very precisely, that you would try to rebalance that culture gets these famous 1%, now almost historic, because I think it's been more than 15 years that culture didn't have a value of 1% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's more than great. Let us come one day, and I believe and I will pop out and that promise to bring us back to the level that Nada Perisic Popovic is talking about, which is that in the 1990s we had 2% of the culture budget. That's nice. We may not have been more cultural then today, but it's always important to invest in what's quality and what's promising our kids someone better tomorrow. When it comes to this economic development and your packages, which is the third in a row, eight billion euros, it seems to me that you said that the total investment, when it comes to helping the economy and the citizens, is simply a man who has nothing left to say. It is quite clear that the most important thing is to preserve the economy so that we can move on, as is important infrastructure and also whatever I say, it will be extra than what my colleagues said before me, I said already at the beginning they praised so much that even if someone had ambition, they would hardly have anything to add. What I particularly like about it, you didn't talk about it either, if I'm not wrong about "Expo 2020 Dubai" extra 250 million, I think the perfect move. First of all, because I believe that this story with the crown will end, or at least it will calm down, or we will come to collective immunity. The appearance of one of these events for Serbia is very important first because we have what to offer, secondly because I think it will attract tourists, thirdly, we will have a less obligation to help that part of our economy that was now the most endangered. Either way, even the Fiscal Council that criticized you in one part, criticised the help of the citizens, and perhaps I would criticise me from the position of the Fiscal Council, it is now measured through the prism of what anyone needs or doesn't need. You know, for someone, there's a lot of resources, because there's a lot of them, and for someone, they're very big. Well, even if we don't measure them, I'm going to say through the material again, they are measured through one care in these times that are very difficult. I think we're going to have a social dialogue on what is primarily our nation's mental state, and in that sense, it's very important that we all understand that we have to overcome these problems together. It won't help twice 30 euros, it'll make someone feel like they're taking care of you. It seems to me the most important message which is not a small budget expenditure, but what Voja Vujic would say seems to be a good strategist, you found a way to share it too. In addition to voting for rebalancing, if the other day when you announced the rebalancing, you had such a mild tooth as to whether the MPs would support you, you can see that they will. Almost all of them unequivocally said they would, and George announced that we would vote for it in front of the SPS parliamentary group. I will not continue to deal with the details above all in order to leave time for my younger colleagues who have been more studio friends and have entered certain sectors, will be engaged in investing in agriculture, culture, and when Jelena Mihajlović is in the O.R., I don't even need to talk about culture. It is important that every future rebalancing is like this and it is important that the budgets are planned in a way that surprises us with additional income. That's what's about to seem to me your plan, stick to it, and you'll have support for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5663	Thank you. Minister, these SPS and JS thank you more than I do, I'm worried. He wants something from you 100%. (Snezana Paunovic: You've never written a budget. It's a budget, then it's a good one. I apologize to the MPs for not including these, as they say, air conditioning because it is forbidden by protocol due to epidemiological measures. Seeing the reactions that you're hot in here in the O.R. Let's move on, People's MP Ana Charapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5664	Thank you, National Assembly President. Dear Ministers with an associate, respected citizens of Serbia, respected fellow MPs, the financial laws we are discussing this week and we will discuss and during the coming week are very important for both citizens and the economy, as well as for the whole country. One set of financial laws focuses on economic support for citizens and businesses in order to overcome the crisis more painlessly and efficiently, while the second set of financial laws focuses on curbing the grey economy, on more effective tax collection and, of course, on continuing to implement the digitisation measures. Before I look back at the Bill on Amendments of the Law on the Republic of Serbia's budget for 2021, I will remind another Serbian citizen that since the start of the outbreak, the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted even three economic packages of support to citizens and businesses totaling more than 8 billion euros, representing 17.2% of the GDP of the Republic of Serbia. So the state took all the burden of the crisis on itself to overcome the negative consequences. In March of last year, when the epidemic broke out, cold heads should remain and, as soon as possible, come up with an economic package of measures. What Serbia can praise is that we have achieved the greatest success in Europe, and our economic measures are the most comprehensive and broadest, given the size of our economy. What is often forgotten when economic measures are mentioned is their timelyness, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia had not worked diligently in the past eight years would have faced permanent loss both of production capacity works and of service capacities and would have huge consequences on the labour market. Given the speed of the pandemic overturning to the global economy, some forecasts are that in Serbia, there would be a decline of as much as 6% during 2020 and that it would take us as long as two to three years to get back to the pre-crisis level. Of course, that didn't happen because we reacted in time, we adopted the first economic package in April of last year, the second package in 2020, and here's the third package on April 15th of this year, so on Friday, thanks to our responsible work in the previous period. So, we've implemented economic reforms, we've achieved a surplus in the budget, four years in a row, we've implemented fiscal consolidation measures, and that's all given us room to welcome the crisis. Thanks to economic measures, we have managed to return to the pre-crisis level in certain key areas in August and September, which is a really great result, here I primarily think of goods exports, retail trade, industrial production and the like. How well we stand today is the best testimony that we recorded the smallest decline in Europe in 2020. As for 2021, our forecasts say we'll end a year with a natural growth of as much as 6%. Some economic experts say our forecasts are too optimistic, and I would disagree because our forecasts are based on real assumptions. So I'm starting to see growth in the euro zone as five per cent. I am starting with maintaining monetary, fiscal and financial stability in 2021, which will boost the inflow of foreign investment during 2021. We're starting with having record capital investments in 2021. The 2021 budget rebalance envisions as much as 430 billion dinars for the realisation of infrastructure projects. So investment and personal consumption will boost economic growth and allow us to end the year with an economic growth of as much as 6%. How resilient and strong our economy shows that in the first crisis, therefore, for the period from January to October 2020, we recorded a decline in trade exports of only five percent and in conditions when the economic downturn in the Eurozone was as much as seven percent, while in 2009, after the global economic crisis, we had a 19% drop in trade exports while the economic downturn in the Eurozone was twice as small as in 2020. What I also want to point out is that all money for the implementation of the third economic package of support, so all 57 billion dinars are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So we made that money ourselves. We're in debt, but unlike the previous government, our loans are developmental. The previous government was in debt under unfavourable conditions, both on the international financial market and on the domestic financial market, and all the money from the loan was pushed into consumption, which is really insane. We don't do that. We use credit funds only when we are in debt for the realisation of infrastructure projects. What I can tell you, and what the minister said at the beginning of today's debate, is that at this point in Serbia, as many as four highways are being built, in May, we start building the fifth highway, and at the end of the year we will be in a position to build as many as eight highways at the same time in Serbia. One of them is certainly the Niš highway – Pločnik – Merdare, which will completely change the image of the Toplic district, will change the picture of Kurzumlia from where I come from. Also, budget rebalancing has defined huge resources, huge money to solve environmental problems. So we provided three times the amount of money with a rebalance and predicted budget rebalance compared to the initial budget, when it comes to environmental infrastructure projects, i.e. to solve environmental problems, as I have already said. Also, we've singled out an additional 5.5 billion dinars to further help our farmers. There are huge funds to continue investment in the health system and precisely huge investments in the health system in the previous period have allowed us to become absolute record holders when it comes to immunization. Why do we all mention and stress the importance of infrastructure projects? Because every dinar invested in infrastructure stimulates economic growth, employs our economy, opens jobs, simply increases revenues to the state. It is the realisation of infrastructure projects that will allow us to end the year with an economic growth of 6%, which will result in a public debt not exceeding 60% by the end of the year, or a year will end with a public debt below 60%, which is below the level of the Mastrict, unlike many developed countries that already have three-digit public debt rates. Please, what country in the world can boast of such a large package of economic measures? Could either of us have imagined in 2012 that the state would be able to pay as much as six times per 600 euros per bus to all carriers, or that the state would pay all full-time citizens 160 euros, 100 euros in 2020, an additional 60 euros this year? Could any of us have imagined that the state would help all persons on the NSZ records with an additional 60 euros? So all unemployed people will receive a total of 220 euros? Could any of us have imagined eight years ago that the state would be able to pay all Serbs for KIM 100 euros and for the unemployed Serbs at 200 euros? None of us could have imagined that in 2012, because we were living in a country that was threatened by bankruptcy. As we stand today, there is evidence that in February of this year, there has been a growth of 59,000 employees, with 58,000 people more employed in February this year compared to the previous year in the private sector, while only 1,000 people in the public sector. Why am I just saying that? Because much more of our citizens are employed in the private sector, which is actually the goal of the Government of Serbia, to build a healthy system, to build an economy on a healthy basis. Also, what we have succeeded in the conditions of the crisis, so during 2020, is to increase the level of net earnings by as much as 9.4%. We also increased pensions during 2020. In times of crisis, we also built roads, railways, bridges, hospitals, schools, homes of health, hospice of hospitals, etc. Dear Ministers, I congratulate both you and all members of the Government on everything you have done so that we Serbian citizens do not feel the consequences of the crisis. All financial laws are indeed excellent and directly affect the growth of the standard of living of all citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the Electoral Group of Alexander Vukic – For our children, will support all the laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5665	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. I would only ask all MPs, including Milia, considering that we have, in truth, extended the time for debate, but at the same time, in order to be rational, I would just like to inform you that we will work, and because of the obligations of all of us and the minister, until 19.00 a.m. So, I would ask all speakers to keep that in mind, in terms of length of exposure, that as many MPs as possible take the floor. I'm sorry, Milly, for breaking up on you, but what can I do? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5666	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I will respect the time and my MP groups, and the time of the other colleagues, so that they can speak. Otherwise, I, as a folk MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, as a man who comes from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, is the Svrlig municipality located near the city of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia, supporting the bill and this economic set of laws because it is necessary for all of us living in southeastern Serbia and throughout Serbia. As for this rebalance, where people are given great attention directly, it's a big deal in such a difficult situation. Well done, ladies and gentlemen, it's an honor to you, to the state of Serbia, to honor this kind of thing, because this is important to overcome this difficult situation that is all over the world. One of the important things is, as far as I'm concerned, that there will be help in every segment of agriculture. Five and a half billion were allocated more to provide funds for those of our agricultural producers who did not receive subsidies in the previous period, and this will now be done. The funds have also been allocated to the new activities of our country as well as health care, the fight against pandemics, the provision of vaccines, the help of our homes of health. Otherwise, I can say that over great help is needed and small environments, to provide a larger number of perpetrators there, I mean specifically our doctors, our sisters, the drivers that could go to any land, to every household to make people vaccination, because our municipalities are dissipated, where the large population of old people and they can't reach the central homes of health. With all my heart I will support this rebalance of our budget, because it is the right thing, because it is working to help every man, which is working on building our roads, our railways, investing in everything that gives the future for all of us and our children and children. I think this rebalancing proposal is real, when someone looks at the side they say – this is impossible. This is possible with us in Serbia because our country is ready, because our country is doing exactly what it takes and it is normally more accent on every man, whether he lived in Srlig, the White Palanca, whether he lives in Prepolje, whether he lives in Tutin, whether he lives in Belgrade, Nis, Subotica. We give every man an accent, we help every man, and that's what we need to do. I will now take a few minutes to inform all my colleagues, normally to inform the citizens of Serbia, because we have spoken and supported the children. I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, I'm going to say this with enthusiasm, where our children are at Dušan Trivunac Dragos, it's a high school that has a high school, it's got a machine direction, it's got an economic direction, now, because of the number of children, some directions are now shut down, but those kids have managed to do their own activity, their knowledge, their natural talent, because life is beautiful, they've made a student campaign that can make something very important for traffic safety. It's a student campaign called "Resume Life". One of the boys, his name is Marco, he had a car accident. As a result of the accident, there were also serious physical injuries. This boy, along with his classmates from the third year of high school, they built a device that can be installed in the airbag, and when it happens, God forbid, some accident, some airbag opens up, at the same time the instrument that informs the police and informs the nearest home of health. It's something that's very important. It would be good for a respected minister to help our student campaign to do so through some competent ministry. It'll be good here in Serbia and in the world. Well, it's an honor to those kids of ours who are from Srlig, because they have a lot of smart kids, not just in Srlig, but I'm talking about my Srljijans here. There's another student campaign fighting to protect the environment. They know that smoking isn't healthy, but they've seen how many picnics are left out of smoked cigarettes, these peers are causing environmental damage. They have created a biodegradable filter, which can be used tomorrow, and there is plant seed in that filter, when that filter is thrown away, that filter is broken down, and in six months that filter is working out, and it's not doing any damage to nature. Otherwise, a cigarette filter like this when thrown into nature takes 25 years to break down and create a major ecological disaster. These are our children who have been able to invent, and they have taken the parameters, how many smokers, how much they need. We're not for smokers, we're against smoking smoke, but this is the possibility of these filters, which these kids invented, to protect that patent from tomorrow finding some sponsors who will support those kids to produce it in larger quantities. That's how we protect nature, protect the environment. The children who invented this device that's being built into the airbag, that immediately informs the police that a health care home is being notified when an accident occurs, it will surely save a large number of lives. Once again, dear colleagues, I say this out of my heart, don't mind, I invite all of you to support such children, such as the children of Srlig, who really have an idea, have an initiative, have the will and desire, they just need to find someone who will help them finance their products and get better. That's how we save lives in car accidents and save our nature. I will always support the suggestions that matter, and I expect that we will all support our children and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5667	The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5668	Thank you, President, so first of all, I want to point out that this budget rebalance puts health care and investment in health infrastructure in a high place and that's very important, because citizens' health comes first. We adopted the necessary measures last year. The health system worked very well, the health system met all the challenges faced with it, primarily because of the state's investment in health infrastructure, but also because of the commitment of health workers. I want to point out that we are continuing at the same pace. The budget will be increased by a billion euros thanks to the healthcare rebalancing period, compared to the 2019 periods. We adopted a package of measures a year ago regarding aid to the economy. When someone posts the question whether this package was a good measure, there are many ways to answer yes. That package of measures was extraordinary. When it was expected that due to the pandemic of the coronal virus of firing workers, the economy would stop, it didn't happen. I think that package of measures has contributed a lot. The very fact that unemployment at the end of last year was a single digit corresponds to all those critics that these measures were and how justified. As Social Democrats, it is very important for us, and we always show particular commitment to workers, and therefore we support this government approach, first of all with these measures, we adopt these proposals, of course, to help the economy, to avoid layoffs of workers and to be satisfied, because they do not remain jobless, to be satisfied and employers, because they receive funding from budgets, but to continue their business activities on the uninterrupted subject. I will remind you that wage growth was recorded last year, however, it would have been more satisfying if there had been a higher salary growth in the private sector than in the public sector, but that gap is not big either, so the private and public sectors are following each other in profit growth. This rebalance provides for the deficit to be 6.9% and I think this time, these difficult times are such that we don't have the luxury of working on a public debt reduction. It is now a priority to maintain the level of economic activity and it is very important that the total public debt moves within three-fifths of GDP. That's the level that won't go over to a risky field and where we'll be able to keep our business activities on the same level as before. Just to ask what would have happened if we hadn't invested in the economy. We'd go back a few steps. We'd have to make even more efforts to get the economy back on track. It is also important that the government has defined this budget rebalance even more money for infrastructure projects, for investments in this area, it is important that balanced regional development is represented. I especially care that this budget rebalance will provide funds for sectors where the biggest losses are suffered. It's tourism, that's hospitality. With this rebalancing, the funds that are defined for incentives apply to both tourist guides and rent agencies, and this is of particular importance. How important that is, I'll just say that in the year before the pandemic broke out, in 2019, that we had achieved a record in the field of tourism at all levels. There were 3,689.000 tourists in Serbia at the time. There has been an 8% increase in foreign tourists, and for the first time, we have had more foreign guests than domestic guests on our territory, and a record foreign exchange inflow of 1 billion and 436m euros has been achieved. This just shows that measures relating to the tourism sector are also justified. Simply, in this area, it was such a situation around the world that this area suffered the greatest blow due to the crisis. It is good that Serbia has not stopped in these difficult times and is promoting and preparing for the normalisation of international tourism transport. In these circumstances, the promotions are mostly directed towards the region, from which we have the largest number of tourists, above all, because they are our territorial closest. I am sure that tourism will show once again one of its elasticities, that after the crisis it will quickly recover faster than other economic branches. It's not the first time anything like that has happened. Serbia, of course, should be an attractive and authentic tourist destination, recognizable and well positioned on the tourist market. I would just like to point out that, too, to welcome the decision to allocate more resources to sports and culture, especially as it will be 50% higher in the field of ecology. Yesterday, we passed a law in the field of energy and legislation in the area of renewable energy sources, which also rely on ecology. With this separation, we'll be on one good path to address environmental issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5669	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5670	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, just to rely on the presentation of the last MP and to show you, I don't know how much you'll be able to see this chart, the participation of public debt in the GDP of all the countries in Europe. This red is Serbia. This yellow line is 100% which is the projected participation of GDP in the euro area, more specifically, in the euro area, it is projected that public debt will be 98.2% of GDP on average. This red is Serbia. So, with both the first and second and the third aid programmes and never more capital investment, we hold our public debt below 80%, and worse than we are from Ireland, Slovakia, Finland, Germany, Albania, Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, Austria, Montenegro, Great Britain, Cyprus, France, Belgium, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Greece. It is the best and greatest answer, the most important answer to all those who speak about how and how much the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is. We're absolutely stable, our public finances are completely healthy, our public debt is under control. When we need money, we go to the international capital market, we provide money and for the third aid package for both the first and the second and the capital investments, we don't go with that money in consumption, and it's a completely different economic policy compared to the previous regime, which is with expensive borrowing, and in 2011, I'll remind you, in 2011, the ten-year bond of the Republic of Serbia, which was then broadcast, had an interest rate of 7.25%, and we today, when we broadcast a 12-year bond, are at 1.5%, 1.6%, annually. So five times better than they are. Other important information I wanted to share with you, which is very important to you, as the number of employees has grown, the number of new jobs in our country in the past few years. As you can see, from 2008 to 2012-2013, what the previous regime left us, the number of jobs in Serbia has decreased. Here, camera, to see better. So we had about two million jobs in 2008, and then we fell to a million and 850,000 in 2012. Today, honourable MPs in Serbia, in January-February of this year, we have two million 184 thousand jobs. So, not only are we at a higher level than in 2008, but through the opening of the factory, what President Vukic has done so far has led, through the attraction of both foreign and domestic investments, to the fact that we have never had more employees in our country. That, of course, means for our budget that we get more income from taxes and contributions. That is why we also have money for new investments and for salary increases, raising pensions, obtaining vaccines, building hospitals, kindergartens, all that is necessary for Serbia's further normal and sustainable development and growth. I just wanted to share those two with you -- public debt, macroeconomic stability, completely under control. On the other hand, such aid packages, such a responsible economic policy leads us to the fact that from year to year, despite the pandemic of the crown of the virus and despite the biggest economic crisis, we are opening new jobs and the chart I have shown you on the exact figures of the number of employees in Serbia in January-February this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5671	Thank you. National MP Slavenko Unkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5672	Dear President, respected ministers with an associate, distinguished fellow MPs, budget rebalancing that we are talking about today is aimed at easing the consequences of the pandemic, increasing capital investments and continuing the construction of health infrastructure. The main objective of budget rebalancing is to implement measures to support the economy and the population. The funds provided for this third aid package are 257 billion dinars. We heard a good news yesterday that Serbia currently has 259 billion dinars and our liquidity cannot be questioned. The first two aid packages have resulted, and we hope that this third package will help, too, to preserve our economy, jobs and provide a good position for our economy after the end of this crisis. Serbia has again taken on the greatest burden of the crisis and we show that we are a stable state, that economic and financial stability allows us these concrete types of assistance. The most important side of the proposed rebalancing is certainly a strong increase in investment in infrastructure, as this is the best way to raise economic growth. On the one hand, we have a high level of investment in capital investments, so we encourage private investors, and on the other hand, by increasing wages, pensions and other incomes, we increase the purchasing power of the population and these are some two basic pillars of our economic stability. Capital investment levels are increasing by 78 billion dinars, so total investments in 2021 will be 430 billion dinars, i.e. 7.2% of GDP. Four highways are currently being built, and in the next few days the construction of a homing hospital in Novi Sad, which is due to be completed by September this year. Just to remind you that the city of Novi Sad has been allocated 250 million dinars for this project. It is largely a factory of vaccines, clinical centres in Belgrade and Novi Sad, and, of course, it is always a priority for medical workers. And for who knows which time, we make sure that the investments in health care are not cost but investment in the citizens of our country. Today, we heard from the minister that, compared to 2019, one billion euros in investment in health is greater and that is indeed a huge success. It is very important to take care of all categories of population and economy as well as last year. We have heard many times today all the measures that will be taken, and I would like to point out how important it is to help car carriers who are really hit by this crisis. The payment has already started for 600 euros by bus for the next six months. In Serbia, there are 800 private companies registered with 6,400 buses to receive state aid. According to some rough estimates, the loss of the carrier last year was about 90m euros. The proposed budget of the environment ministry increased by four billion dinars. It is a confirmation that ecology is one of the priorities of the government and that this year is a record for investing in ecology. It is particularly important that some of the funds will be targeted at capital projects, such as building a wastewater treatment plant in 28 local self-government. It is extremely important that our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, including children, receive 100 euros in assistance, and those who do not have a job of 200 euros in assistance. The budget rebalance allocated 100 million dinars for new tourist checks worth 5,000 dinars to continue to motivate citizens to fly in our country. A hundred thousand vouchers have been distributed since the beginning of this year. It is very good that agriculture has taken a significant place in the rebalancing process, so the agricultural subsidy budget is 42 billion dinars, which is 4.9 billion more than the projected budget. Most of these subsidies will go to livestock. We have one good news from this area, which is that the price of fat pigs seven days ago was 115 dinars, and from one day it was 150 dinars, thanks to the intervention of the state. Let's just remember that last year's agriculture had the most impact on the stability of our economy and achieved a record high participation in GDP. It encourages Minister Nedimovic's announcement that he is preparing a new Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act in the agriculture sector. It is no longer acceptable for farmers with one hectare of farmland and those with hundreds of hectares of farmland to pay the same or similar contributions. So we have a situation that out of 30 billion dinars for the payment of agricultural pensions, the state gives 28 billion dinars, and only two billion are provided from the insurance of farmers. In addition to all this rebalancing, our debt will not exceed 60% of GDP. Other countries, as well as EU members, are forced to live on credit. Just to remind you that one powerful Germany currently has 80%, Austria 90% of its GDP, and let's say, Greece is 200%. The Italian public debt is at 180% of GDP. One part of the funding needed for these measures is secured from loans from commercial banks and international institutions. The government's economic policy principle is to finance long-term capital investments through long-term funding sources. If our economic growth stays on projected 6% this year, and those first quarter indicators say it will be, it will greatly contribute to resolving the debt problem in the best way in the Serbian economy. And while the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we as Parliament work every day... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... in order to bring in the best way acts in the interests of the state and citizens, during the time of some opposition parties and their leaders daily deal with inventions, lies and vile bribery. Have we ever heard from them any smart suggestions, a solution to a problem or an age of ideas? Of course not. Their biggest problem is showing... (President: Excuse me, you'll have to conclude. )......................................................................................................... their inability to organize, to offer something to the citizens, but we can see it's not there. In the last few days, the president of Unity Serbia, Dragan Markovic Palma, has been the target of false attacks and bribery. I've been working with President Dragan Makovic for 12 years and I know how and how he's fighting for traditional values, for a healthy family, and I know how important it is for him and his entire professional engagement is based on family values. Mr. Markovic is the host of man and all of Serbia knows it. The people know there's never anything like that that can be prescribed by Palmi. This is an attempt to devalue everything Palma has done for the city of Jagodina, for the Pomorava County and for all of Serbia, but it will not succeed because it will have to explain everything they have said and lied to the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5673	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5674	I thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, fellow Members of the People, respected and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respecting, of course, the time of all my colleagues, I will really try to be as effective as possible, as effective as possible and to sublime my exposure in one shortest possible way since much has been said in the discussion today, the less rebalancing the whole of the rebalancing and all the reasons that led to it. Not to repeat what this is about, but at the beginning of the second quarter, but I will try as soon as possible to give some of my personal consideration to the rebalancing that is today in front of us MPs. What I see, I see exactly three reasons for this rebalancing. One is health care, our investment in hospitals, the purchase of vaccines, the purchase of equipment and drugs. In the shortest possible way, we have once again shown as a state that in difficult and crisis situations we also have a high degree of solidarity expressed for others. That's where I think of our neighbors with whom we selfishly offered to vaccinate and donate to them the vaccines that we acquired as a state. Also, the second reason for the rebalancing is precisely our economy and our citizens, not to go into the details of what he's leaving for, why. The Finance Committee itself was told whether or not it was justified or not it was justified to give the money back to the citizens. What I think, I think the state is showing this way, is giving support to our population in these difficult moments. The pandemic has been going on for over a year and I think it's a responsible policy, and I've already mentioned the acquisition of vaccines, that the state is primarily sending a message that the state is behind its citizens, that citizens have someone to rely on and that we all take care of each individual together, which is also one of the aspects that the state also needs to think about and work on, which is exactly, and that social policy. When we talk about the third reason for rebalancing, there are precisely these capital investments, there are construction of new highways, corridors, there are also hospitals that concern and health care, but there are also investments in ecology with 130m euros in ecology. I think it's very important, especially that it's an increasingly significant topic that speaks in some ways of raising our people's awareness to that level that we can also think about our environment. What was also said, and I would refer briefly to that, is just a public debt that won't go over 60% with this rebalancing. My colleague Vujic talked about it. Germany has a public debt of 80% of its GDP. As I said, we have not stopped with capital investments, we continue, we are witnessing that foreign investment is coming into our country and perhaps I am wrong, I may be young, I may not have had enough experience in economic science, but I see nothing controversial about it and that we even go over 60% of the public debt, if we are just investing in such borrowing, investing in profitable investments, investments that would go back through time and actually participate in reducing our public debt and raising the standard of living of our citizens. And when we talk about it, I think it's very important to say that our development chances are right in the agriculture that, as always, has shown itself in these crisis situations. The Serbian village was always there when it was difficult, and it has now shown itself. Our agricultural activities have grown. Also, I think our developmental opportunity and energy and I don't see anything controversial, I repeat, when public debt, for these very reasons, would invest in these sectors, and grow. I think it's both worth it and what would come back multiple. Also, at the very end, I want to confess, of course, Jelena Mihailovic will talk about it much more, but it is very important to point out that this rebalancing and culture have managed to allocate more funds. How important was the culture long ago and Churchill spoke, and at the time German planes flew over London, when they asked for how to raise funds for defence and when one of the proposals was just to be taken from culture, he said – what are we defending and what is the purpose of our defence if we take from culture. I think this is what we're showing that we're following this policy to take care of this crisis and difficult situation. At the very end, what I would like to point out is the gratitude of all our health workers who have been fighting a difficult battle and battle with the coronary virus for over a year. They're the only ones who know how hard they are in the red zones. What I concluded in my conversation with them and came up with the idea of giving myself that freedom, of course, by respecting the moment that funds should be found for it, but as one of the guidelines of thinking, the state has so far been building apartments for both the military and the police and for the BIA members. I think that our healthcare professionals in over a year have shown on the front line how important and how important and how much they make, and maybe one of the measures wouldn't be bad, how to keep young doctors exactly is to think about the state entering such a project of building apartments for our healthcare professionals. In any case, this rebalancing retains that component that we adopted in December and has exactly two components. One is investment, the other is social. I, as a MP and on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, can say that we will surely support this rebalancing day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5675	I thank the MP Markovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5676	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is a saying that the most beautiful fruits are the most delicious of their own gardens. We inherited a farming system that needs to be improved and it should lead, not only from field to table, but from science to table. So we have scientific institutes for warfare, livestock, vegetables, etc. We have seed production, variety seeds, we have fruit production, we have machinery production. We started producing tractors, and it's a round-up agricultural system that guarantees our food security from, God forbid, new economic and military pressures. However, the agriculture for which we stand out, that is what our farmers need to know, half a billion euros, the agricultural budget, is worth half a billion euros. During those yellow unfortunates and cockroaches, subsidies did not exceed 180m euros, ranging from 120m to 180m, and by 2007, it seems to me that the incentives in agriculture were hardly even there, if those incentives were not counted against certain individuals of the type Zoran Zivkovic and his winery. Today, agriculture, and I, of course, support the army, because the old Serb tripod is a village, an army of agriculture, and on that tripod, Serbia has survived for centuries. I also support military investment, especially in weapons, especially drones, missile systems, etc. which guarantees that what the plow and the plow earns, the sword can defend. Agriculture is no longer just a matter of agriculture, but also of demographics. Serbia is losing its population and may be more important, I am sorry that this is happening, but it is more important than all of it to be evenly distributed. We have over 1,000 settlements with less than 100 inhabitants, and when you sort it out, you see that it's mostly in the border areas or in parts along the administrative lines. If the population, and without agriculture, would leave that territory, if it did, then that part of the territory would be inhabited by other peoples, and I think what we experienced in KiM is a good lesson not to allow it, and that is why I believe that in the future we will spend as much money on agriculture as possible. At present, half a billion euros are set aside, which farmers should certainly know, but they should also know that our objective is the Common European Agricultural Policy and some budgets, if today EU members were to be the total allocations for agriculture from the EU budget of more than 40% of the European budget would be at the level of Bulgaria, and that would be around 800m euros for direct payments and over 300m for rural development. Also, European common policy is turning and investing significant resources in agriculture, so that our farmers should not be afraid of the EU, we should use all IPARD 2. IPARD 3 funds on our way to the EU to improve us and be prepared for this Common European Agricultural Policy, and I have already said that under the same conditions, European and our farmers, farmers for the EU, are on our side. In order not to waste words, we have shown as the National Assembly, as the Government, as President of the Republic, that we respect those who produce our bread, so that we do not live tomorrow from other people's crumbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5677	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5678	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at the very beginning of my participation in the debate on budget rebalancing for this year 2021, I would like to point out that as an artist in my profession, I am not possibly competent enough to talk about rebalancing from the point of view of financial experts or at the level of which other fellow Members speak, and I believe that in the financial structure presented to us and well appointed, Minister Mali and his associates, bearing in mind all the circumstances in which the economy, economy, our country, but also other countries of the world in the year in which the pandemic continues to last and leave its consequences to all sectors of society. I will respect the desire to be as concise and shorter as possible, and for this very reason I will focus on the projected assistance this rebalancing covers, which refers to citizens and businesses, worth 257 billion dinars, which represents something around 2.2 billion euros. It is an extremely important aid that citizens will receive from this third package. It relates, as already said, to all micro, small, medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, carriers, city hotels, as well as tourist workers, caterers and what is particularly important to me as an artist and to independent artists. I have to take the opportunity to point out that at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information on 17 March 2021, we discussed with the Minister on the Ministry of Culture's Labour Report and that, in the context of asking questions, the Ministers were apostrophe of the difficult financial situation in which the artists were found, because the epidemic and the whole situation caught them unprepared. The minister informed us then that he would hold a meeting with Prime Minister Brnabic and Mr. Finance Minister Mali in order to find a model to help artists, and at this time I express great satisfaction and gratitude for the decision to include the rebalancing aid to independent artists, decisions that will at least put out the fire for a moment when these people exist. Independent artists registered with representative associations will receive two short-term assistance from the culture sector, reflecting the government's desire to mitigate the negative consequences that the epidemic has left behind, since social distance measures remain in force, making it much more difficult to restore culture in full capacity, especially stage creation. If it hadn't been for artists and works of art, the quarantine days would have been much more dreary. We watched movies, read books, followed virtual exhibitions both domestic and world museums, listened to concerts of artists who were online, and I had the honour of participating in last year's project "Belgrade wins" and gifting my concert to health workers and citizens, and in this way both viewers and I survived another dark spring quarantine evening. For the amount that has been defined as grants to independent artists, 230 million 943 thousand dinars, someone may say it is only cosmetic treatment of the cultural sector, but with last year's help from independent artists of 211.7 million dinars, as well as investment in cultural infrastructure under the 20m-euro loan agreement, which we have already confirmed, in the Museum's Labour Act, which requires that museum work finally be given full attention, projects "Cities in Focus" and "Serbian Capital of Culture" whose purpose is the extremely important process of decentralisation of culture from Belgrade and Novi Sad on smaller cities and municipalities, all this together represents the beginning of investments in culture and potential abandonment of the status quo in financing and care for Serbia, which should be encouraging and mobilising for all creative creators without which this world may be a meaningless place. The saying says, "The beginning is half a job," and Mesa Selimovic: "What is the most beautiful thing in life? Desire, my friend." In a desire to improve and to start positive changes in the field of culture financing, its institutions and protractors will be understood as an inseparable part of the Corps of Society, cultural workers, creative creators, respected and appreciated, while the spine and the ham will thus be pushed naturally into the margins of society, where they belong. Progress in terms of the start of increased funding is on several levels. First of all, I must apostrophe the importance of identifying the funds for the final restoration of Hilandar, given that the budget funds are projected in relation to 80 million, increased to 360 million dinars, representing around three million euros needed for the final restoration and equipment of the monastery, which since 1198 has continuity, which has been given to Serbs on an eternal gift and which represents one of the symbols of the Serbian state and Serbian independence for which Stefan Nemanja fought. Furthermore, the rebalancing of funds to boost cultural production and artistic creation, as well as support for film art and other audio-visual creation. The funds went up from 830 million to a billion and 130 million. So, for 300 million dinars. To support the development of literary publishing, the funds were slightly reduced from 183 million to 178 million, which took as long as possible to avoid, as well as any other funding in the culture sector. Then, support for music creation was increased from projected 90 million in the budget to 95. Support for cultural work by socially sensitive groups increased from 55 million to 64 million, while support in the artistic game and theatre art in the rebalancing sector is still 50 million, or 100 million dinars. A more significant increase in the support of film art should also be sent to other sectors of contemporary creation, because you will agree that there is no good film without great actors, a high-quality script, but also talented composers, instrumentists and vocal soloists, without which no film soundtrek would be possible. This year's budget, by its rebalancing, identified more funds for the Ministry of Culture and Information competitions than in previous years, by going through the statistics of these competitions, noticed that in the last four years, from 2017 to 2020, there were approximately the same number of applications for various works of contemporary creation, as well as that two-thirds of them were always rejected. Reading the Commission's arguments and reports, I came to the conclusion that the projects rejected were not all less valuable in funding, but the Commission clearly stressed in its reasoning that the funds had been limited and that the allocations could only cover a number of projects that made it difficult for the ministry, the Commission to decide, but also the reported ones, because in the event of the rejection of funding for its projects or events, they were referred to the need for alternative funding methods, which usually ends in such a way that many projects are not even realised, and that they are extremely high. For this very reason, and from the point of view of someone who firmly believes in social justice, given that we are the finance minister Mali and his associate, and that it is always good for government representatives to hear the proposals of MPs and potentially good proposals from MPs, I would also like to give myself one that would concern any stages of prevention and mitigation of the consequences of the covids in the cultural sector. I believe that the next rebalancing should cover another round of certain competitions from the Ministry of Culture by the end of this year, making it possible for more applicants to realise their ideas and projects. The financial resources would certainly be allocated to artists and cultural workers, as is the case with this aid package, but thus would encourage both creativity and further motivate the cultural scene of creative work that artists also lack. Given the estrangement that the epidemic has forced us to do, I think it would be extremely useful for the competitions to be called for multidisciplinary projects, which, through a certain moment of unification on the cultural scene, could contribute to its maintenance in a faster recovery, in order to be ready to move forward when the crisis is over, and all together, it would represent our strategic commitment that culture and its protractors survive and remain creative and innovative. With this in mind, and for the end of my presentation, I would like to thank Parliament Speaker Ivica Dacic, all colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group, in particular Snezani Paunović and Djorđa Milicevic for the idea of establishing a parliamentary subcommittee, which would deal with cooperation with cultural workers, have recognised, supported, which we have jointly presented to the concrete initiative, but also with fellow MPs from the Aleksandar Vukic Group – for our children, especially Mrs Sandri Christmas, presidents of the Committee on Culture and Information, who understand the necessity of the presence of culture and recognise the importance of communication of the National Assembly with the people, and in this case artists and representatives of the cultural and art sector. In advance, I would like to thank the government's moral support for establishing a subcommittee on co-operation with representatives of the culture and art sector, because in this way we want to and we believe that we can contribute to the work, as well as to the Ministry of Culture itself, and if we need help, because we are all on the same goal, and this is progress and development of the culture sector, but also our mother Serbia in every sense. In my previous presentations, I have tried to highlight the importance of investing in culture and increasing the percentages allocated from the budget to reach countries in the region in this regard. With this rebalancing, we have reached a long wait of 1.01% for culture and an increase in the percentage that is allocated from the budget to reach countries in the region on this issue. With this rebalancing we have reached a long wait of 1.01% for culture, which is why I am very pleased and in the name of all artists I can confirm the same, and I really wish that it was just a volume of progress when investments and concerns about Serbia's culture are at stake. Of course, I'll support this rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5679	Thank you. The word is from Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5680	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, Serbian citizens, besides finding ways to protect the health of the population and preserve lives, which is also the first and most important goal of the coronary pandemic virus has set a major task before the world economy, as well as national economies, to protect the decline of economic development and to protect ourselves from growth of unemployment. Dear Ministers at the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have concluded that this is the budget rebalance of Serbia's future. We have concluded that with this budget rebalance, we will not only remove the consequences of the pandemic of the coronary virus, but also the simple struggle against it. Of course, it is well-designed, the public debt will be under control, which is a special qualitative dimension of macroeconomic stability and business environment in our Republic of Serbia. It is thus proof that at the time of the pandemic no investor has given up its investments, I am talking about foreign investors. The planned budget rebalancing comes first as help for citizens and the economy. Thus, it is proof that the state thinks about everyone, about every citizen and unemployed, retired, as well as all full-time citizens. I also need to point out the private sector's assistance. Of course, it is also planned to invest in health care, new hospitals to be built in Novi Sad, the completion of the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, as well as the Vojvodina Clinical Centre, health homes, as well as additional equipment and vaccines. Of course, there are also capital investments, as well as investment in our ecology, i.e. in the environment. Mr. Marijan Risticevic stressed how much it stands out for agriculture, as it will also be set aside for culture, sport, regional competitions, for tourism in Serbia, i.e. vouchers, development projects and investment in our army. Greater investment in the environment is also planned, as I stressed, science, innovation, as well as capital projects, which will contribute to stable financial growth in the years to come. In the first quarter of this year, the result was better than planned for 2021. We will achieve projected annual growth of 6%. The Committee on Finance held a discussion with the Fiscal Council on the public debt of our Republic. We're not going to make it 60%. Serbia's public debt with this budget rebalance is at 58%. I will list for Serbia's citizens how many countries they have in the region. In Italy 160%, in Montenegro 100%, France 116%, Spain 118%, Greece 220%, while neighbouring Slovenia and Croatia range between 85% and 90%. We got commendation from the World Bank, from the IMF that we're making now, we're signing a new engagement, as well as from Fitch Agency for good rating credit because we're stable inflation and course course. The budget rebalance, as I pointed out at the outset, raises large money for the private sector. This is the third aid package for the private sector. You know, dear ministers, that the private sector is a generator for economic growth and tax revenues. Thus, we will help target those who are most affected by this pandemic of the virus, i.e. the most vulnerable sectors. I won't list, about, my colleagues listed it, to keep time for others, but what's important is that there will be three minimum payouts, in fact all payments go from April to November and as far as citizens and as far as the private sector is concerned. I will always point out when I report on financial laws, especially the laws where the private sector is mentioned, because I come from that private sector and I know how much every dinar means to them, especially in these days where we all are. We will always give primacy to the private sector because our President Alexander Vukic has set goals before us. There are six of them, and I will always point out that one of the goals is to strengthen our country's economy, and we will not achieve it without a strong private sector. That is why in the day for the vote, before I say so, we also have a project "2025" to meet, to vote for Serbia's future, for strong and stable Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5681	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5682	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, we have a draft amending and supplementing the act on the budget for 2021, i.e. the budget rebalancing, which adjusts the budget for the current year. I would agree with the basic finding that this rebalancing has stemmed from the need to mitigate and address the economic consequences resulting from the Covid 19 pandemic. This rebalancing is important because it is mostly directed towards our citizens, our entrepreneurs, the economy sectors most affected by the Kovid 19 virus pandemic. As my colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group have already talked about, these additional funds have been allocated to investment in infrastructure, tourism, culture, but much of it is also intended to help our citizens, our entrepreneurs. What I especially need to stress is a certain part of the funds aimed at agriculture as well. In my previous exhibitions, I highlighted the importance of investment in agriculture, investments in rural areas. I would especially point out that with this rebalancing in Section 24 for the agriculture sector, an additional 5.5 billion dinars have been allocated. The vast majority of these funds, 4.8 billion dinars, are directed towards the Agrarian Payments Authority, and if we have in mind these are precisely the funds set for direct incentives for our agricultural production. This tells us that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has just had the activity to encourage and give continued support to the importance of our agricultural producers, the importance of our agricultural production, because it has come from developing every agricultural culture for the development of livestock farming and all other segments of agriculture being extremely important and state incentives, an important good price, as well as a safe placement of production quantities. We have had the opportunity to see that over the past years our agriculture has entered a phase where the affirmative participation of the state is noticeable is the presence of adequate measures that our country is implementing, and therefore I think it is necessary to continue with this practice, to continue with incentives that are directed at young farmers, to focus our resources on our farmers investing in the purchase of new equipment, the purchase of new machinery, because it is important that our agricultural producers move forward with modern flows. Only in this way will they be able to compete with farmers from developed countries and thus produce products that will be competitive on the international market. It is generally known that investment in agricultural cultures cannot give maximum, neither in yield, nor in quality unless we encourage our agricultural producers to invest as much as possible. I therefore believe that this incentive policy that our country has implemented has actually taken care of both small and medium-sized agricultural producers as well as large agricultural producers, and that this has produced positive results, as we see growing growth and production from year to year, but increasing exports of agricultural and food products. Incentives in agriculture are shown to be extremely important not only for citizens who deal with our agriculture but also for the entire food industry that lives out of it. In this respect, it is particularly important to stress that all these subsidies that the state gives, as well as the reimbursement of funds that enable our agricultural producers to compete in time, i.e. to be paid in a timely manner, as farmers can plan, invest and implement planned activities for the following year. This means a lot to them. That is why I would particularly stress that it is important why these additional funds in agriculture are exposed. When it comes to agriculture and rural development, it is also important to mention that many of the investments envisaged and budgeted for 2021, but this rebalancing also affects better and better quality conditions, not only a farmer, but all those citizens who live and work in rural areas. It's certainly big investments we're planning to make. These are investments in better electricity supply, investments in the construction of a telecommunications network. As the minister mentioned earlier, many local self-governments will build new sewers and, of course, investment in health care, rural hospitals, investment in school equipment, and infrastructure. In this regard, when it comes to infrastructure, I would especially point out that this particular rebalancing is where significant funds are allocated, and in this sense we all agreed together that building infrastructure is of great importance, if not crucial to creating a stimulating business environment. It is the best means to stimulate and raise economic growth. As a result, the importance of major infrastructure projects that this rebalancing is really great, and since I come from Western Serbia, from the Zlatibor district, is particularly important to us to invest these funds that have been allocated by rebalancing, which is the amount of over 4.5 billion dinars to build Belgrade-Sarajevo highways, i.e. over 800 million dinars to build a section of Preljina-Požega highway. This highway does not only affect the economic impulse, not only gives the county an economic impulse, this part of Serbia, but also encourages all of our citizens to think about how much faster it is now and how much faster and faster we will be able to reach certain tourist destinations of our country, and we know that rural tourism has been in great expansion in recent years and that such capital and large projects Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia contribute to making all these tourist destinations more accessible to all our citizens who want to visit our Serbia. In this regard, I think it is important to mention to our citizens that this rebalancing has added to the funds for improving and developing tourism, as well as that the funds for vouchers that will be distributed have been increased. This is support for domestic tourism conducted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to support domestic tourism, but also to encourage all of our citizens to spend vacation or part of their vacation in our Serbia. In this way we will preserve and maintain our tourist capacities and potentials during this health crisis. I therefore believe that all these investments envisaged by the rebalancing are extremely important for agriculture, because they help us to use absolutely all its capacities and all its resources, but help to make our country's agriculture more productive, more efficient and sustainable. As my colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group said, we will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5683	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5684	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today's draft amending budget law for 2021 for the following reasons. First, in order to provide money, i.e. to provide funds for the implementation of the third package of support measures for businesses and citizens to reduce the negative consequences caused by the Kovid 19 disease pandemic and for other reasons, in order to provide funds for additional investment in capital investment, health and health infrastructure. Serbia's first quarter of this year ended up with a much better result than planned. If we're going to count, the result is better for about 500m euros. The first two packages of economic support measures have really produced good results for the citizens. Serbia ended in 2020 among the countries with the lowest GDP decline in Europe. This third package of support measures that we are talking about today is actually up to another one, and it will allow it to just continue to preserve jobs, to continue with the help we give to citizens and businesses to survive the economy at this difficult moment when we face the pandemic. The third package of support measures is worth 257 billion, which accounts for 4.2% of our GDP. I really have to say it's a very large package that includes the following measures. First of all, economic support, three times a half of the minimum earnings for entrepreneurs employed in micro-small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as those employed in large enterprises that had a decision to interrupt work. Aid from the third package of support measures will also be granted to all full-time citizens of Serbia, twice 60 euros each, and all of our pensioners will also receive one-time aid from a 50-euro state and, of course, all of the full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our oldest citizens will receive two times 30 euros each. So the total aid from this package to pensioners is 110 euros. Also, assistance will be given to all the unemployed on the National Employment Service's record, 50 euros is the state's assistance and, of course, all the unemployed, as well as all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will receive another 60 euros. So the total aid for the unemployed through this support package is 120 euros. All our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija will also receive assistance, including children of 100 euros, and all unemployed citizens in Kosovo and Metohija will receive an additional 100 euros, so 200 euros will be aid for all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. We will have through the third package of support measures and sectoral support for all employees in catering, tourism, as well as for all independent artists they will receive two full minimum earnings. Also, transporters will receive 600 euros per bus for the next six months starting in April, and aid from the state also comes to city hotels worth 350 euros per accommodation, or accommodation unit, or 150 euros per room. The third package of support measures also includes an extension of the liquidity and rebalancing guarantee scheme to an additional 500m euros to the existing two billion to help the economy through a guarantee scheme where the state will guarantee loans, and also a third package of measures to help the economy also cover a new guarantee scheme, i.e. another guarantee scheme where the state guarantees for those enterprises that are the most vulnerable with an even larger part of the loan, therefore, for enterprises that had a decline in revenues of more than 20% in 2020. The reminders for our country's first and second aid package set aside a total of 704 billion dinars in the previous year. If we start to help the economy, we first in the first package had a three-minimum salary payment for all entrepreneurs, employees of micro-small and medium-sized enterprises. In the second package, we had two-time help at 60% minimum profit, now in the third package we have three times 50% minimum profit. If all of this is collected we come up with data that the state of Serbia has helped with 5.7% of the minimum earnings for each private sector employee, so close to six minimum earnings, plus these two full minimum earnings that will be earned by those most at risk during this period. Also, within the framework of the first and second package of support measures, the country has also helped citizens, 6.2 million citizens of the Republic of Serbia have applied for 100 euros in aid and has been paid to them, of course. We also had two times the pensioner's one-time aid in the previous year, one check for four thousand, the other for five grand. Also, the state helped or, let me say, stimulated all health workers and health workers with another ten thousand dinars. In addition, in the previous year, the minimum labour price increased, we increased pensions, i.e. we started increasing pensions by Swiss formula and we had a profit increase in the public sector of 3.5% and now 1.5% since 1 April. It is clear that with these measures from the first and second packages, the goal was achieved, that we had no layoffs, that we had no decline in production activity and that we had not closed down factories, that we had kept the unemployment rate at 9% of what it was and in the period before the pandemic started. I would like to note that all these three packages are worth close to eight billion euros, which is 17.2% of our GDP, and that Serbia has received all praises from international institutions, the World Bank and the IMF and other institutions for the simple reason that the measures do not endanger the macroeconomic stability achieved in the previous period. Now, if we look at all these allocations for the first, second and third aid packages, and all the additional redundancies for agriculture, for investment in health care, for investing in health infrastructure, for building roads and all the things we're talking about today, we come up with that the public debt of the Serbian state is up to 60%. So the state of Serbia will not be in debt above 60%, which means that we have the public debt under control. Besides, we have stable and low inflation, we have a stable dinar course. I would really like to point out that this support from the state of Serbia to the citizens and the economy absolutely could not have been able to provide that in 2014 we did not start the fiscal consolidation process, that the public debt that was 78% of GDP in 2012, we managed to reduce it to 51% by keeping responsible fiscal policies. So in previous years we've been saving, we've made a reserve, we've inherited more favourable loans, we've replaced some and we've paid off, and in this way we've managed to point out that we've had a surplus four years in a row, and that's how we've fully stabilised public finances. This crisis was only welcomed by Serbia for the reason that we had a full state register and the state could respond in due time at the time when it faced the crisis, to pay timely aid to the economy in order for the economy to survive at the most difficult moment. We're building a pandemic today like nothing's going on. The rebalancing is set aside an additional 88 billion for capital investments and a continuation of projects launched. Four highways are currently being built in Serbia. By the new year, we are expected to have eight highways in the construction phase. That, you will all agree, is more than 50 years ago in Serbia has been built. The entire network of highways will, of course, contribute to attracting more foreign investment, to open factories throughout our beautiful country of Serbia. Speaking of attracting foreign investment, I really need to say that in the previous year Serbia was an absolute leader in attracting foreign direct investment. At a gross amount of 3.1 billion euros, the state of Serbia has attracted foreign direct investment, and comparisons are almost twice as much as all the countries in our region have managed to attract foreign investments together. It's really a long list of projects to work on. The colleagues spoke throughout the day, I will only briefly say that the funds for the Moravia Corridor, the Frushkogorski Corridor, the Nis-Pločnik-Medare highway, Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, are being allocated from the rebalancing plan to start works on the construction of the subways, etc. Huge money is also being allocated to investment in health and health infrastructure. The rebalance defines money for the construction of a third Kovid hospital in Novi Sad. It's something that's current and what's most important to us right now. Serbia has shown in the previous year that it is ready and able to build two covid hospitals in Batajnica and Krusevec in just four months. I truly believe that the third hoof of hospitals, for which we spend money on this rebalancing in Novi Sad, will be completed in record time. I will also point out that the health rebalancing system also allocates money for the completion of Serbia's Clinical Centre, the Vojvodina Clinical Centre, for Tirshova 2, for the vaccine factory we're going to build. A great deal of money stands out, of course, for vaccines, medications and all the necessary equipment. Indeed, it is a fascinating figure that 417 billion dinars are allocated in this year 2021 for health care and investment in health infrastructure. No less important, I forgot to mention that at this point in Serbia, it is working on the reconstruction of 20 general hospitals, including the General Hospital in Leskovac, the city from which I come. For agriculture, an additional 5.5 billion are being allocated, an even bigger budget for ecology -- 16 billion -- in 22 local self-governments in Serbia will start with the construction of a sewage network and waste water treatment plants. Serbia has a clear plan, this is Serbia 2020-2025, and it is clear that by realising these capital projects, we will allow planned growth of 6%. When we look at this table brought to the Assembly today by the minister, where we clearly have a set of months from April to November which kind of help will be paid to businesses and citizens, and when we look at the money that's still being defined as a guarantee scheme for our businesses, when we look at the entire network of highways built in Serbia, maps of cities where the sewerage infrastructure is going to be done, when I look at the way the state fought and how it is now struggling to provide vaccines, to ensure that Serbia is building hospitals within four months, I really remain just to say that I am proud of my country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5685	Thank you. The word has a finance minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5686	Thank you very much. If you'll just allow me to resort to your exposure. We rarely go through all investment projects that are important for all Serbia, so I should just take the opportunity to go through, let's just say, the projects that the Office for Public Investment Management of the Republic of Serbia is doing. So it's an office that deals with reconstructions and construction and schools and health institutions, kindergartens all over Serbia. So, in this budget rebalancing, you have money provided for the reconstruction of the “Sveta Sava” elementary school in Batocina, “Emmunical High School” in Zemun, “Nikola Tesla” elementary school in Grocko, “Dusan Gavrilović Bačina” elementary school in Varvarin, “Branko Radčević” elementary school in Vladicina Han, elementary school “8. October" in Vlastotinci, High School "St. Kirilo and Methodius" in Dimitrovgrad, Highuk Veljko elementary school in Zaječar, Vuk Karadžić primary school in Kladovo, "Vuk Karadžić" in Kladova and Toplan, St. Sava elementary school in Kraljevnica, "City Toplana" in Kruševec, Mile Dubljević primary school in Lajkovac, High School "17. "Majkovac" in Lajkovac, the primary school "Svetozar Marković" in Lapovo, the primary school "Sestre Pavlovic" in Ljig, the primary school in Ljubovija, the chemical park in Prahovo, the projecting in Negotina, the primary school "Zivko Ljujic" in Novi Varoša, the primary school "Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj" in Novi Knezevic, the primary school "Brothership and Unity" in Novi Pazar, the primary school "Professor Brana Pavnović" in Petrovac na Mlava, the primary school "Dusan Vukasović" in Pećinci, the primary school "Ibrahim Keljmendi" in Presevo, the gymnasium in Procuplje, the primary school "Maj Jova" in Sviljnaj, Sokobanja Primary school "Mit Mitropolit Mihajlopolit Miha, the primary school "Maj" in the primary school "Maj" in the primary school "Maj Starović, the school "Maj Starović, the school "Maj" in the school "Maj, "Maj" in the school "Maj" "Maj" "Maj, "Maj, "Maj" "Maj, "Maj, "Maj, "Maj, "Maj, "Maj" "Maj" in the primary school, "Maj, "Maj, "M. Sport infrastructure – the town stadium in Zajecar, the town stadium in Leskovec, the town stadium in Loznica. From health infrastructure: Institute of Mother and Child “Dr Vukan Čupić” – equipment, Institute of Oncology and Radiology – equipment, Institute of Infectious and Tropic Diseases – and works and procurement of equipment, hospital in Arangelovac, hospital in Prokuplje, hospital in Loznica – phase 2, Institute of Infectious and Tropic Diseases, hospital in Vrbas, toplana in the Health Centre Surdulica, works in the Home of Health Novi Sad, Dom of Health Valjevo, Veljevo Gradište, Vrnjačka Banja, Majdanpek, Mladenovac, Ub, Gerontological Centre Belgrade – Dom “Karaburma”, Gerontological Center Novi Sad, Dom for Children and Youth Disrupted in Development in Veternik, Home for Children Disotica, Gerontological Centre of Subotica – Dom “Dudova forest”, Hospital in Belgrade, Vrjanska Domska Dom, Vrnica, Vrnica, Vrnica in Belgrade, Vr. Works – General Hospital Kikinda, General Hospital Piroth, Institute of Public Health Kraljevo, Tiršova, Dedinje 2, Institute “Biosens”, GAC “National Front”. So it took me a little time to literally go through all the projects that only the Office for Public Investments of the Republic of Serbia does. So all over Serbia, schools are reconstructed, reconstructed and built new health institutions, all done to improve the quality of Serbian citizens, to improve infrastructure, especially when it comes to education and health care for our young people, despite the pandemic of the coronary virus and despite the biggest economic crisis in this current certainly globally. So, despite this, you have money for all these projects for all of Serbia in the budget rebalancing. I just went through projects that are related to the construction of sewers, wastewater treatment plants. So every local self-government becomes a major construction site when it comes to basic infrastructure, and that is one of the basic elements of the budget rebalance that you are facing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5687	I thank the Minister of Finance. The word has a folk emissary, Ana Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5688	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected ministers with an associate, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have an essential issue ahead of us, which is the budget rebalance, because it is the plan by which we will deploy the money. We can freely say that we have taken care of the interests of citizens, their safety and their better living standards, but also of public interest through investment in capital projects. With budget rebalancing, we have allocated money by priority and continue with continued support for the economy and citizens in the fight against the pandemic of the coronary virus. This package of measures will help businesses preserve their liquidity, preserve jobs and help citizens during this difficult period. The measures are directed towards the most sensitive categories and justified and I will fully support them for that reason. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been responsibly facing problems for the third time, but at the same time continues to realise its original goals. The budget rebalance is also directed towards further reconstruction and investment in our country's health system, for the purchase of equipment, vaccines and medicines. How important it is for us to have the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also for the development of the economy, it also tells us that Serbia will return the purpose to the prominent Tolak Institute and invest money so that this institution of national importance begins producing a four-valent flu vaccine. We also allocated funds for a new covid hospital in Novi Sad, and only a few months ago we built a covid hospital in Batajnica and Kruševec. I am proud to say that the citizens of Rasin County now have one new and modern hospital that has hired more than 600 medical workers. Serbia also continues to build and rehabilitate road and railway infrastructures, linking municipalities and cities, with large capital investments. Of course, I will single out the construction of the Moravski Corridor, the first digital highway from Pojat to Preljina, which will connect central Serbia with Corridor 10 and 11. The Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure held a meeting with representatives of municipalities and cities on the Moravski Koridor route yesterday in the municipality of Cicicovac, and we have shown this importance and commitment to the construction of this project. Citizens of Cicevic, Kruševac, Trstenik, Barvarina can already see the importance of building corridors, because at this point there is a need for more than 1000 workers of different profiles. The construction of this traffic facility will increase the availability of municipal centres, economic areas and tourist destinations. What is also very important for the population, but also for the economy of this region, is also the editing of industrial zones. Our task is to create conditions for new investments, in fact, our primary task is what President Aleksandar Vukic is already actively doing, opening factories throughout the Republic of Serbia, hiring as many citizens as possible, creating conditions for people to work and support their families. Many did not believe that we would ever start building. Many have accused us and wanted to make sense of the importance of this project. The fact is that we have now denied them, as we do with our daily work and results, we deny our political opponents. By 2012, many false promises were spoken, lived at the expense of future generations, even today, we return too high loans, which were taken by those who would now rule again. The members of the yellow regime acted irresponsiblely towards the citizens and spent, in fact, what we didn't even have. It took time to stabilize public finances. Today, Serbia is a politically stable country, a factor in peace and stability in the region. An attractive economic environment has been created and we are today an exceptional investment destination. Citizens and investors feel security and believe President Aleksandr Vukic's policies, but also appreciate work and concrete results as well as clearly set goals for a better future for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5689	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5690	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will try not to mention percentages and numbers in my presentation, because we have heard this many times today, and Mr. Minister has very well explained this in his opening presentation, but his opening presentation has prompted me to focus my discussion on another topic. The minister pointed out that the three key reasons for this rebalancing are the battle against the coronary virus, raising standards and ending capital investments, and here I will mention that it is 7.2% of GDP. The first topic, fighting the crown of the virus, has just moved me to this story. An emotional performance by Mr. Minister on the Committee on Finance, when he was in the discussion, that is, in a debate with the President of the Fiscal Council, was an observation as to why he was spending so much money. The minister pointed out that in the first place were our citizens and their lives and their health. He performed not as a finance minister, but as a man. This is the story conducted by the SNS, President Alexander Vukic, this government and all of us MPs in the National Assembly. Yes, a fight for our citizens, for their future. Unlike those former regime rettles, I say rettles, because they are rettles that have dealt with themselves and with their wealth and now they honor us for something that they have brought us. They brought us hopelessness, brought us one big inflation, destroyed 400,000 jobs, shut down all the factories. We, today and in this budget rebalancing, pay back their debts, and their loans that they have raised under extremely unfavourable conditions 7% and above, interest. What are we doing? We're doing the right thing, domestically, and we're acting domestically. We think about the future, we think about our young people, we keep our citizens here, and above all, our educated experts. What we particularly wanted to point out, this was already said by Mr. Marijan Risticevic, which is that later investment with this rebalancing in agriculture, which means a lot to us and which is a great backdrop in our economic swing. There's a third package of measures on the agenda, so help both citizens and economic operators, and here I'm going to mention some percentages again. So in the past and this year we have provided 17.2% of GDP to help the economy. All these results stand. Whoever doesn't want to see, he won't always see, he'll criticize something because he has no idea. If it's a well-intentioned criticism, if it's a criticism with ideas, with new suggestions, I'd be happy to accept it. You don't see anything except that someone's sorry that someone's successful and that they're going to rule for the satisfaction of the citizens for a long time, because we're here for the citizens, we're not because of ourselves. I'll also mention those 65 sewer-infrastructure projects here. As a royal I will not be dissatisfied and jealous, for Kraljevo has one big project that is being implemented along with the European Development Bank, it is a 21 million-dollar purifier. It's something capital, not just for the city of the King, but for our Republic. At the end of the year when the budget for 2022 is made known, and then I will insist that a project that I hope will be made up by then of project documentation in Krljev, which is water supply from the water supply system of the Lopatnica water, that it is something important and very important for the Republic of Serbia, such as water supply is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5691	Thank you. The word has a finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5692	Thank you very much. I'm just going to lean on your exposure, and you reminded me well of yesterday's meeting on the Finance Committee, or it was two days ago, if I'm not mistaken. So, two of the most important things I want to point out and emphasize in front of all Serbian citizens. Two comments were the most important Fiscal Council when it comes to budget or budget rebalance. They say we're going with a bigger deficit than planned. And the greater deficit is the consequence, as you have had the opportunity to hear, of the third aid package and of the huge never-greater investment in both health and travel and railway and in the entire infrastructure of our country. I just told them what you people wanted. With the first and second aid packages last year, we saved our factories, saved our jobs, kept people a job, made sure they had a safer future, to mitigate the negative consequences of Kovida-19. Well, how much would it cost us if we let the factories close, if people were out of a job, if we hadn't helped them through the payments of three minimum earnings, in fact there were more minimum profits and guarantee schemes and moratorium to pay off the loans. Then what would we people do? I didn't get the answer to that question. Well, how many years would it take us to reopen all those factories, get people back to work, if ever that was possible. How much money would that take? Therefore, an absolutely clear commitment by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to take over the biggest burden of the crisis, to help both businesses and citizens, to help all to minimise the negative consequences of Kovida-19. I said more than that, health doesn't have a price. It absolutely doesn't occur to us that we don't have any money and that we don't have secured vaccines or good hospitals, or equipment in those hospitals, or drugs and all that is necessary for the health of our fellow citizens. We're aware ourselves, we're all aware that we did a huge thing with the timely purchase of the respirator last year, with all the equipment that was necessary, now the vaccine and everything else that was necessary to fight the coronary virus. The other thing was, I had to react and well that you reminded me, the biggest or second biggest complaint of the Fiscal Council was – well, well, why are you helping all citizens of Serbia? We don't see any reason to help everyone? We see no reason to pay these 100 euros last year or to pay off now twice 30 euros or another 50 euros to our oldest citizens? And then they tried to justify that if you give money to the citizens, to get into the economic theory now, then the multiplier of it to GDP growth is one, one coma one, and I don't know, if you were to invest in investments, then the multiplier is larger. I made it clear – people, not citizens of Serbia multipliers. It's about living beings, it's about our fellow citizens, it's about our desire to help everyone as much as we can, and with 100 euros last year, and as much as it meant to one four-member family with four members who are over 18, so, slowly, as little as possible, to mitigate and negative consequences of the coronary virus, and on the other hand to extend optimism among citizens and to say, yes, the state is here, we're safe, we're here in this difficult time to support you, to help you and to work together, responsibly and solidly over this pandemic of the coronary virus. My answer is that the state will always be there for all citizens of Serbia, we will always find a way to help everyone, as we are helping through this third package, as we helped through the first two packages last year, always trying to keep our factories safe when it comes to the crisis, to keep our jobs, to continue attracting investment and to open new jobs and to make sure that people's health is always in the first place – to get vaccines, to invest in health infrastructure, one, second, here goes the third Kovid Hospital, we will be one of the few countries that have their own vaccine factory. So, we want a different Serbia, we want a successful Serbia, we want a Serbia that is a winner and we want Serbia that, when this pandemic of the coronary virus is over, will be the first in Europe, not only by economy but also by education and by health and by all the other parameters that we have lagging behind for years and decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5693	Thank you. The word has Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5694	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today is indeed a pleasure to talk about such a subject, as it is a positive rebalancing, a rebalance that is balanced, realistic, a rebalancing rebalance that paints Serbia's stability, I would say. With this rebalancing, we confirm that thanks to heavy and unpopular measures, reforms over the previous years, Serbia today is a stable country, a regulated country. Certainly, you will agree that it is a stable and sustainable budget and that these reforms have now been created precisely on the basis of income and savings. As the minister said and as colleagues and colleagues have said, this rebalance will establish aid, both for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the economy, but it will continue with capital investments, will continue to invest in the infrastructure, four highways that have been started will end, but works will open on four new ones as well. The state once again shows that the time of the robbery and the 2000s is fortunately behind us and that it is a responsible policy, primarily the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is responsible for everything we can do now. From there and support from citizens, who see that the confidence shown by the SNS in 2012 is justified and that support is growing from day to day because they see that this is the policy of the future. This way, we really shouldn't be surprised by all the aggression of those who ruled until 2012, because we're all aware of what kind of state we found in 2012, what they did, and then I guess now, trying through some new alliances, some supposedly newly founded parties, trying to get back into power, offering some plans, and in fact we all know that such plans don't exist, because we've had a chance to see what they've done by 2012, leaders who are now hiding behind some allegedly new faces. They showed they didn't have a healthy idea. What is quite certain is that they would now find themselves in our place and spend this budget, that is, this budget rebalance, but certainly their spending would not be like our plans and plans of our government. When it comes to this rebalancing, I believe that they would have nothing constructive to say and to suggest, they would have nothing to say, because they are, you will agree, the on-call haters who only know that they are critical and that they are false, so that it is too high and that we are talking about it, because the citizens of Serbia know well who they are, because they are the same yellow Dosmanlian enterprise that ruled until 2012, and now they are just being translated into some alliances and they are no longer known how many of them there are, through some small parties, but they would certainly unite one moment, if they were to have a chance and once again ruled even worse and filled their pockets even worse than they did by 2012. What makes me particularly happy is that our government, our republic, our president resists all these provocations, and they continue to work and build the future of Serbia, and simply not to look after all those haters, who only know that they criticise and nothing else. As a Kruševljanka, I am proud that here we will allocate funds for the completion of the work of the Moravia Corridor, and all of us who live on this move between Pojat and Cačka, we know how important this investment is, because this move operates over 21,000 business entities, which means that it will have a decrease in the purchase of repromation, funds and will open space for new investments, and for new jobs, and among other things, the root of the Morava River will be arranged, which has been a major problem earlier, especially for the people of Triesteniks. What makes me particularly happy is that, as a doctor, I can say that in 2021, a lot more resources were allocated when it came to health care, so the fact that we had 290 billion in 2019, and today as much as 417 billion in health care, is enough data. I will also remind citizens that once ministers from the Dosmanian government, not believing in the health care they are taking, went to operations outside Serbia, for routine operations. That's how much she says about them, and really, like some colleagues used to say, it never happened again. One more thing about health care is that we are also looking forward to building a new hove of hospitals in Novi Sad, because we are witnessing that this pandemic has indeed taken a wave and that we have been fighting for over a year now, but first of all I want to say that we have one responsible state, the responsible president who has managed to provide even four available vaccines, available to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, safe vaccines, so that we can protect ourselves and get back to normal flows and normal life as soon as possible. What I would like, at this time as a doctor, as a citizen, also as a representative of parliament, to call on the citizens of Serbia, those who did not do so to be vaccinated and that, indeed, the sooner we get that collective immunity, which requires more than 60% of the citizens to be vaccinated. We have a chance, the vaccines are here, and there's only one good will missing, so we can all do it and end up with the mean Covid 19. By building the Kruševac Kovid hospital, they followed a variety of stories, writing, and I would not even like to name these calls to politicians, who were trying to disprove, but we have seen now, especially in the last wave how much Kovid Hospital in Kruševec meant and how many lives were, above all, saved, so that I am glad to see all this work done. What I'm saying is, this is that these on-call haters who want to return to power at any cost but without programs and without ideas can still hate us, and we, together with our Government of the Republic of Serbia, will continue to work and build in Serbia for the future of our children, the future of all children, because, I will repeat once again Serbia has shown and always will, hopefully in the next period, show who it wants to go forward with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5695	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5696	Mr. Minister, it seems that you are introducing some new rules, in general, on the functioning of the budget system. So far, finance ministers were the ones who were raising funds, and their government counterparts were spending those funds, and they were mostly portrayed as something very good, and the finance minister was a state tax collector on duty who was not particularly fond of Serbian citizens. But now we have a chance to see that the Ministry of Finance has a different attitude towards citizens. I totally agree with you when you said that behind these numbers are our citizens, their lives, their families and their fates. That seems to me the basic thing that many critics, all of what the government is doing, the president and you as ministers don't want to see. That's, I think it's the biggest problem. Here, when this session of the Finance Committee was held, the first news was that the state was increasing the deficit, that no aid should be given to citizens and that it should not be invested in defence. It was the first news, and the first news was, in fact, passed on by estimates of our Fiscal Council, which apparently failed to overcome the fact that the favorites who co-operated with Bozidar Djelic and the rest of the company would never come to power in Serbia again. Of course, as they call it, Grandpa Paul and so on, he cannot be over the fact that he is no longer a member of the Board of Governors, is neither an assistant minister nor that CES Mecon can no longer sell out Serbian property and no longer reconcile with it. When I read this review score, Mr. Minister, I kept looking, watched the Fiscal Council, persistently asked for a piece of the article on "ER Serbia" when we passed the budget law for 2021. It seems to me that Uncle Paul, Grandpa Paul, as they call him, has given up at least when it comes to "ER Serbia" is involved in politics and that he is sending us political pamphlets here to the National Assembly. But it's not quite like that yet. It's enough to read just a few things. Usually, citizens don't care, usually those who report what the budget is. Often those who don't understand at all report it. That's why the assessment is that we have non-selective aid, that we have a major increase in the area of defence and then examples of why it shouldn't be. Now, I'm going to read a part that says Fiscal Council or Uncle Paula, Grandpa Paul, as they already call it -- the increase in deficits in Central and Eastern European countries, is mainly within the range of 1-2% of GDP, while in Serbia it is 4%. In doing so, Serbia pre-rebalanced as a country that planned a lower deficit than the average of Central, Eastern Europe, and now became a country with a higher fiscal deficit than the average of Central Eastern European countries. It is necessary that, indeed, if someone wants to report the budget well to investigate everything he wrote. We MPs, too, need to investigate, to see if all this is true. The fiscal advice said, who doesn't have a brain, he'll take it first, but there are those of us who have brains. Well, we looked at some comparison tables, and Serbia has about 14-15% for 2020 and 2021. The Czech Republic, for example, had 30% pre-crisis 44%. The difference is one percent point. Or, let's say, here's our neighbor, Croatia 72.77% in the pre-crisis period, now there's 86.3% planned, and I think there'll be more, which is with us side by side of the Central and Eastern European countries, as they say. Here, Hungary 65.5%, and it is planned to end in 2021 with 80%, and Hungary is near us, or Austria, the Eurozone country, 70.5% pre-crisis, now 87.2% the same 15%. Here, Slovenia, 65% pre-crisis, now 80.5%. Romania is 35% pre-crisis, now 52%, that's almost 20%. Slovakia 48.5%, now 64%, that's 16.17%. It is not Serbia at all at the top, but on average, Central and Eastern European countries, compared to a public debt that has increased in the years of crisis. It seems to me that this part of the text written by Uncle Paul, Grandpa Paul, is a purely political pamphlet. You can see that as soon as you look at the next side. He says this - this is about helping our citizens and economics. Another extremely expensive and irrational measure that is specific to Serbia, as it is a non-selective payment to help all 60-euro adult citizens, for all pensioners increased by another 50 euros. The problem with this measure is that there are no resources available to it in the budget. This means that all taxpayers first have to be in debt, and then at interest to pay them off. Be careful, the MP can say that all taxpayers or citizens are in debt, some political commentator, an analyst in some newspapers or in some means of public information, but also others are involved in politics, and MPs and political analysts. The fiscal council must not deal with politics, and this assessment is purely political, and this is seen in the text that he said. You know what the biggest problem is? The biggest problem is that for years until 2012, we have owed each citizen of the Republic of Serbia up to 78% of GDP with interest on which the state was in debt, and today neither the natural person with the worst credit rating in Serbia is in debt with 7% or 8% interest. You know why? There was no other way, but to get Gilas to his famous 700m or 800m euros that he took through RTS. The fiscal council is bothered by the fact that the state exists for its citizens and wants to help its citizens to cope as easily as possible, firstly, with the health crisis that always pulls away the economic consequences, meaning it's not good, and when this mangup lapped 700m euros from the Republic of Serbia's budget through RTS, which was good, Grandpa Paul, or Uncle Paul, it wasn't there then, he didn't have any grades. What's a non-selective approach? He says we don't have to give everyone but just one particular population. Let's just be clear, regardless of the financial and economic status of our citizens individually, one such health crisis leaves serious consequences, not only for the health but also for the mental health of every human being and the goal is to show citizens that there is a state that cares about them and helps them to take these measures, which have been going on for a long time, as easily as possible, survive and survive. That goes all the way, Mr. Minister, to tell you that you weren't allowed to plan for the 2021 budget, so what we're changing now, they tell you that you shouldn't have planned exact revenues from excises, because you were afraid of the possibility of Serbia introducing a new state of emergency. Here, that's what they say in the evaluation of the Fiscal Council, and that's why you planned 170 billion dinars of excise tax on oil derivatives. That's what our fiscal advice says. Let's look at how planned it was in 2020 before the crisis and before we knew about the state of emergency. 168.5 billion are planned. We didn't know it was going to be a state of emergency in 2020. We planned 168.5 billion. You planned in 2021 170 billion and 100 million, and 173 billion were achieved, in fact planned by 2021 with this rebalancing three billion increase. You know why that bothers them? Because a good part of these excise incomes, tax revenues and all other tax payments are the result of those measures that you implemented during 2020, so many attacked euros per citizen, so many underpaid minimum earnings, that's the result and passed on in 2021, but that's what Grandpa Paul, Uncle Paul, won't say. That bothers him. It is also mentioned why the economy that works well helps. But, people, anyone who, first of all, is serious people who do business, use that help exclusively for their employees, and we allow them to invest in more modern production and job creation and to increase the competitiveness of the economy that is in Serbia, nowhere else, but in Serbia, to be even more competitive, to have even more workers, but this is also the Fiscal Council that will not see. They're the only reason why it's increasing for the defense, as if we don't see what kind of world we live in today, and we don't see how much the globe is today an insecure place, but certainly most of that money will go back to our purpose, where our citizens work, where our people work, from which our people will receive the wages, but that's what the Fiscal Council won't say again. To them, every move that the government has, which Aleksandar Vukic, as president of the Republic, creates by authority, wants to help both the government and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia... They do not make sense and should be attacked in every way, because they see that Serbia is much richer now than in 2012 and would again like to sell out state property, such as Uncle Pavle, Grandpa Paule worked while he was an assistant to Bozidar Djelic or while he was in the National Bank Governor's Council or that Gilas can only get back to himself now, since we have more money, much more than 700m euros. I think you should continue to show that the Government of the Republic of Serbia primarily cares about its citizens, about its economy, and leave the Fiscal Council to us to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5697	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5698	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, just so I can relate to the exposure you've had the opportunity to hear. So, once again last year, at the time of the biggest economic crisis, we had, remember, 45 days of total closure of our economy. The payment of domestic value added tax in 2020, in number, amounted to 372.5 billion dinars, a year earlier for the whole of 2019 amounted to 354.4 billion dinars. So, for 18 billion dinars, we charged more VAT last year than in 2019, and in conditions where we had a crown, full or partial closure and all the other difficulties we faced during last year. This would not be the case, we would not preserve economic activity in this way, and paying a value added tax is a direct indicator of how healthy your economy is in terms of transport, in terms of maintaining stability, economic activities. If it hadn't been for that, we wouldn't have had it, if it hadn't been for the first, second aid package, if it hadn't been for this support of the state that we gave to both citizens and businesses. So it's pointless for anyone to question the justification of the first, second, third aid package in the way we do it. We wouldn't have had the slightest drop in GDP in Europe of 1% if it hadn't been for both the first and second aid packages, just defined and implemented in the way we defined it. And there's no one here to tell us. We are better than a large number of countries in Europe, at this very moment, and the health of our public finances and GDP that is growing and preserving jobs and preserving production capacities, and that our public debt is below 60% of GDP, despite such great help. So these are the facts. These are economic indicators that you can't just ignore and that's why we're going with a lot of optimism and security and a third package to help businesses and citizens with this rebalancing and we're going to go to never more investment, because these investments will push our GDP and push on, not only the quality of life of Serbian citizens, but also the development of our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5699	Thank you. The word is Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5700	Dear Ministers Mali, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, the proposed third aid package and proposed rebalancing represent a strong impulse of the state to citizens and economics on the pandemic with the coronary virus, are the best possible response to all mentalists and all critics to the challenges Serbia successfully faces. The first two aid packages were intended for citizens and businesses to survive this difficult period, the most difficult in economic terms after World War II, and the third package with the proposed rebalancing is already encouraging businesses to keep workers in their jobs by the end of this year and encourage the economy to open up to new markets when this crisis ends. The first two aid packages turned out to be well designed, while our economy has shown resilience and toughness, and I believe this third rebalancing package will also fulfill its purpose. In all this time, Serbia has successfully fought on two fronts – both in business and in health, and it has significant results on both. While much more developed countries are in lokdown, they have problems obtaining vaccines, Serbia successfully carries out population vaccinations and at the same time opens factories of the world's largest firms, keeps jobs and raises salaries and pensions. Today in the world more and more talk about Serbia as a successful model against the crown of the crisis and today it is said of Serbia in the world as a country where hospitals are being built, where vaccines are being received by choice and implemented according to a successful model of digitisation and today our great satisfaction is being talked about by Serbia, which will be one of the rare countries in the world that will produce its vaccine, and more and more is being talked about the economic success of Serbia. It is widely known that Serbia last year had a bPD drop of only 1%, which I recall was the best economic result in Europe and what has been said several times today with the right in this high house. However, these results are not only in GDP. In 2020, Serbia managed to increase industrial production by 0.4% compared to last year's year's 2019, we managed to have 50,500 more jobs than last year, we managed to keep inflation to 1.6%, we managed to raise salaries and pensions, pensions by 5.9% this year. The average salary in January was 536 euros, with the goal of making the average salary in Serbia 600 euros by the end of 2021, and in 2025, 900 euros. Also, public debt is under control. The fact that the budget for ecology is higher by 50%, that 3.4 billion are invested in 22 local self-government for the construction of sewers and treatment plants is something that we could only dream of a few years ago or just fantasize about, that it invests billions more this year in health only compared to the previous year, that capital investment is currently investing 7.2% of GDP, which is 1.5 times higher than in 2010 when capital investments invested 3.1% of GDP or a third more than in 2019 when capital investments were invested in Serbia 4.9% of GDP. All this is about our economic security, our political stability, Serbia's attractiveness for investment and better image. The fact that eight highways will be built in Serbia this year, four more are already under construction, that Serbia's citizens are due to apply for new incentives and new state funds in April 28th, the fact that after 2015, we first recorded that our young, educated people from the world are returning from Europe to our country compared to how many they go, are of immeasurable importance. The proposal to end this year with 6% of GDP is very important and I'm glad we heard from you ministers today that real indicators are going that way. Why does it matter? Therefore, in my opinion, that even citizens who have not felt the effects of the measures so far will have the opportunity to experience the effects of economic consolidation. What I find very important in the next period is that, and not the direct jurisdiction of your Minister Mali, the sooner the situation allows us to return the children back to school, to the bench for socialization and a lot of factors, to return the students to colleges for teaching, for the sake of practice, I find it very important. All these are the facts that show that Serbia is doing well, headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, with all these challenges, to show that the health of the nation has no price for us, to fight for the economy, never more investment and a better life for the citizens of Serbia. That is why I will support the proposed rebalancing in the voting day with all the accompanying laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5701	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5702	Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, the debate on the budget rebalance proposal in the old one tells us first that the unpredictable time in the world is still going on. This unpredictable time refers to public finances and monetary policy and it is nothing unusual for the conditions of the recession that exists in the world today. The whole world is globally in serious economic trouble. We did not have budget rebalances from 2014 to 2020, and in that period from 2014 to 2017 we changed Serbia's economic picture, made Serbia look completely different. We were smart enough, we knew we could and realistically predict and realize both planically and rationally in difficult times. For every country that goes through that period of economic change, it's certainly not an easy thing, it's a big challenge. From 2017 to 2020 we drew fruit from economic growth and development, we had a great economic surplus. Practically, the citizens of Serbia, the economy, the whole state had benefits. When difficult economic times come and difficult times come, then the first thing you see is problems and the truth. It's true to see what's done. When you work and you don't do hard-time results, they get here much sooner. The world's disease, it's actually snow, and we can clearly see traces in that snow. In both health care and the economy, Serbia has reason to be proud today. A year – a year and a half ago, when the pandemic started and the economic crisis started, each of us individually expressed its opinion to both the Government and the Ministers and the Fiscal Council, not only in Serbia, but throughout the world and teachers of economic colleges, businessmen, citizens. When you look at it today after a year, a little bit of what they were saying came true. The results in the Serbian economy are high, but the results in Serbian health are even higher. We, Ministers, in the economy, actually raised hope, raised hope in economics and health care, and health workers saved our lives and therefore thank them immensely. In fact, our policy has narrowed down over the past year to two anchors – health care and economics. We've done everything in health care, since we're talking about the budget, to provide enough resources to buy hospitals, to buy vaccines and masks and respirators and gloves, and to hire thousands of new healthcare workers to save our lives, because under the conditions of the crisis, economic or health survival is essential. In the area of economy, we defended three key macroeconomic parameters. We've defended the inflation rate and we have macroeconomic stability that says inflation will range from 2 to 2.4% over this period. We defended the level of unemployment that is at 9% as never in history, as if it weren't an economic crisis and we were defending GDP growth. We defended it with fiscal measures. You know, today in the world you have nations, you have countries that do it from the primary show. Serbia's results are even higher because we did it from real fiscal sources. When you look at what we continue to do in the next period of time, we actually want to make this budget rebalance to make our GDP bigger in the next time period. How do we do that? Simple. We invest in public consumption, i.e. in personal consumption. This in public consumption is a clean Kensian model of public works and investment in public spending, but you're right when you say about multipliers on the Committee on Budgets for too long, we've been having a debate for two years. Of course, Minister, that multipliers also work on personal consumption by saying, the classic definition without any dilemma and any interpretation of us to raise aggregate demand. When they raise the aggregate demand, they lead to an investment growth. As investments grow, GDP is also automatically growing. Simplely, it is no more to dispute about the functioning of multipliers in public consumption and personal consumption. In fact, we raise public investment in three ways, public investments that are to 7.2% as never in the Republic of Serbia's budget, investments that come from abroad and which are the largest in this part of Europe, are double the size of all other countries in the Western Balkans that have foreign investments and, of course, we raise investments that come from the economy sector and the population of Serbian citizens. In the area of personal consumption, we are actually taking on the burden of citizens' social responsibility and economy in the state of Serbia by expanding the scope of different measures, you have talked about it today, MPs have said that we are not deluding, that I am not talking about, a package of 270 billion dinars or 17.2% of GDP in three packages, taking over the social burden on citizens from Serbian citizens to the state of Serbia. We have unusually high economic growth from five to six percent and this economic growth is due to the fact that Serbia is growing faster today. Other European countries will now grow from four to five percent, but given the decline they had in 2020, they have a negative growth rate compared to the pre-crisis 2019, Serbia has real growth in 2021, and in 2020, we will be leaders again. And to return to the key issues that are being raised today and the polemics that are being led, the deficit and the public debt. Of course when we talk about the deficit, we're talking about the fact that it's just a tool a year ago and during the discussion of the 2021 budget and today I'm saying that the deficit doesn't matter at all. Three percent of the deficit budget doesn't mean anything. Today we defend macroeconomic parameters by deficit. If I were to return to Serbia's 60 per cent level, it's a great thing that Serbia is not in charge of over 60%, but when we talk about the degree of duty, then I'd do a digression, so I'm starting to mind when it comes to mastriction and 60% of the level of duty. The whole Mastrict package consists of four parts and an inflation rate of 1.5% growth of 5% of the 3% deficit, and when you take 5% and 3%, then the public debt rate is 60%. It's a mastrict. By 2016, 200 times the official mastrict was violated. Today probably 300 and 400 times, no one takes care of the mastrict. It is good for Serbia to be below 60%, but both 70% and 65% and 80% do not really affect because in times of economic crisis things look completely different. Why is it good to be below 60%? There are two reasons. The first reason, because it creates the resources that are added to us during the time ahead. None of us can say that the crisis will last another day, three years or five months. No one knows how many new expensive drugs we're going to have to buy, no one knows how many new packages we're going to have to help do, and when the crown stops because the economic crisis keeps working. The second thing, when we have a small debt, is that we are in a smaller euro, both in financial and business, and that these scissors that are expressed today in many countries, whose public debts go 100%, are 150% different from us. I am kind of happy when I look at Serbia today investing its financial resources in the growth of the personal consumption of its citizens, as well as the citizens of neighbouring countries. When I say that, I don't mean Kosovo and Metohija, because we show, Mr. Minister, how strong and powerful we can be in this part of Europe. objectively, we were always a strong and powerful state. It's happened sometimes for years and centuries that because of our leaders and our ways, we haven't realized it, but when we're unique, when we know what we're doing, it's always easier for us. Of course, today seems quite simple and quite natural when you have a leader like Alexander Vukic that Serbia today looks different and more powerful, but we should never forget a time in which it did not seem so because we Serbs are able to regain what is difficult, to do things that are not good for the Serbian people. The criticism that comes in principle today is not about what we do today, it's not about our measures, it's not about what the results are, it's about what starts with the sentence - what happens if it is. And there will be economic problems, only perhaps at the beginning of the economic crisis, will there be protection of the domestic market. The world economy will look completely different than it looks today. We will have Asia that is not in crisis today, but when that second time comes, these other problems we are already creating clear preconditions today for Serbia to look easier. Ladies and gentlemen, today we're actually buying our own money for economic growth and development, the money we've earned. We buy both health and economic growth with our money. We also buy weapons as rarely when in history. Ladies and gentlemen, we are making a better country for us and our children today. That is why I will vote for this budget and budget rebalance, because it is only one step towards strong and powerful Serbia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5703	Thank you. The word is Jelena Kocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5704	Dear President, honourable ministers, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would first express my great gratitude to you, honourable ministers, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President, Alexander Vukic, for the responsible policy of our country and for caring for all categories of population in these difficult times when the whole world continues to fight this vicious virus. The year after us has been very difficult, the hardest for those who have lost family members, difficult for our healthcare workers who work day and night in suitors separated from their families, difficult for our pensioners who are our most sensitive category of the population and who we have a moral obligation to care about, but also for all of us who have been more than a year in our daily fear for our loved ones. What gives us strength and encourages us to fight in these difficult times is the fact that Serbia today is a stable country, that we have a responsible government and that we have responsible President Alexander Vukic, who has the health of our citizens and better life in the first place. We are talking today about budget rebalancing for 2021, which is aimed at easing the effects caused by the Kovid 19 virus pandemic, as well as increasing capital investment primarily in the area of building health infrastructure. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a third package of total values of around two billion euros to mitigate the negative effects of the coronary virus pandemic that included our hosts, hit our tourist workers, all businessmen, and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you that the total value of the previous two packages was paid to about six billion euros last year, and that one-time aid of 100 euros received 6.2 million of our citizens. And this year, the state takes care of its citizens, and in May and November, all full-time citizens will receive 30 euros, or 60 euros in total, in June, the unemployed will receive another 60 euros, while our pensioners will receive another 60 euros in September, which means that our pensioners will total 110 euros. These measures will also include caterers and tourist workers and carriers, and the newspaper will help with the previous two packages, as the minimum earnings will now be paid for employees of large enterprises. The previous government has ruined our country's reputation in the region, in the world, but also in our citizens who have lost confidence in the system, lost confidence in the institutions, lost confidence in the state, and today it remains very unusual that the situation has changed, that today we have a responsible president who is at the most difficult times with us, and while other countries continue to have problems getting vaccines, we in Serbia have enough vaccines to protect the health of all our inhabitants, but also to help our friends in the region. I often talk to our citizens on the ground, with those who have received vaccines, but also with those who have not yet been because they are in a dilemma about whether they are doing it because of the various signs and comments of unprofessional people on social networks. I will tell you just one example, in a conversation with one of my fellow citizens from Leskovec, to my question - did he receive a vaccine because he belongs to the sensitive categories of the population, he replied to me that he is not in a dilemma because his friends living in one of our neighbouring countries did not receive the vaccine because there is no vaccine for all residents there, there is only for certain categories, while he finds it very strange that we in Serbia have four kinds of vaccines, that we can choose from which producer we will get the vaccine and that our president is constantly appealing and asking Serbian citizens to protect his health and this is just one example that shows that our citizens, our pensioners who have survived hard times when they were out of work, when the shut-off companies are not used to have the support in their country, are not used to having a difficult time president standing with their people. In this situation, the fact that Serbia today is a prominent state, that our president has a reputation thanks to the good foreign policy he is leading, which is also the fact that the production of a four-valent flu vaccine will be launched in our Torlak, and that our country next to France and England will be the only country to produce this vaccine. Investment in equipment alone will be 100m euros, and in four years, when we start producing this vaccine, we will be able to stand on the line and the most developed countries. The difficult economic reforms that have been implemented since 2014 have resulted in us having a surplus in the budget for the last four years. From that surplus, we are building and maintaining Serbia today. From that surplus, we built two hoofs of hospitals, in Batajnica and in Kruševec, in just four months, and we must admit that it is rare for the state to boast that in just four months one hospital can be built so fast, efficient and quality. Today, about 600 workers, doctors, nurses and other medical staff work in the Kovid hospital in Kraševec. There are employees and doctors from Leskovec where I come from, so I can say that this hospital is of immeasurable importance because many lives have been saved there, not only by my fellow citizens, but also by patients from Nis, Vranj, from all over southern Serbia. The important news for our citizens is that the budget rebalance continues to plan to invest in health infrastructure, and soon we expect to build another new Kovid hospital in Novi Sad. Our citizens who had left Serbia years ago and often boasted on social networks that they were better off somewhere over when these pandemics started with the virus all moved back faster. Serbia was happy to welcome them, as we had hospitals built in Serbia, equipment started coming from all sides, we had respirators arriving. Last year, 50,500 more employees were registered and exports increased during 2020. Serbia is one of the few countries that, despite the terrible economic crisis that the whole world has been facing, raised wages in the public sector, raised the price of minimum earnings, increased pensions, which means that even at the most difficult times we have shown that we are with our people. The rebalancing has also allocated additional funds to farmers, up by 5.5 billion dinars. Our country is fighting on two fronts today, in health and in business. At the head of the first is our Prime Minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic, while the economic part is led by our President Aleksandar Vukic, who participated in the creation of these aid packages for our citizens. On both fronts and fronts, we are achieving phenomenal results today, because today the whole world is talking about Serbia and the way we are fighting the coronary virus and the success that we have in vaccination, and I am sure it will also be when it comes to the economic measures that we bring today. So, I will be pleased to support the budget rebalancing in front of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5705	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bratimir Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5706	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are facing today the budget rebalance and the concubines are slowly wondering – what is going to happen in April of the month in rebalancing, as if the budget rebalancing is a red letter and can predict what life will look like by the end of the year. Since we know what a monster is and what an epidemic has ruled the whole world, no one has been able to predict in what proportions and how long this is going to last and from here it's perfectly normal and natural to bring the budget into line with the needs of life. Among other things, Germany itself has joined the budget rebalancing before the Republic of Serbia and there is nothing new. When we look at just how much money is invested in the first and second package, which is the amount, we will easily agree that the budget rebalance is more than necessary and necessary, and when we see for what purposes and for what purposes this means will be used then it is fully justified to adopt one rebalancing. So, in the first and second package aimed at the economy of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which only thanks to these measures that were put through all the troubles and all the troubles that hit us in 2020, which amounted to 704 billion dinars or six billion euros. The third package planned and envisioned by this budget is worth 257 billion dinars or over 2.5 billion euros, and these funds will be used, I will specify for what purposes they will be spent and what they are intended for, and what is most important in all this is that public debt will not change and will not exceed 60% of GDP to the state of Serbia. The planned deficit in the first quarter was 80 billion. It was made with 23 billion, which means we've had almost 60 billion revenues compared to the planned funds, and that's a good indicator and a good result. When we talk about the participation of public debt in the social product, we will only remember what it looks like in developed countries of Europe that are at least known and are. One Germany has over 80% of the public debt in GDP, not to mention Greece crossing over 200%, Italy 170%, Spain 150%, Montenegro over 100%. These are all indicators of where Serbia is today. Investment in capital investments for this year is intended for more than 430 billion or 7.2% of GDP which has never happened in Serbia's history, which is one good direction and a good indicator of how our leadership behaves and leads the country to Serbia and in which it leads. Total aid to businesses and citizens is 17.6% of the country's GDP in Serbia, and now what these funds are defined for and how they are used. Four highways are currently being worked in Serbia, and it is planned to start building four more highways this year. In the course of this year, there will be several fast traffic stations, a fast track between Belgrade-Novi Sad, the construction of a covid vaccine factory, the construction of a plant for the production of a four-valent flu vaccine and a country of Serbia among the three countries in the world dealing with this production, and the volume of investment will be over 100, 150m euros, the start of construction of a metro in Belgrade, the 2020-2020 programme, where more than 14 billion euros were planned, and infrastructure projects such as water, sewerage and water treatment plants in local self-government. Construction of clinical centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Novi Pazar. The clinic center in Nis has been completed. Construction of a Kovid hospital in Novi Sad, next to two made in Kruševec and Batajnica. Construction of several hospitals in Vranja, Piroth, Prokuplje, Leskovac, and when we add a brief notice from the respected minister how much Public Investment Office invests in new homes of health, new hospitals and school building, then it is clear what kind of picture lives in Serbia today and how and in which direction Serbia is building and developing. A new package of measures envisions assistance for autocarers, where 600 euros each vehicle will be determined within six months. City hotels, caterers and tourism are also providing assistance from this third aid package. Assistance for small businesses in terms of three times a half of minimum earnings, assistance for Serbian citizens twice 30 euros, plus 50 euros per pensioner, assistance to all unemployed at 60 euros, assistance to the Serbian KIM community for each member of the community at 100 euros, counting children, plus 100 euros for the unemployed. So it is a clear picture that Serbia is developing and growing in those proportions that corresponds to Serbian citizens. Those who are unhappy and wish Serbia to look different, we cannot help it, we simply help Serbian citizens feel that way. The increase in the budget for ecology is over 100%. For all these capital investments, there is allocated funds and for the help of businesses and citizens, the funds are fully secured and what is most important, I must once again point out that public debt participation in GDP will not exceed 60% of these, which is a great thing. I can't even think, God forbid, if this lowlife had hit us during the yellow government, what would have happened to the economy, what would have happened to the citizens of Serbia, half of us would have died of trouble and trouble. This is a real example of how the state of Serbia is run under the leadership of President Aleksandr Vukic and our Government of the Republic of Serbia. Long live Serbia and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5707	Thank you. National MP Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5708	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs are ahead of us with the first budget rebalance. When we voted in favour of the 2021 budget, that budget was prepared for the worst possible scenarios, given that we are in a crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus. This rebalancing is as we had the opportunity to hear in the opening statement, a strong response to the crisis and can be divided into three wholes. When the crisis started with the pandemic of the coronary virus, we didn't wave to billions we don't have, on the contrary, sober and realistic in all hysteria, we looked at the situation and took the best aid package of businesses and society we had the opportunity to do. This rebalancing can be divided into three wholes. The first part refers to a package of aid measures for businesses and citizens of around 257 billion dinars. And if our economy was locked down in 2020 for 45 days, we had two aid packages for the economy and for the citizens. Every full-time citizen who wanted it received 100 euros in aid from the state's dinar equivalent, and employers were delayed or reduced in taxes and contributions, and three minimum earnings were paid. The third package of measures foresees that in addition to incentives, every adult citizen who wishes to do so pays twice 30 euros in dinar equivalent, pensioners additional 50 euros, and unemployed persons 60 euros. Every month by the end of the year, some kind of aid will be realised to the state, as well as to the citizens. The application for grants to citizens begins on 28 April this year. We're doing all this to preserve a stable economy and open our economy. The second part refers to the implementation of the "Serbia 20-25" plan and represents investments in large capital projects that drag our economy forward. 14 billion dinars will be invested in road and rail infrastructure. The last 30 years have not been allocated this much money to invest in large capital projects. Four highways are currently being built, and by the end of the year we are expected to open on four new highways. Eight highways will be built in Serbia by the end of the year. As I come from the municipality of Surcin, I can't, not to mention that two large capital projects are being built and expected in this municipality, one is currently continuing to work on the Milos Veli highway, on a section from Surcin to New Belgrade, where the works have already started, and another big project that awaits us is building a national stadium. The stadium will be among the most beautiful in Europe. It is not clear to many citizens exactly how large capital projects affect everyday life, just this example in Surcin where we expect these two large capital projects to be seen on this case. By passing two highways, by the arrival of a national stadium, property in Surcin is expected to collect more than 30%. Increased traffic is expected, both people and goods, thus affecting the better standard of living for every citizen of Surcin. The third part of this rebalancing is aimed at higher investment in the health sector. Investment in health will be more than 1 billion euros over the previous year. We know that health has no price and that we can develop uninterruptedly as a society and as a state, and to develop all these projects that we are talking about here today, it is necessary and it is a prerequisite for us to be healthy. In the previous year, our country built two hoofs of hospitals, and this year, we are expected to build a new Kovid hospital in Novi Sad. Also, what we are looking forward to is building a factory for the production of vaccines. Our country will be among the few who will be in a position to produce a vaccine against the coronary virus. Also, investment in the Tolak Institute and the start of production of a four-valent vaccine against seasonal flu is a huge improvement. I am a biochemist, and unfortunately many authorities have pushed science aside before us, and today, much more resources are being allocated from the budget for science itself, but also for science infrastructure. In addition to the construction of two new hospitals, which we have built and the third one announced in Novi Sad, we are expected to be reconstructed and renovated by many homes of health and hospitals throughout Serbia, as well as the completion of works on the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia. Despite the crisis caused by the pandemic of the corona virus, we have decent results and the deficit in the first quarter is much less than expected. That's exactly what I was saying about the 2021 budget itself being prepared for much scarier scenarios. We have prevented such catastrophic scenarios from being responsible for economic policy. With good incentives during 2020, we prevented mass layoffs as we could see across Europe, that mass layoffs were happening. On the contrary, we managed to reduce unemployment in our country, and on the other hand, to increase the average profit. Thanks to a larger number of factories, we can expect GDP growth by 6% by the end of the year and be one of the best, if not the best in Europe. We had an inflow of 2.9 billion euros from foreign direct investment, which is almost twice as much as all the countries in the region when they add together. What we care very much about is that our public debt does not exceed 60% of GDP. In this crisis, the state has been very responsible to take on most of the burden on itself in order to preserve jobs and our production capacities, but after the end of this crisis we have to continue to develop and work even more so that our economy can continue to develop. We had a chance to hear how much investment there was in the capital projects in 2010, and how much they are today. The Serbian Progressive Party headed by Aleksandra Vukic in 2013 when it took power, has brought a number of unpopular measures to consolidate public finances. Salaries and pensions have been reduced and a ban on employment has been imposed. We didn't have mass layoffs back then, in 2013 even though many wanted to. Aleksandar Vukic then said that the average profit in the private sector will be much higher than the average profit in the state sector, which has happened. In these six years, we have consolidated finance, strengthened the private sector, brought foreign investors, invested in agriculture and large capital projects. We've invested resources wisely in what brings our economy forward. We would not be able to overcome this crisis today if Aleksandar Vukic had not, when he took over the government, been responsible for leading the state, and the people see everything and knows that he recognizes who is really working in the interests of the people, and who works exclusively in the interests of his own interests for personal gain, and he shows it unequivocally in every election. Those who today are on the verge of political life and whose 3% rate is high on the scale, they laughed at the measures we had brought in the previous years. It is easy for Dragan Gilas to make politics clear today when there are over 619m euros in his accounts. I would remind the citizens that the 619m-euro budget is for one of the aid packages. It took so much money for our country to single out every adult citizen for a hundred euros. They, like him, were not referring to the citizens, but solely to their personal wealth. I will support this set of laws in the voting day, and I would also appeal to all citizens on this occasion to be vaccinated, because unlike many citizens in Europe, we are in a position to vaccinate. We have enough vaccines available and we have a choice of four vaccines. I think every citizen should take advantage of this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5709	Thank you. Since there are no more registered MPs on the lists, before the conclusion of a principled and uniform search, I ask if they want a word of who has more time, presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, committee or proposing? It is proposed by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5710	Thank you very much, dear Mr. Dacic, honourable Members of the people, respected citizens of Serbia. First of all, I want to thank you for the very constructive dialogue we've been having today, which is about budget rebalancing. Once again, with this budget rebalancing, we continue the strong fight against the pandemic of the coronary virus, we continue to fight for our economy, not only through the third aid package, but through never more capital investment in our infrastructure and continue to fight for Serbia's citizens' living standards. What I'd like to complete today's debate, if you'll excuse me, is the first time I've dated this data. So here we have prepared, and I will talk about it more tomorrow, just to show it well – the total financial aid of the Serbian state per individual for this year and for the past year. Here, look, let me start with tourism and hospitality. If you remember, last year's tourism employees had four full minimum earnings to help from the state, plus two times 60% of minimum earnings. I will remind you, the minimum profit is 32,000 dinars, so about 250 euros, and my guess is, given that 6,200,000 people in Serbia took 100 euros in aid, that they all also took a 100-euro aid last year, this year they will take twice 30 euros, and also this year all employees in the tourism and catering sector have three times 50% minimum earnings and another two full minimum earnings. Dear citizens of Serbia, this means that every employee in the area of tourism and hospitality received 269.195 dinars this year and last year. So over 2,000 euros each individual was helped by the state during the coronary pandemic of the virus. These other columns are businessmen – 174.806 dinars. So, as you know, last year, three full minimum earnings, two times 60% minimum earnings, this year three times 50% minimum earnings, and my guess was that they all took 100 euros' aid, and this year they're going to take two times 30 euros' help. So 1,500 euros almost help every businessman, from entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, from the Serbian state during the pandemic of the coronary virus. The third column all of Serbia's full-year citizens, therefore, all of them, or the largest number of them who wanted to, received 100 euros last year's aid, twice 30 euros this year, is a total of 18,800 dinars. Our oldest fellow pensioners, 399.0 dinars, last year other than 100 euros, had the opportunity to get from the state and twice the one-time aid of 4,000 and 5,000 dinars, this year except twice 30 euros, our oldest citizens will also receive an additional 50 euros in September of this year, so, 3rol0, slightly less than 300 euros each pensioner's support of the state in 2020 and 2021. The unemployed are getting 60 euros from the state this year, and I was also assuming they took 100 euros last year and this year twice 30 euros, so each unemployed in two years is 25,960 dinars, so 200 euros in aid from the state. Serbs from Kosovo are getting help this year, I said, 100 euros for each, including children, 200 euros for the unemployed. They are also recipients and can be recipients of assistance if they apply and were for 100 euros last year, this year for twice 60 euros. You have at the end of an independent artist, so another category that we believe is at stake with this pandemic of the Coronal Virus, a total of 151,800 dinars. So, respected citizens of Serbia, when you look at these figures, this is a huge help to Serbian citizens, huge help to employees in different sectors, huge help to our economy, huge help to all those who were less or more threatened by this pandemic of the Crown virus, but this paper here, these figures here are proof and confirmation of how different the Republic of Serbia is today, how serious we are, how much with all kinds of measures, with money, because of the healthy public finances, because of what we have been able to achieve after President Vukic started heavy reforms in 2014, that we have both a reserve and money in the budget, after four years of surpluses that we've been told are wrong and not needed. Here, this is proof of how strong our country is, this is proof of how capable we were to help each individual. The numbers are huge, but this is the least we could do, this is the success of all Serbian citizens. So thank you very much for understanding and for the budget rebalance for this year. We go with the third aid package, we go with never more investment in our infrastructure, into our health care, in getting medicines, in all that is necessary to raise the standard of living for Serbian citizens, to raise our infrastructure and to keep Serbia winning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-21-0.u5711	Thank you. Since we've exhausted the list of speakers, I would also like to thank the promoter. We'll continue tomorrow. I am concluding a principled and unique search of the bill. I will not be here tomorrow morning because I will be in the delegation of the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, who will also be Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Minister Vulin at a meeting of the Council for Co-operation with Republika Srpska. I'll be back in the afternoon debate. If there is, and there is an amendment to these two last laws, then we're going to change something, we're going to have to change in the vote, that means we're going to vote on the first four points of the agenda, not all six, or that we're going to have to discuss the fifth and sixth points of the agenda on Tuesday, in particular. Thank you.
